Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 LE  C'PY
Report No. 2995-SL
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 26, 1980
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division 4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =    Le 1.05
Le 1.00       =    US$0.95
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures in this report are metric
1 metric ton         =    0.98 long ton = 37 bushels
1 hectare (ha)       =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)    =    0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ACRE   - Adaptive Crop Research and Extension
BADEA  -  Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
CARE   -  Cooperative American Relief Everywhere
DOPC   - Daru Oil Palm Company
FAO    -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FFC    -  Farmers Finance Company
IADP   -  Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IDA    -  International Development Association
IFAD   -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFCC   -  Institut Francais du Cafe, du Cacao et Autres Plantes Stimulantes
IITA   -  International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
IRHO   -  Institut de Recherche pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
MAF    - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MDEP   - Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
MOW    - Ministry of Works
NCDB   - National Cooperative Development Bank
NDB    - National Development Bank
NUC    - Njala University College
ODA    -  Overseas Development Association
PEMSU  -  Planning, Evaluation, and Monitoring Services Unit
PESU   -  Project Evaluation and Services Unit
RMWA   - Regional Mission in Western Africa (World Bank Office)
RRRS   -  Rokupr Rice Research Station
SLPMB  -  Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
UNDP   - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development Project III
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.      THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .............................    1
A.   Background .................................... .      1
B.  Agricultural Sector .....                               2
C.   Agricultural Institutions and Services .........    3
II.      THE  PROJECT  AREA  ............. .  ....................... .  6
A.   Main Characteristics           .      .      ...... .    6
B.   DOPC and FFC ....              ......         ..... .    8
C.   The IDA Integrated Agricultural Development
Projects ....................................      9
III.      THE PROJECT        ............................             12
A.   Background . .. .. ................................   12
B.   Summary Description   ........        ............ .   12
C.   Detailed Features          .      .     .......... .   14
D. Cost Estimates                   ....   19
E.   Financing Arrangements .....      ...................   19
F. Procurement                     ...   21
G.   Disbursements ...... .....                ........ .   22
H.   Accounts and Audits ..... .                           23
IV.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................   24
A.   Organization and Management           . . .           24
B.  Agricultural Services.... .    26
C.   Credit and Input Supply ....................... .     28
D.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation         ...    31
V.      TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS ...........   32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. Burer, Drayton and Ms. Mackrandilal (IDA) and
Messrs. Kellond, Olivin and Weatherell (Consultants), which visited
Sierra Leone from January 25 to February 21, 1980. Mr. Hallgrimson
(RMWA) supervised and advised on the project's road component, and
Mrs. Kimaro (Consultant) assisted the mission during its stay in
Sierra Leone.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (con'd)
Page No.
VI. DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .....  36
A. Demand ............................................  36
B. Marketing ........................................  37
C. Prices ...........................................  37
D. Financial Analysis ...............................  39
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................     41
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................  44
Tables in Text
Table 1.  Summary of Project Cost
Table 2.  Proposed Financing Plan
Table 3.  Estimated Yield Increases
Table 4.  Production Increases at Full Development
Table 5.  Farmgate Prices
Table 6.  Net Financial Return to Farmers
ANNEXES
Annex 1.  Summary of Costs
Annex 2.  Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 3a Projected Cash Flow - Farmers' Finance Company
Annex 3b Projected Profit and Loss Statement - Farmers  Finance Company
Annex 4a Projected Cash Flow - Daru Oil Palm Company
Annex 4b Projected Profit and Loss Statement - Daru Oil Palm Company
Annex 5.  Total and Incremental Crop Production
Annex 6.  Crop Budgets and Farm Models
Annex 7.  Government Cash Flow
Annex 8.  Economic Analysis
Annex 9.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
MAPS AND CHARTS
IBRD Map No. 14872. Project Area
IBRD Chart No. 20551. Organization of Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry
Chart 1. Implementation Schedule



SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      The Republic of Sierra Leone has an area of 71.740 km2 (28,000 sq
miles), with a population in 1980 of about 3.2 million. The population growth
rate is about 2.5%. Population density varies considerably, from 29 persons/km2
in the North to about 585 persons/km2 in the Western area. About 10% of the
population live in Greater Freetown. Nearly 80% of the population live in
rural areas and derive their livelihood from agriculture and related activities,
1-02      The 1978/79 GDP was estimated at Le 932 million (US$888 million at
current market prices). Average per capita income was about Le 250 (US$238)
and unevenly distributed across sectors and regions. Rural incomes are far
below the national average, and within agriculture the highest incomes are in
the East and the lowest in the North. GNP growth, satisfactory between 1969
and 1974, with an annual average of 4.0%, has experienced a sharp downturn
since 1974. and the per capita real income has been declining.
1.03      The economy is characterized by two main and largely contrasting
sectors.  The modern mining sector, dominated by the diamond industry, has
provided a major source of Government revenues and export earnings in the
past. However, the share of mining in export earnings have fallen since 1974,
owing to the cessation of iron ore mining and a decrease in the volume of
production from diamond mining. While the sector continues to contribute
about 10% of GDP and 60% of export earnings, it cannot be expected to provide
large amounts of new employment. The agricultural sector remains largely
underdeveloped and employs about three-quarters of the population. The
contribution of agriculture, forestry and fisheries to both GDP and export
earnings is about 35%. The export crops are dominated by coffee and cocoa,
and the recent world price rises for these commodities have helped to boost
export earnings. In comparison with crop production, the relative contribution
of fisheries, livestock and forestry remains small.
1.04      The country has experienced an increasing trade deficit, mainly
because exports have grown more slowly than imports, the trade deficit in-
creased from Le 22 million (US$20.9 million) in 1977 to Le 65 million (US$60.9
million) in 1978. There was a slight improvement in 1979 when the deficit
amounted to Le 53 million (US$50.5 million). Food imports comprise about 18%
(1976/77) of the total import bill- Given the projected downward trend for
coffee and cocoa export prices combined with declining mining activity and the
rising import demand from an expanding population, the trade deficit can be
expected to increase further. Assistance to the country in meeting its
external debt adjustment problems is being provided by the Paris Club and the
International Monetary Fund.



-2-
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.05      The agricultural sector has a major role to play in improving
the present economic situation of the country. The resource base is good.
Most of the country has an annual average rainfall of at least 2,500 mm. The
soils and climatic conditions are suitable for a variety of high potential
agricultural production systems which can improve the income levels of the
rural poor as well as expand production of export crops and of food crops for
import substitution. The Northern half of the country has a long dry season
and supports a system of shifting crop cultivation in which rice, groundnuts
and sorghum are the principal crops; here the rural economy is basically a
subsistence economy. The Southern and Eastern parts have rainfall and climate
suitable for the cultivation of tree crops, especially cocoa, coffee and
oil palm.
1.06      About 645,000 ha or 13% of the arable land is cultivated annually,
which implies a fallow period of about seven years. The area of land under
cultivation drops to about 6.5% in the North. Rice is the staple food,
supplying in terms of calories, about 90% of the rural population's consump-
tion of cereals. Each year it takes up over 70% of the cultivated area and is
grown by over 80% of the farmers. Growth of rice production currently aver-
ages 2% annually but attained 8% for about two years in the mid-seventies,
because of increased swamp rice production and as a response to higher prices.
Domestic production in 1978/79 was about 308,000 tons. Over the past 20 years
imports of rice averaged about 30,000 tons annually, but in 1979 rice imports
reached 68,000 tons.
1.07      Coffee, cocoa and palm kernels are the main export crops, and are
also the primary sources of cash income for the rural population. There is
some potential for coconut and rubber growing. Rubber development is limited
to a few medium-sized government estates and some small private farms; two
new private farms recently started production. The rural economies of the
South and East are much more cash-oriented, with produce being sold for export
or consumption in the nearby mining areas, as compared with the subsistence
agriculture of the north.
1.08      Tree crop production is concentrated in the Eastern Province, with a
small amount also in the Southern Province. Annual production of coffee ranges
from 10,000 tons to 4,000 tons (1979/80), and on the basis of average yields
of 0.28 tons per ha it is estimated that the present area is about 40,000
ha. Cocoa production averages about 6,000 tons from an area of about
50,000 ha. In 1979/80 exports included 9,500 tons of cocoa (worth US$29.6
million) and 10,000 tons of coffee (worth US$36.2 million). Most of the
coffee and cocoa plantations are over 20 years old and are poorly main-
tained. Use of fertilizer, pesticide and insecticide is minimal and yields
are correspondingly low. No major rehabilitation or replanting programs
have been initiated and consequently coffee exports have declined and
cocoa exports have stagnated. The IDA-financed Second Integrated Agricultural
Development Project (Credit 568/Loan 1138-SL), had a small cocoa development
component for the Eastern Region (para 2.11). In addition, about 40,000 tons
of palm oil is currently produced for domestic consumption and over 16,000 tons
of palm kernels for export; almost all of the production is from wild palm
groves, with most of the oil extracted in the traditional way by the rural
family. To meet domestic demand, about US$3.0 million worth of animal and
vegetable oils are imported annually.



-3-
The National Development Strategy
1.09      The National Development Plan 1974/75-78/79 assigned high priority
to agriculture and emphasized its development as essential for achieving
long-term economic growth, balanced regional growth, and equitable income
distribution. The plan called for an overall growth of the agricultural
sector of 5.4 percent per year, self-sufficiency in rice, improved nutrition,
and increased production of major export crops. These goals were to be
achieved through improvements in agricultural services, and the implementation
of a production-oriented price package. The main vehicle was to be the
planning and development of integrated agricultural development programs and
projects (IADPs) covering the country's main agricultural areas. Because of
institutional and financial constraints, the plan proved far too ambitious.
But there have been significant achievements in that, by mid-1980, it is
anticipated that some 21,000 km2, or 29% of the country, will have been
covered by IADPs: Eastern IADP and Northern IADP (financed by the Bank and
IDA), Magbosi IADP (financed by IFAD and appraised and administered by the
Bank), and Koinadugu IADP (financed by the EEC). Another three are scheduled
to begin in 1981: Kambia/Port Loko, Moyamba, and Bo/Pujehun. Together with
the proposed extension of the Eastern and Northern IADPs these projects will
cover about 80% of the country (see map following Annex III).
1.10      The Government is now preparing a second plan.  While a draft
is not yet available, discussions with officials suggest that agricultural
priorities will remain basically unchanged. Emphasis is expected to continue
to be placed on IADPs and the strengthening of central services. Expansion
of the cultivated area, irrigation, and soil conservation are recognized
objectives, as is the raising of incomes of the rural poor. Some uncertainty,
however, surrounds the Government policy towards mechanical cultivation,
which is mainly concentrated in the Boli lands of the North, and the economic
benefits of which so far seem questionable. The Ministry of Development and
Economic Planning is receiving assistance from the UNDP in preparing the
second plan as a whole. To supplement this effort, the IDA US$2.5 million
Technical Assistance Project approved in December 1979 (CR 970-SL) provides
assistance to ministries in priority development fields. Under this project,
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) is expected to employ two
long-term advisers--a senior economic planner and a project planner--and to
obtain financing for special consultant services and studies.
C. Agricultural Institutions and Services
1.11      The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) comprises two
divisions: The Agriculture Division, headed by a Chief Agriculturalist,
and the Forestry Division, headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests. The
Agriculture Division is the largest and is responsible for extension; produce
inspection, pest and phytosanitary control; training and research coordina-
tion; agricultural engineering and mechanical cultivation; and planning,
monitoring and evaluation of projects. It would be the primary institution
concerned with the proposed project. There are 5 agricultural regions, in
each of which MAF's activities are headed by a Principal Agricultural Officer
(PAO), supported by an Agricultural Officer (AO), Agricultural Instructors



- 4 -
(AI's) and Agro-Technicians (AT's). At Headquarters in Freetown, the Chief
Agriculturalist (CA) is assisted by a Deputy Chief Agriculturalist (DCA) and
four Assistant Chief Agriculturalists (ACA's).
1.12      In general, MAF's extension activities are ineffective because of
low salaries, poor mobility, shortage of funds and low morale. The externally
financed Integrated Agricultural Development Projects (IADP's) carry out
parallel extension work in the same administrative areas. Their project
managers enjoy greater autonomy than PAO-s and deploy extension workers who
are better paid, better trained and possess greater mobility to reach farmers
who receive back-up services of input supplies and credit. This discrepancy
in working conditions has led to a growing conflict between the 2 services.
Further confusion results from the dual practice of seconding extension staff
from MAF to the IADP, and of recruiting other personnel directly into the
project. Seconded staff continue to enjoy retirement and other social bene-
fits of their civil servant status, are answerable to MAF, and can be trans-
ferred at short notice to other locations. Government has committed itself
to correcting this situation, and, in its last National Development Plan,
included some proposals for improving MAF's extension services with increased
financial and logistical support. The Plan also included provision for
improved input delivery, credit and marketing services, research and planning.
In practice, however, because of limited financial support, only partial
implementation of these proposals has occurred. The project would address the
main issues of integrating project and non-project staff under a proposed
restructured regional MAE. However the wider issues of reorganization and
strengthening of MAF as a whole would be addressed in the proposed Fifth
Agricultural Development Project currently being prepared for submission for
IDA funding.
Marketing
1.13      The major agricultural marketing institution is the Sierra Leone
Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB), which is a part of the Ministry of Trade
and Industries. The SLPMB, in operation since 1949, markets the country's
main export crops and has also temporarily taken over the functions of the
dissolved Rice Corporation which was recently dissolved by Government because
of inefficiency. Producer prices for export crops are fixed by the SLPMB in
consultation with the Government. Purchasing, grading, storage and transpor-
tation to central collection points are the responsibilites of Licensed
Buying Agents (LBA's) who are paid on the basis of the producer price,fixed
overheads and profit margins. The government levies export duties on the
basis of a fixed percentage of f.o.b. prices. These taxes are high, 35-40%
on coffee and 35% on cocoa; they had been lowered in early 1979, but were
subsequently raised in response to budgetary problems. An Agricultural
Development Fund administered by the SLPMB has been established with a total
value of Le 10 million by witholding 8.5% of the f.o.b. prices. A portion
of this Fund is to be invested in large-scale cocoa and coffee plantation
development through joint equity holdings with external plantation companies.
In the early 1960's, the SLPMB embarked on a similar venture which proved a
costly failure. Another portion of the fund is being used for a pilot cocoa
and coffee rehabilitation program for smallholders, which involves financing
for spraying equipment, pesticides, and consultants to provide training in
improved techniques.



-5-
Rural Credit
1.14      Two national credit institutions are concerned with development
financing: the National Development Bank (NDB), which has provided credit
mainly to marketing cooperatives; and the National Co-operative Development
Bank (NCDB), which has increased its lending to agriculture, but concentrates
on large farmers. The commercial banks prefer to concentrate their lending on
the urban commercial sector, where risks are more controllable. The Bank of
Sierra Leone introduced a credit guarantee scheme to encourage lending to
farmers by the commercial banks, but with little effect so far. The only
institution in the country that is providing credit for agricultural produc-
tion to a significant number of small farmers is the Farmer's Finance Company
(FFC), created under the IDA-financed EIADP II. Efforts are being made to
provide credit along similar lines in the other integrated agricultural
development projects. However, there is a larger need to examine the credit
system in agriculture as a whole. A study on cooperative rural credit is
currently being carried out by the Central Bank of Sierra Leone and an Ameri-
can Cooperative Group (ACDI). A more detailed and wider focused study is
about to be carried out under funding from the recently approved IDA Technical
Assistance Project (CR 970-SL), proposals from which are likely to be incorpo-
rated in the proposed Fifth Agricultural Development Project (para 1.12).
Research
1.15      Research is carried out at the Rokupr Rice Research Station (RRRS)
and the Njala University College (NUC). There has been insufficient coordina-
tion between these units and MAF in terms of national objectives, though
individual programs may have been well-conceived. RRRS is financially suppor-
ted by UNDP and the West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA), and
there is collaborative research with the Fertilizer Development Center,
Alabama, USA; the Justus Liebig University of Giessen, Federal Republic of
Germany; and the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in
Ibadan, Nigeria. A major innovation took place in early 1980, when the USAID-
financed Adaptive Crop Research and Extension (ACRE) project became opera-
tional at NUC. ACRE concentrates on food crop research using on-farm trials
(para 4.13). No systematic tree crop research is being carried out.
Agricultural Training
1.16      The procedure for selecting extension staff has been reorganized
recently, and, starting with a pre-selection test in which 2000 candidates
took part, 250 were allowed to take an aptitude test from which 100 were
awarded training opportunity, under a MAF program. The lowest grade of
extension staff (AT's) undergo a six months training course at 2 training
centres at Mange and Makali, where broad introductory training in agriculture
is provided, after which they carry out one year of field work. Upon success-
ful completion of this training, each AT is guaranteed a position in the
extension service. Training of AI-s consists of a 3 year course at Njala
University College (NUC) and is open to selected AT's, with MAF adjusting the
number of entrants on a year-i --ycar basis.  NUC also offers a 4 year degree
course in agriculture, graduat s from which may become senior officers in MAF,
but are not guaraoyteed positions.. The annual output is between 10 to 15
degree graduates.



- 6 -
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.17      A Project Evaluation and Services Unit (PESU) was established
under EIADP-II to assist with project implementation of the two World Bank-
financed integrated agricultural development projects in the Eastern and
Northern Regions and other projects, such as, the Koinadugu and Magbosi
IADPs, the Gambia/Mattru Oil Palm Project, the Daru Oil Palm Company (DOPC)
and the Farmers Finance Company (FFC). PESU provided effective financial
control, budgeting, accounting, auditing and related services, but did not
accomplish its monitoring and evaluation functions as staff was diverted to
the preparation of projects.
1.18      In 1979, to streamline and strengthen centralized planning and
monitoring, Government merged PESU and MAF's Planning Unit into a single
Planning, Evaluation, Monitoring and Service Unit (PEMSU). Under the Magbosi
Project, provision was made for the first field monitoring and evaluation
unit; PEMSU will supervise the unit's technical activities.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. The Main Characteristics
Location and Physical Features
2.01      The project area of the proposed Eastern IADP-III, will cover the
whole administrative region of the Eastern Province (15,350 km2), comprising
three districts: Kenema, Kailahum and Kono (IBRD Map 14872); it includes the
area covered by Phases I and II (10,600 km2). The topography is undulating,
with inland plains at about 30 m above sea level in the South gradually
increasing in altitude going northwards; these plains are dissected by narrow
valleys and steep relief ranging to an altitude of 600-700 m. About 80% of
the soils are ferallitic, shallow, acid (pH below 5.0), internally leached, of
low fertility and with excessive amounts of iron stone, gravel or ironstone
panning. Better soils are associated with recent river terraces. Soils in
the inland valley swamps are peat/clay topsoils with higher nutrient levels.
Mean annual rainfall is 2,500 mm over most of the area. About 80% of the
precipitation falls in the wet season from May to November. Mean monthly
temperatures vary between 25 and 280C, with mean daily temperatures highest
in March/April when solar radiation is most intense.
2.02      Access is provided by a well-paved road from Freetown that enters
the project area on its eastern border leading to Kenema. There is a daily
air service and rather unreliable radio telephone links between Kenema
and Freetown.
Population and Agriculture
2.03      Population is estimated at 890,000 by 1980, with an average density
of 60 persons/km2, varying from a low of four persons/km2 to a high of
149 persons/km2. Assuming that about 80% is rural, and an average household
consists of seven persons, there are roughly 100,000 farming households



-7-
or farm families. The main ethnic group is the Mende tribe, giving way to
the Kono tribe toward the North and the Kissi tribe toward the West.
2.04      About 230,000 ha of land (13%) are cultivated.  Upland rice, coffee,
cocoa and swamp rice occupy about 90% of the cropped area: Upland rice
42%; coffee 17%; cocoa 21% and swamp rice 10%.
Land Tenure and Farming
2.05      Land belongs to tribal communities or chiefdoms, with the Paramount
Chief or subchiefs acting as trustees.  The right to cultivate land usually
is vested in certain family groups under the control of a family head and
remains with that family unless land is abandoned for an identifiable period.
Usufruct is retainable and inheritable for as long as it is claimed. With
the approval of the Paramount Chief or family head, a farmer can temporarily
pledge, lend, or lease his land to someone in or out the Lribal community.
2.06      In spite of efforts under Phases I and II to develop swamp farming,
the traditional upland farming on the basis of shifting cultivation, remains
most important to the farmer. Each year, an area is taken out of fallow
(after some 7-10 years), cleared and planted with local varieties of rice; and
generally, as a source of additional food, cassava, and other crops such as
maize, sorghum, millet, pumpkin, melons, okra, etc. are added. Until the
'typical farmer has established a crop of rice, he is unlikely to engage in
any other farming activity. The project would assist this type of farmer.
Most of Sierra Leone's coffee and cocoa is produced in the project area; they
are the main small holder's cash crops, and have been developed without the
benefit of consistent technical guidance. The planted material is of doubtful
genetic origin, and most farmers treat coffee and cocoa as "bush crops",
providing them with only minimal attention. To increase yields from the dense
stands of coffee, a maintenance regime of weeding, pruning and fertilizing is
required. In addition, black pod disease and capsid damage depress cocoa
yields in the project area. However, yields could be increased through
a cocoa rehabilitation program.
Roads and CARE
2.07      Including the main access road (para 2.02) there are some 160
km of paved roads. The trunk roads are mostly badly maintained laterite
surfaces that are frequently impassable in the rain. Most feeder roads are in
poor condition; by contrast, feeder roads under the responsibility of CARE
(Cooperative American Relief Everywhere) are well maintained, all-weather
laterite and have replaced the trunk routes in some areas, contrary to their
original function. The capacity of the Ministry of Works (MOW) to build and
maintain roads has been insufficient to meet needs and, so, CARE carries out
these functions for the Government according to an agreed program under funds
supplied by donors and Government.
2.08      CARE is an international private voluntary agency which has tradi-
tionally received its major support from the U.S. Government and private con-
tributors. At the start of the Phase II CARE was already building roads in



- 8 -
Sierra Leone with USAID funds and agreed to construct the roads in the Eastern
and Northern areas for the project. About 375 km have been constructed in the-
East and 160 km in the North; this was in total some 225 km less than planned.
CARE which has built the roads to a higher specification than originally
planned, is now completing the northern roads to standards agreed with IDA
with funds from the EEC Special Action Credit.
B.  DOPC  and FFC
Daru Oil Palm Company (DOPC)
2.09      DOPC was established in 1976 under Phase II and has operated inde-
pendently since June 1977. It comprises a fully planted nucleus estate
totalling 731 ha with an estimated potential production of about 12.3 tons ha
of fresh fruit bunches (ffb) per year in the period covered by EIADP-II.
However, actual average estate production has only been 70% of estimated
production, and, in 1978 output fell to its lowest, 3,580 tons ffb, about 50%
of the estimated potential crop. The production shortfall was caused partly
by unfavorable weather conditions and partly by labor shortages at critical
periods during harvesting. Housing is under construction and should help to
overcome the labor constraint. The company-s financial performance is also
seriously affected by the low outgrower response to the opportunity to sell
ffb to the mill. Only around 20% of the outgrowers potential ffb production
has been going to the mill, compared to the appraised figure of 60%, mainly
because of the restrictive pricing policy of the Government (para 6.07) and
the household consumption demand of the outgrowers. The plant is currently
operating below full capacity. While there could be some improvement in the
short-term in outgrower deliveries of ffb to the mill in response to the
recent change in price (para 6.07), in the long term their deliveries are
expected to decline. Experience with smallholders elsewhere has shown that
their replanting efforts tend not to keep pace with the deterioration in their
trees, and, with their growing household consumption demand. The mill cannot
therefore rely on the outgrowers for a sustained supply level of ffb, and
it is necessary to extend the present nucleus estate to provide reliable
throughput to the mill.
Farmers Finance Company (FFC)
2.10      For the Phase II of the Eastern IADP, the Government and the Bank
agreed to establish a commercially viable rural credit institution, FFC. It
became operational at the end of September 1976. The Company has taken over
the commercial assets of the EIADP Phase I credit section along with its
lending operations: a total value of about Le 1.0 million, composed mainly of
net assets transferred (Le 833,000) and outstanding loans (Le 206,000). The
FFC-s revolving credit fund has been established with the repayments of loans
disbursed to farmers under Phase I. FFC established its own headquarters and
inherited the EIADP commercial services staff, equipment, and buildings (market
centers). Recovery rates have been low mainly because of weaknesses in the
administrative structure, and partly because farmers seem to believe that
government credits are, or should be, grants. It is difficult to determine the



-9-
exact loan recovery rates since the current practice of the company is to
record a repayment as being applicable to the year in which it is received
even though it might be for a loan granted two or three years earlier. On
the basis of the current method, recovery rates have fallen from about 80%
in 1976 to 64% in 1979.  At present the company is operating at a loss,
given the high administrative costs, low recovery rates and interest rates
of only 10% for seasonal and 8% for development loans. The management,
input distribution, and loan collection system of the Company need to be
reorganized and interest rates increased to be more reflective of the costs
of operation. These issues would be addressed under the proposed project
(paras 3.12, 4.16, 4.17).
C. The IDA Integrated Agricultural Development Projects
Phases I and II
(Cr. 323-SL and Cr. 568/Ln. 1138-SL)
Phase I
2.11      The first project (1973-75) was the first such project in Sierra
Leone; it covered 10,600 km2 in 3 districts in the Eastern province and 2
chiefdoms in the Southern province. Total project costs were US$5.6 million
of which IDA provided US$4.3 million. The project was a success, meeting
targets six months ahead of schedule. It established a project management
unit and provided smallholders with credit, and extension services. Over
3,500 of the 70,000 farm families in the area directly benefited. A modern
palm oil mill and severalismall rice mills were built. A preparation report
for a second development project, including the north was prepared, together
with a consolidation phase for the follow-up project. The Project Performance
Audit Report (No. 2066 da;ed May 22, 1978), while acknowledging the success of
the project, and supporting the revised ERR of 20% (vs 15%-in the SAR), sug-
gested the following shortcomings: a lack of understanding of the socio-
economics of the area led to labor bottlenecks; the uncertain integration of
swamp rice cultivation into the traditional farming system; low returns of
swamp rice caused by decreasing yields; and the lack of significant improve-
ment in existing institutions. Crop development averages were as follows:
Table 1. EIADP-I Crop Development (1973-1975 incl.)
Swamp Rice         Cocoa        Oil Palm Estate    Oil Palm Outgrowers
Appr.  Actual    Appr.  Actual  Appr.    Actual          Appr.   Actual
Hectares       2,400  2,855       300    308      204      213          732       774
Farmers        2,500  2,652       375    391       -        -           183       542
Phase II
2.12      Next to the general objective of raising farmers' income, the
second phase EIADP was mainly aimed at securing and strengthening the progress
under Phase I through: (a) establishing farm service centers and expanding



- 10 -
agricultural extension, credit, training and seed farms to (i) increase yields
in the swamp rice area developed under EIADP-I, (ii) develop a further tranche
of inland valley swamp rice, (iii) increase productivity on 14,400 ha of
upland rice, and (iv) plant more oil palm and cocoa; and (b) establishing
and staffing a project evaluation and services unit (PESU) in the Ministry
of Agriculture; and short-term consultant services to prepa~-e new projects.
2.13      Seen as an extension of Phase I, the project was to cover two
years (January 1976-December 1977). It was however financed jointly with the
4 year Northern Area Project for a total cost of US$13.7 million. The Bank
Group's share of financing was an IDA credit of US$5.0 million, and an IBRD
loan of US$5.0 million. Of the US$10.0 million financed by the Bank Group,
US$2.3 million had been allocated to the Eastern Area Project Phase II.
Because of delays in project implementation in both Areas, and cost overruns
for production inputs in the North, and for roads in both the North and East,
an additional EEC-Special Action Credit of US$2 million was granted. The
completion dates of both Areas were extended to permit them to achieve their
targets. Full momentum has been attained in the Northern Area and major
production targets should be achieved by its completion date in June 1981. In
the Eastern Area, as of December 1979, crop developments were all in excess of
appraisal targets with the exeption of upland rice for which no development
took place.
Table 2.  EIADP-II Crop Development (1976-1979 incl.)
Swamp Rice          Cocoa              Oil Palm Outgrowers
Appr.   Actual    Appr.   Actual        Appr.          Actual
Hectares      1,680    2,226       400     846          640            929
Farmers       6'000    6,905
By the end of 1979, CARE had constructed about 535 km of roads--70% of tar-
get--to the country's Class IV road specifications. The houses and farm
service centers were finally completed near the end of 1979. External funding
for the Eastern component ceased in June 1980 and its operational expenses
have since been met by the Government.
2.14      FFC and DOPC, were formed as independent companies, and took over
from PMU the responsibility for providing farmer credit and distributing
production inputs (FFC), as well as operating the oil palm estate and mill
(DOPC). PESU became operational mid-1977, and in January 1979, Government
merged PESU and its own Planning Unit into a Planning Evaluation, Monitoring
and Services Unit - PEMSU (para 1.20), as a first step in reorganizing MAF
(para 1.12).
Project Problems and Lessons of Experience
2.15      A serious issue arose during Phase I over the proposal to set up
the Agriculture Development Authority (ADA). It was intended that the ADA
would own and operate the project-s oil palm nucleus estate and mill, take
over the credit fund, operate rice mills after the project period, and assist



- 11 -
Government in identifying, preparing and managing other agricultural projects.
At the request of Government IDA agreed to abandon this proposal on the basis
that ADA would remove considerable authority from the then Ministry of Agri-
culture and Natural Resources (MANR), that it would stretch the countries
limited qualified manpower, and ADA would not solve the problems of MANR's
inefficiency which gave rise to its conception. FFC and DOPC were proposed
and accepted for Phase II of the project to meet the need for proper credit
arrangements and the management of oil palm production.
2.16      Overlapping extension services became a problem in Phase II.
The PMU set up under Phase-I was to expand its responsibility to include
all agricultural activities in the Eastern Province, with the Provincial
Agricultural Officer (PAO), also being the Deputy Project Manager (DPM).
For a while, these two posts were held simultaneously; but in 1978, because
of conflicts and the view of MANR staff that this arrangement eroded the
authority of the PAO, and affected their career stream, the PAO and DPM
positions were separated. This created a problem, as there was one Service
for project activities, responsible to the PM; and another for non-project
activities, responsible to the PAO. This undoubtedly hampered the institu-
tional building effort. Fortunately, MAF is now aware of the crucial need
for aligning personnel assignments to working areas, and the preparation of
EIADP-III has been based on this principle.
2.17      The two rice components - swamp and upland - offer an interesting
contrast. For upland rice, performance against target was a disaster - zero
achievement against a target of 14,400 ha. This failure is attributable
partly to project management's emphasis on swamp development to the neglect of
upland farming which is the main food crop activity in the region. The
emphasis was prompted in the first place by a controversy over suitable upland
rice varieties for the Eastern area, and the ensuing shortage of improved
seed. Further, because of the known higher yield responses to improved
practices in the swamps, and because of the strong traditional attachment of
the farmer to upland farming, MANR, at that time, actively promoted swamp rice
development at the expense of the upland. The issue of upland seed availabil-
ity remained unresolved, and, faced with a relatively short project implemen-
tation period (2 years), project management concluded that it could not
promote parallel development of the upland with the swamp component. The
result was that swamp rice development area targets were surpassed. However,
yield achievements did not meet appraisal expectations--1800-2000 kg/ha
compared with 2200-2500 kg/ha. This performance was due mainly to emphasis on
area targets to the detriment of technical standards of water control, the
difficulties in getting adequate and timely deliveries of inputs, and the
departure of the land development technical expert in 1978. Government
recognizes the discrepancies in the rice development program for the Eastern
Area, and is committed to correcting them. It wishes to promote improved
upland rice production, and has resolved the seed varieties problem mentioned
above by establishing a National Seeds Committee (para 4.22), which will
decide on the release of recommended improved varieties. The proposed project
would therefore include an upland rice improvement component. Further, the
Seed Multiplication Unit (SMU) in addition to swamp rice seed has expanded its



- 12 -
production to include the recommended upland rice varieties (para 4.20).
The Land Planning Unit has been reorganized and strengthened with qualified
staff, and now has the capacity to operate effectively. The proposed project
would also address the issue of improving input supplies (para 4.16) and
extension follow-up (para 4.08).
2.18      The FFC suffered from a number of problems, which were discussed
in para 2.10.  PEMSU's financial controlling function is operating well and
is extending its services over some seven projects. Its planning section
is awaiting the appointment of a senior sector planner and a project planner.
PEMSU's monitoring section was fully occupied with the preparation of the
proposed EIADP-III and is now carrying out a baseline survey in the Magbosi
area.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
3.01      The proposed project is the third integrated agricultural development
project in the Eastern Province and is a follow-up of EIADP-II. The need
for a third phase was identified by World Bank-s Regional Mission, West
Africa (RMWA) in 1977. The project was prepared by a team from the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry assisted by consultants and RNWA, and presented
to World Bank for financing in November 1979. An appraisal mission visited
the country from January 25 to February 21, 1980.
B. Summary Description
3.02      The project would enable Government to continue the agricultural
development of the Eastern Region over the next five years. The primary
project objective would be to increase food and export crop production and
farm incomes of smallholders by extending the present project area from
10,500 km2 to 15,400 km2 to cover the whole of Eastern Province and
promote upland crop development among farmers not reached under the earlier
phases. Another objective would be to improve production levels of swamp
rice achieved under the first two phases. Increasing food production,
mainly rice, and the major cash crops, cocoa and coffee would be achieved by
encouraging improved farming techniques through strengthening and training
the extension service in the use of more effective extension methods, and
improving the input and credit services provided by FFC. Of the 100,000
farm families presently in the area about 50,000 would benefit from the
extension service advice, the wells and the road construction programs; of
these about 12,580 families would be direct beneficiaries of the crop
development and credit programs. To improve the long-term viability of DOPC
and increase palm oil production, the nucleus estate would be expanded. The
present dual administration in the region would be unified into a single
agricultural service which would be responsible for all agricultural develop-
ment. Rural infrastructure would be improved further through the construc-
tion of more feeder roads and wells. The project would specifically provide
for:



- 13 -
(a) a smallholder crop development program involving;
i) improving yields on 2,000 ha of swamp development under EIADP
I and II;
ii)  increasing yields on 10,000 ha of upland annual crops -
principally rice and cassava;
iii) rehabilitating 800 ha of coffee and planting 2,000 ha of new
coffee;
iv)  rehabilitating 1,000 ha of cocoa and planting 800 ha of
new cocoa;
(b) constructing 300 village wells and 300 km of feeder and penetration
roads;
(c) strengthening the regional agricultural services by:
i)   maintaining and strengthening the existing Project Unit and
putting all agricultural services in the region under its
control;
ii)  expanding training and improving direction of the extension
services;
iii) establishing an engineering unit to oversee the engineering
aspects of land planning for swamp development, road and well
development and the workshops;
iv)  establishing a monitoring and evaluation unit:
(d) expanding the Daru Oil Palm Company nucleus estate by 300 ha,
reorganizing its management and financial systems;
(e) strengthening the Farmer Finance Company services by:
i) recruiting a credit specialist and improving staff quarters
and office accommodation;
ii) construction of four service centers and drying floors for
coffee and cocoa:
(f) financing of the services provided by MAF's Planning. Evaluation.
Monitoring Services (PEMSU) for projects and providing a projects
coordinator in MAF;
(g) financing special studies.
3-03      The Ministry of Agriculture would have responsibility for project
implementation. Under agreed specifications and contracts, the road construc-
tion would be done by CARE which would be responsible to the Ministry of
Works.



- 14 -
C. Detailed Features
Crop Development
3.04      Inland Swamp Rice.  Based on the interest shown by farmers and
experience gained during Phases I and II, the project would improve the water
control and crop husbandry on 2,000 ha of swamps partially developed under the
first projects. About 2,000 farmers would be involved, farming 1.0 ha of rice
each. Two types of swamps are recognized for which two technological packages
would be introduced (para 5.02). On 500 ha of swamps, with fertile soils and
good drainage and irrigation potential, the new package would increase yields
and the potential of a second crop. On about 1,500 ha with sandy soils,
difficult drainage and and limited water, the new package would only improve
its yield potential through improved husbandry (para. 5.02).
3.05      Upland Annual Crops.  Most farmers in the Eastern Area continue to
produce rice on the uplands in the traditional manner, that is shifting
cultivation with a new area cleared each year for this crop. Although the
social, cultural and environmental dynamics of this crop are not fully
understood, improved productivity and better land utilization are likely to
be of considerable benefit to farm families in the project area. Research
into the farming systems as a whole would continue, under Rokupr, but in the
meanwhile improved seed and cultivation techniques (para. 5.04) would be
introduced under the project on 10,000 hectares of upland rice and cassava.
3.06      Coffee.  The project would take over the present SLPMB pilot
rehabilitation program and would rehabilitate some 800 ha of coffee under a
system of phased pruning. To increase the income of farmers, the project
would also place emphasis on the development of some 2000 ha of new coffee
planting. The project would supply credit for fertilizer, tools, seedlings
and labor. Extension activities would concentrate on ensuring adherence
to the improved technology and proper harvesting.
3.07      Cocoa.  Yields of existing cocoa stands would be increased through
a cocoa rehabilitation and planting program covering 1,800 ha. This program
would build upon SLPMB's pilot rehabilitation program (400 ha/year), which
concentrates heavily on training staff and farmers in correct spraying tech-
niques for controlling blackpod disease and capsid damage. Farmers would be
provided with credit to purchase CP3 knapsack sprayers and chemicals. No
fertilizer would be supplied for rehabilitated cocoa because of the poor
genetic base of the planted material. Although farmer demand for new cocoa
plantings is high, only limited areas possess suitable soils for new plantings
with the higher yielding hybrid planting material. The project would there-
fore carefully select some 800 ha of suitable cocoa lands for development, and
would provide credit for seedlings, fertilizers, tools and labor.
Village Wells
3.08      To support agricultural development through improving the general
well-being of the rural population, a village well component has been
included to improve the domestic water supply in a number of villages.
Swamps, streams, water holes and hand-dug open wells which are the water



- 15 -
sources for most of the smaller villages in the project area, tend to dry up
in the dry season, and sooner or later become heavily polluted. A well unit
now being trained under a UNICEF program would be properly equipped under the
proposed project to execute the well digging program. A simple health educa-
tion program would be carried out by project staff to teach the villagers how
to use wells properly and maintain sanitary conditions. Since there is no
previous experience in the project area with well digging, the project would
follow a simplified well design as currently used in the Northern IAD project.
About 300 wells would be installed in villages of less than 1,000 persons, at
a ratio of one well per 150 persons, and not more than two wells per village.
The project would consult village leaders on site selection, and would enlist
villagers to supply labor under supervision of project staff.
Penetration Roads
3.09      A total of about 300 kms of penetration roads and chiefdom tracks
would be constructed under the project. It is proposed that of the total
about 170 kms would be to Class 4a (feeder road) specifications and 95 kms
would be chiefdom tracks. The remaining 35 kms consists of routes which
could be either chiefdom tracks or Class 4a depending on the availability of
funds since their importance in terms of accessibility and projected usage
places them between the two categories. With the construction of these
roads and tracks the all-weather road density of the area would be increased
from about 0.08 to 0.10 km/km2. The road component would be undertaken by
MOW under a negotiated contract with CARE, the executing agency, satisfactory
to IDA. Bank missions have met with CARE and discussed the relevant engineer-
ing and financing procedures (see Working Paper No. 6). The project would
provide financing for the equipment and operating costs of a road construction
unit. The equipment purchased would be the property of the Government and
would be placed at the disposal of CARE for the execution of the program.
Upon completion of the program the equipment would be made available for
maintenance of the roads. In addition to the construction of the roads, CARE,
with financing from the Government, would maintain each road for two years
after completion, after which MOW would assume responsibility for its mainte-
nance. Where MOW does not have the capacity to carry out this maintenance, it
would engage local contractors. Project Management and MOW/CARE would agree
upon an annual construction program in advance of the start of any work. The
working details of the program would be subject to prior approval by a
consultant engineer who would be retained by the project. On the basis of
this annual construction program, CARE would prepare operating cost rates on a
per unit basis for the Class 4a roads and chiefdom tracks. MOW would submit
annually these unit rates and supporting details to IDA for approval.
However, because the all-weather capability of the roads Manowa junction to
Sefadu and Daru to Joru is a prerequisite for the start of the road works
under the project, MOW would commence the upgrading of these roads not later
than March, 1981. MOW would submit to IDA by January 1 of each year a satis-
factory annual maintenance program for all trunk roads and feeder roads in the
project area. Assurances on the above actions were obtained at negotiations
and in addition it was agreed that satisfactory contractual agreement with
CARE and commencement of work on the Manowa-Sefadu and Daru-Joru roads would
be conditions of disbursement against the road component.



- 16 -
Agricultural Services
3.10      A main objective of the proposed project is to create
well-trained and motivated unified regional support services. To achieve this
(i) the EIADP-II project area would be extended to cover entirely the Eastern
Province; (ii) the management functions of Project Manager (PM) and Principal
Agricultural Officer (PAO) would be combined in one; and (iii) all activities
normally carried out by the MAF Agricultural Division and the ones for which
EIADP-II is responsible would be amalgamated into a single support service.
Under the project, extension services would be provided for the whole of the
Eastern Province; the system would be reorganized along the lines of the
Training and Visit (T & V) system, and personnel - anticipated to be larger
in number than at present - would be properly selected and trained (paras
4.08-.10). All personnel would be provided with adequate means of transport:
cars for upper level and supervisory personnel, motorcycles for middle level
staff and village extension workers. Also, in order to ensure that all key
staff are aware of the objectives of and their responsibilities under the
project, consultants would carry out management training sessions for key
supervisory staff at the start of the project, with periodic follow-up train-
ing (para 4.10), and additional training overseas would be provided. The
present rather limited engineering services would be strengthened with suffi-
cient and qualified personnel, appropriate transport and two workshops--one in
Kono and a main workshop in Kenema--to carry out the swamp development and
well programs and to supervise road construction. A Monitoring and Evaluation
Cell (MEC) would be established in Kenema Headquarters to collect data on
project progress and weaknesses, to be analyzed at PEMSU in Freetown.
Houses would be built for project management (chief accountant and internal
auditor) for the extension services (AO's house in Kono and one in Daru
district), and for the project's engineer. The training center would be
rehabilitated. An additional workshop for maintenance of all project vehicles
and equipment would be constructed in the Kono district.
DOPC
3.11      To improve the supply of ffb for the DOPC's mill, and achieve
greater reliability of operations, the present nucleus estate will be extended
by 300 ha of new plantings (para 2.09). These will be sited on suitable land
at a distance of no more than 15 km from the estate. No mass displacement of
villages would be necessary, as adequate sparsely populated land is expected
to be available in the vicinity of the estate for this purpose. Because
extension of the nucleus estate is essential for DOPC's financial viability,
the acquisition of 300 ha land suitable for palm oil growing in the neighbor-
hood of DOPC's nucleus estate, and the payment of appropriate compensation,
satisfactory to IDA, to smallholders whose land is acquired, would be a
condition of disbursement against expenditures on this project component.
Farmers' Finance Company
3.12      Under the project an internationally recruited credit specialist
would be employed for three years under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA. Details of terms of reference are in Working Paper 3. He would be



- 17 -
responsible for the reorganization and restructuring of the credit admini-
stration and input supply systems of the FFC and of the proposed second
phase of the Northern Integrated Agricultural Project. Also, adequate means
of transport for input distribution and mobility of field staff would be
provided. Four new farm service centers would be constructed in the Northern
part of the project area, and 4 of the existing service centers would be
equipped with drying floors so that FFC can act as a buying agent for SLPBE.
Under the project FFC credit officers would regularly attend village meetings
with farmers and, in collaboration with project extension workers, determine
farmers' demand for credit; FFC management would then be responsible for
obtaining the production inputs on time (para 4.16). At negotiations an
assurance was obtained that FFC would be appointed a Licenced Buying Agent for
Coffee and Cocoa before March 31, 1981.
PEMSU and Projects Coordinator
3.13      Since PEMSU is essential for the operation and institution building
of all development projects in the country, financing for PEMSU's continued
services including financial control, planning, monitoring and evaluation
would be provided under the project. The costs of all local personnel as well
as of the internationally recruited Financial Controller and Evaluation
Economist would be covered for the entire implementation period of the proj-
ect. The positions of Senior Sector Planner, and Project Planner would be
covered for two years after 1982 when the existing funding under the IDA
Technical Assistance Project (Cr 970-SL). The position of Projects Coor-
dinator would be funded for five years (1981-85).
Consultant Services
3.14      The project would finance a total of 26 man-months of short-term
consultant services at an estimated cost of US$11,000 per man-month indi-
vidually or through consulting firms for the following (i) carry out a
management training program for key staff through a series of seminars in
which project objectives would be analyzed, and methods of attaining them
determined, and management progress reviewed (6 man-months); (ii) design
and execute a baseline socio-economic survey of the project area to facili-
tate the implementation of an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system
by the project's MEC (9 man-months); (iii) prepare, by December 31, 1981, a
research program for improving smallholder production of cocoa, coffee and oil
palm in the project area to be implemented by project staff, and periodically
review its progress (10 man-months); (iv) review and approve a detailed work
plan for penetration road construction (300 km) prior to commencement of
construction work (1 man-month). Although most of the consultants are likely
to be recruited internationally, efforts would be made to encourage participa-
tion by local institutions and qualified Sierra Leonians where possible.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that consultants would be engaged
with qualifications, experience, terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and
Government would promptly submit their reports to IDA for review.



Table 1      Summary of Project Cost
Local Foreign Total      Local Foreign Total
(Le million)             (US$ million)               s      ojf
Base    Project
Cost    Cost
1.   Project Management                      0.9    0.9      1.8       0.8    0.9      1.7           8.9      6.8
2.   Extension & Training                    1.6    1.4      3.0       1.5    1.3      2.8         14.7      11.2
3.   Engineering Services
a.  Admin. & Workshop                  0.8    1.1      1.9       0.8    1.0       1.8          9.5       7.2
b.  Wells                              0.3    0.2       0.5      0.3    0.2       0.5.         2.6       2.0
c.  Roads                              0.9    2.6      3.5       0.8    2.5      3.3          17.4      13.2
4.   Production Inputs                       0.9    1.7      2.6       0.9    1.6      2.5          13.2     10.0
5.   Daru Oil Palm Co.                       0.4    0.7      1.1       0.4    0.6      1.0           5.3      4.0
6.   Farmers Finance Co.                     0.3    1.3      1.6       0.3    1.2      1.5           7.9      6.0
7.   PEMSU and Projects Coordinator          1.0    2.1      3.1       1.0    2.0      3.0         15.8      12.0
8.   Monitoring & Evaluation Cell            0.4    0.2      0.6       0.4    0.2      0.6           3.1       2.4
9.   Consultancy Services                     -     0.3      0.3        -     0.3      0.3           1.6      1.2
Total Base Cost                         7.5   12.5    20.0        7.2   11.8    19.0         100.0      76.0
Physical Contingencies                 0.1    0.5       0.6      0.1    0.5       0.6                    2.4
Price Contingencies                    2.0    3.6      5.6       1.9    3.5       5.4                   21.6
Total Project Cost                9.6   16.6    26.2        9.2   15.8    25.0                    1LOO.O
Percentage                       36.6   63.4   100.0       36.6   63.4   100.0



- 19 -
D. Cost Estimates
3.15       Project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties,(from which the
project is exempt) are estimated at Le 26.2 million (US$25.0 million) of which
Le 16.6 million (US$15.8 million) or 63% would be foreign exchange require-
ments. The baseline cost estimate has been derived using mid-1980 prices.
Cost estimates for civil works (swamp development, roads, wells and buildings)
have been based on updated prices experienced in the Northern (for the wells)
and Eastern IAD projects, while incremental farm inputs have been costed at
farmgate level.  Local staff salaries and emoluments have been calculated
following civil service salary scales, increased by 25% as agreed to by
Government, to make them consistent with the salary and wage levels of other
IAD projects. Expatriate staff costs are estimated to be US$75,000-85,000 per
man-year, in accordance with prevailing market conditions for individual
contracts; salaries of expatriate staff would be exempted from income taxes.
Physical contingencies of 5% have been added for civil works, equipment,
non-labor farm inputs and operation and maintenance, and amount to 3% of
total base cost. Anticipated price increases, amounting to 28% of total base
costs plus physical contingencies, have been calculated on the basis of the
following projected rates of inflation: 5% per annum for all local personnel
costs (in line with present government policy); for local civil works and
operation and maintenance costs, 13% in 1980-82, 12% in 1983, 11% in 1984 and
10% in 1985 and following years; for the foreign exchange component of all
non-personnel costs, 10.5% in 1980, 9.0% in 1981, 8% in 1982, 7% in 1983, 6.7%
in 1984 and 6.5% in 1985, for personnel 8% per annum. A detailed cost table
is in Annex 1 and Working Paper 1 and a summary in Table 1.
E. Financing Arrangements
3.16      External financing for the proposed project would be provided by
IDA, the United Nations Developpement Programme (UNDP), and Banque Arabe
pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA) on a parallel financing
basis. The proposed financing plan is shown in Table 2 below, further
details are provided in Working Paper No. 2. The proposed IDA credit of
US$12.0 million would be on standard terms and would finance 48% of the
total project costs. The credit would cover US$9.9 million or about 65% of
the total foreign exchange costs of the project, it would finance the foreign
exchange costs of the credit specialist for the FFC, the senior extension
trainer, the project engineer, consultancy services, buildings, production
inputs, road construction and operational and maintenance costs (excluding
salaries) of the project. In addition, the credit would cover US$2.1 million
of the domestic costs of the buildings, production inputs, road construction
and operations and maintenance. The UNDP grant of US$1.9 million would
finance 19 man years of expatriate technical assistance for PEMSU. The BADEA
contribution of US$8.5 million would cover 80% of local personnel costs and
90% of the costs of project vehicles and equipment (excluding the roads
component). The funding for the DOPC and FFC would be transmitted onwards by
the GOSL to the companies in the form of equity holdings. The BADEA loan
would be for 20 years at an interest rate of 5%. The Government's contribu-
tion of US$2.6 million or 10% of total project costs would cover mostly local
personnel and operational costs.



Table 2. Financing Plan
US$ million
------- IDA --------    ------BADEA--------   -UNDP--  GOSL    ---------TOTAL----------
Foreign  Local  Total    Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local           Total
Personnel
Admin. & Ext.  1/             0.4       -     0.4                 2.6    2.6               0.6       0.4      3.2        3.6
PEMSU                                                             1.0    1.0      1.5                1.5      1.0        2.5
DOPC                                                                                       0.2                0.2       0.2
FFC                           0.2             0.2                                          0.1       0.2      0.1       0.3
Vehicles & Equipment
+ 20% spares                                             2.8       -      2.8     0.1       0.3       2.9     0.3        3.2
Buildings                           0.5     0.2    0.7                                           0.1      0.5      0.3        0.8
Production Inputs                   1.6     0.6    2.2                                           0.3      1.6      0.9        2.5
Consultancy Services                0.3      -      0.3                                                   0.3                 0.3
Road Construction                   2.5     0.8    3.3                                                    2.5      0.8        3.3
Operations & Maintenance  2/        1,9      -      1.9                                          0.4      1.9      0.4        2.3
Total Base Cost                     7.4     1.6   .9.0       2.8       3.6    6.4      1.6       2.0     11.8      7.2       19.0
Unallocated                         2.5     0.5    3.0       1.2       0.9    2.1      0.3       0.6      4.0      2.0        6.0
Total                               9.9     2.1   12.0       4.0       4.5    8.5      1.9       2.6     15.8      9.2       25.0
Percentage.                                         48                         34        8        10                         100.0
1/ Administration and Extension includes Project Management, Extension and Training
Monitoring and Evaluation Cell and Engineering Services
2/ Fuels, spares, office supplies, buildings maintenance etc.



- 21 -
3.17      In view of the financial constraints facing the Government of Sierra
Leone, it would be necessary to provide prefinancing for certain categories of
project expenditures to maintain a satisfactory rate of project implementation.
The mission has recommended that BADEA should consider establishing a revolving
account of at least one quarter of their annual contribution to be replenished
in advance of each quarter. IDA would establish a similar facility for the
operational costs of the road construction component which would be carried
out by an executing agency of the Government - CARE - (paras 2.08 and 3.09), a
non-profit organization which does not have the working capital to undertake
the program. Immediately after credit effectiveness and compliance with the
relevant conditions of disbursement (paras 3.09, 3.19), an IDA disbursement of
US$300,000 equivalent would be made into a revolving account which IDA would
replenish upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that such expenditures are
eligible (see para 3.19). The management of the accounts and the maintenance
of certified expenditure claims would be the responsibility of the Financial
Controller of PEMSU who is being financed under the current IDA project and
who would continue under the proposed project. No problems are expected in
the management of the accounts since PEMSU has already demonstrated its
ability to design and supervise efficient accounting systems in the on-going
IADPs. Conditions of effectiveness would be that all conditions precedent to
the effectiveness of the proposed BADEA loan had been fulfilled and that
financial agreements had been concluded with the DOFC and FFC. In addition,
Government would continue to finance the cost needed to maintain existing
services presently estimated at US$130,000 per year. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations and that they would increase the funds as
necessary to maintain these services to a comparable level.
F. Procurement
3.18      All goods and services financed under the IDA credit would be
procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Contracts, valued at US$50,000
or more for vehicles and equipment for the road construction unit with
an aggregate value of about about US$1.7 million, including contingencies,
and for fertilizers with an aggregate value of about US$0.7 million would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB); purchases would be
grouped into packages of at least US$50,000 whenever possible. Domestically
manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15% or the level of
applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Contracts involving expenditures
estimated at less than US$50,000 but more than US$10,000 for fuel and trans-
portation of farm inputs, with an aggregate value of US$1.9 million would be
procured through local competitive bidding. Contracts for buildings, valued
at US$1.0 million including contingencies, would not be attractive to foreign
contractors due to their small sizes and dispersed locations and would
therefore be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Contracts of less than US$10,000 for
small items such as pesticides, insecticides, tools, seedlings, spares and
other operational expenses, with an aggregate value of US$2.8 million would
be procured through limited international tendering, or local competitive
shopping in which at least three potential suppliers would be asked to submit
quotations. The services of internationally recruited staff and consultants,
valued at US$1.2 million would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines.
The road construction program with operational costs of about US$2.7 million



- 22 -
would be carried out under a pre-negotiated contract between the Borrower and
its executing agency CARE (para 3.09) since the component consists of small
scattered works and would not attract foreign bids and there are no local
contractors available. Goods and services financed by BADEA with an aggregate
of US$8.5 million would be procured in accordance with their procedures. The
UNDP contribution of US$1.9 million would be for technical staff. The GOSL
contribution of US$2.6 million would be mainly for the local costs of staff
salaries, production inputs, and operational expenses.
G.  Disbursements
3.19      The proceeds of the US$12.0 million IDA credit would be disbursed
over five years as follows:
Amount
Category                          Terms                                 US$ Million
I. Production         (a) 100% of the foreign exchange costs              2.5
Inputs                 (est. $1.8m)
90% if purchased locally
(b) 90% of the local distributional Costs
(est $0.7m)
II. Civil Works        (a) 100% of Operational Costs of the road
construction program                           2.3
(b) Buildings 100% of foreign exchange costs    0.8
85% of local costs
III. Staff              100% of the costs of Internationally Recruited  1.0
staff and consultants
IV. Operation and      100% of foreign exchange costs
Maintenance         90% of local costs of
(excluding         (a) Administration, Extension and PEMSU            1.7
salaries)         (b) DOPC                                           0.1
(c) FFC                                            0.4
V. Vehicles and       100% of costs of road construction unit             1.6
Equipment
VI. Revolving          Initial deposit into revolving account              0.3
Account            for Roads program
VII. PPF                Refinancing of advance for project pre-             0.1
paration facility for purchasing production
inputs
VIII. Unallocated                                                            1.2



- 23 -
3.20      A schedule for estimated disbursements is in Annex 2.  Disbursements
against Vehicles and Equipment, Civil Works, project operational costs, pro-
duction inputs, and Salaries and Allowances of internationally recruited staff
would be fully documented. Disbursements for the operational costs of the
road program would be made in accordance with the arrangements described in
para 3.17. IDA would make the initial payment of US$300,000 into the re-
volving account, then subsequent disbursements would be made against ex-
penditure claims verified by PEMSU. These expenditure claims would be based
on the system of unit cost rates agreed upon by CARE and IDA (para 3.09) and
must be in respect of road construction work carried out in the project area.
All supporting documents would be retained by the Borrower and made available
for inspection by IDA during the course of project supervision. If any
disbursement out of the revolving fund should fail to satisfy these criteria,
IDA would refuse reimbursement and Government would be under the obligation
to deposit the corresponding amount into the revolving account. In order
that implementation of the tree crop program may proceed according to schedule
IDA approved an advance of US$100,000 under the project preparation facility
to cover initial expenditures before credit effectiveness on seedlings and
planting materials for nursery preparation. This amount would be refinanced
under the proposed project. Assurances to above conditions were obtained
during negotiations. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
September 30, 1986.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.21      Management of the Project, of FFC and of DOPC would prepare
budgets and estimates of quarterly cash requirements in collaboration with
the accounting section of PEMSU based on appraisal estimates, but amended
where necessary to reflect changes in costs and project development policies.
The budgets would then be submitted to MAF, and the Boards of FFC and DOPC
respectively for approval. On the basis of the approved budget Government
would (i) make appropriate allocations in the MAF budget and release the
necessary funds available to MAF quarterly in advance, and (ii) make timely
allocations of the necessary foreign exchange for importation of recurrent
farm inputs and other goods required under the proposed and previous projects.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. PEMSU, which had
set up the project, FFC and DOPC accounts, has satisfactorily supervised these
accounts under Phase II, and would continue to do so under the proposed
project. PEMSU would also be responsible for the supervision and training of
the internal auditor and accountants employed under the project.
3.22      Government would cause MAF, FFC and DOPC to: (i) establish and
maintain separate project related accounts, in accordance with sound and
recognized accounting practices, to reflect its financial and operational
position as have been established under the two previous projects; (ii) have
the accounts audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (iii)
submit certified copies of the audited accounts and the auditor's report to
IDA within four months of the end of each project year; (iv) ensure that the
reports of the auditors are of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably
request; and (v) furnish such other information concerning its accounts as IDA
may reasonably require. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization & Management
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) would have overall
responsibility for the project. All activities normally carried out by
the MAF's Agricultural Division in the Eastern Region would be the responsi-
bility of the Project Manager (PM), who would be graded at the PAO or Assis-
tant Chief Agriculturalist (ACA) grade.  All project and other agricultural
staff would be responsible to the PM, who in turn, would be accountable to the
Permanent Secretary (PS), through the Chief Agriculturist (CA). A Project
Advisory Committee (PAC), already in place advising the ongoing project, will
continue its functions for the proposed project. The PAC comprising the PS
(Chairman), CA, Chief Conservator of Forests, representatives of PEMSU and the
Projects Coordinator (para 4.04) would advise on management problems, finan-
cial statements, annual budgets, programs of work, quarterly and annual
reports, audited accounts and any other matters that may require the attention
of the Ministry.
4.02      The Project Manager would chair a Regional Project  Advisory
Committee, which would meet quarterly, and a Project Development Committee,
which would meet at least once a month. The Advisory Committee would have
the function of discussing the objectives and purposes of the project, with
membership representing the Administration, the farmers community, FFC
and DOPC. The Development Committee would consist of the Project Manager
(Chairman), the Manager of FFC and the Manager of DOPC, and would be responsi-
ble for coordinating the activities of the extension services with credit and
input and oil palm development. Farmers- Committees, which were allowed to
lapse under the Second Project, would be encouraged and integrated with the
T&V extension system (para 4.09) and the FFC farm input and credit network.
4.03      Under the Eastern Regional Office, there would-be three operational
units: Administration and Finance, Extension and Training, and Engineering.
The Engineering Unit would include land planning, wells, road supervisor and
the workshops.
4.04      Because of the increasing number of externally funded agricultural
development projects in the country, and the greater administrative burden
these projects place on the MAF, Government has appointed a Projects Coordina-
tor funded under the current project and based in Freetown to assist the
Permanent Secretary in coordinating the activities of these projects. The
Projects Coordinator would continue under funding from the proposed project
and would liaise with Project Managers, and would be involved in the forma-
tion of project policies and projects development programs, the coordination
of projects training, liaising with other Government agencies on common
projects matters, and generally advise and inform MAF on the operations of
the projects.



- 25 -
4.05      The two companies, DOPC and FFC would continue to be controlled by
their Boards of Directors. The memorandum and articles of association of FFC
state that the PAO, and therefore the PM in the proposed project, would occupy
a Director's post. Under the Project, PEMSU, the Ministry's planning, moni-
toring and financial control capability, would be strengthened.
Staffing
4.06      The Project Manager, holding the PAO or ACA grade, would have
extensive experience in agricultural development work; formal academic
qualifications would be desirable but a successful managerial history would
be more important. He would be conversant with project planning and have
experience in dealing with high government officials and committees, and
with extension work, preferably the Training and Visit method. An assurance
was obtained that his qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to
IDA. The Deputy Project Manager would head the Extension and Training Unit,
and, assisted by an internationlly recruited Senior Training Officer, and a
Senior Extension Officer, would concentrate on implementing the Training and
Visit system of extension. Three graduate Agricultural Officers (AO's), and 4
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS's) and a Training Officer (TO) complete the
professional staff of the Unit. One SMS each would be assigned responsibility
for cereals (rice, maize, millet); root crops (cassava), legumes and vegeta-
bles; coffee; and cocoa. AO's would be selected from the present corps of MAF
AO's and assigned to the Province's 3 districts. Nineteen Agricultural
Instructors (AI's) would be required under the project, and would be selected
from existing MAF staff on the basis of experience, performance and training
(2 years at Njala University College NUC). The project would select 96
Agricultural Technicians (AT's) as the frontline extension worker who would be
based in villages in the project area. These AT's would have received formal
agricultural training. New appointments would be made after candidates have
passed the recently introduced pre-selection and aptitude tests conducted by
the West African Examination Council followed by the 6 months agricultural
training course. All field operational staff, including credit staff in FFC
would be expected to have a general knowledge in agriculture preferably from
within the formal training system.
4.07      Within the present structure of MAF, and, related to the implementa-
tion of the development projects, several key posts exist for which inter-
national recruitment has been necessary, the Projects Coordinator in MAF's
central administration; and the Senior Sector Planner, Project Planner,
Financial Controller, and Project Economist of PEMSU (para 3.17). In addition
to these, the posts of Senior Training Officer (para 4.06), and Farm Credit
Specialist (para 3.12) and Project Engineer (para 4.12) would be filled by
international recruitment.  Assurances were obtained from Government during
negotiations that all of the above posts would be held by qualified competent
staff acceptable to IDA, and that recruitment of the Senior Training Officer
and Farm Credit Specialist would be condition of Credit effectiveness. A
project implementation schedule is in Chart 1.



- 26 -
B. Agricultural Services
Extension and Training Service
4.08      The Extension and Training Service would be headed by a Chief
of Service, who is also the Deputy Project Manager, his initial concentra-
tion would be training on-the-job the extension staff selected for the
project. He would be assisted by an internationally recruited Senior Training
Officer, who would also coordinate all training activities within the project
(para 4.10). Under the proposed project, the T & V extension method would be
fully developed. In April 1979, the local Training Officer of EIADP-II
visited Upper Volta to study the T & V system which was then being implemented
by a team of specialists. He would assist in carrying out the training
program. There would be three basic levels of extension worker: Agricultural
Officer (AO), Agricultural Instructor (AI), and Agricultural Technician (AT).
The AT is the village extension worker, who would live in the area of a farm
service center, and who would reach his farmers through contact villages,
which are centrally located villages within less than one hour walking dis-
tance from neighboring villages and where farmer committees, or village
associations will meet. ATs would have a fixed, regular 14-day cycle of
extension visits and training sessions. There would be one AI on six ATs and
about one AO on six AIs; the AOs would supervise the activities of the AIs and
ATs.  Extension workers would liaise with the credit and input supply officers
of FFC to ensure timely delivery of farm inputs. The extension workers would
be backed up by Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), who would report to the
Chief of Service. Under the project, there would be 72 ATs, 12 AIs, 2 AOs,
and 4 SMSs. It is anticipated that each AT can visit eight contact villages
per fortnight, representing four to six villages each with an average of 20
farm families. Under the project, each AT would be provided with a motorcycle
which he would pay for in equal installments over a period of two years. The
SMS would maintain a close working relationship with Rokupr and ACRE project
which would conduct all adaptive research in the project area.
4.09      The Deputy Project Manager would have a key role in planning
the annual field work program and budget for the extension service, eva-
luating extension staff performance, and exchanging information with other
agricultural technical organizations. This officer would be a University
graduate with at least five years supervisory experience.
Training
4.10      The internationally recruited Senior Training Officer (STO) would
be responsible for coordinating all training activities under the project,
and would ensure that all staff are adequately trained to carry out their
duties. The STO would assess the value of the training program through
field visits and a feed back from senior project staff. He would be assisted
by and would himself train the local Training Officer who would be required
to take over training responsibilities at the end of the STO's employment
contract. Initially, at each level, staff would receive orientation and
refresher courses in order that they would fully understand the objectives of
the project, and its relationship to MAF, and each staff member's responsi-
bilities. The senior management team (including FFC and DOPC) would first
participate in a management training seminar. This seminar would provide an
opportunity for staff members to become fully acquainted with the project
objectives, the likely difficulties in implementing it, previous experiences



- 27 -
gained under the earlier phases, and to formulate a more systematic approach
to managing project affairs, which would include target setting and review.
The seminar would be carried out within three months of project implementa-
tion, and would be run by a team of consultants with specific project manage-
ment experience. After six months, the consultants would carry out an interim
follow-up assessment of the functioning of the management team, and after a
further six months, would hold a second seminar to thoroughly review with the
same staff the first year's operations. At this time a clear indication
should have emerged of how the project is to be managed in order to accomplish
its objectives. Staff training needs would be identified during this period,
and it is expected that some key senior staff would require further management
training overseas for which provision would be made (15 man months). Middle
level staff would also be given orientation training of a similar nature but
organized and run by the Senior Training Officer after consulting the manage-
ment training consultants. The consultants would also organize and run a
seminar for MAF officials in Freetown on integrated agricultural projects,
their objectives, management and role in Sierra Leone's agricultural develop-
ment. After the above initial training, the main thrust of the project's
training program would be aimed at the effective implementation of the Train-
ing and Visit system of extension. Subject Matter Specialists (SMS's)
assisted by Agricultural Officers (AO's) would carry out training of the
Agricultural Instructors (AI's) and the Agricultural Technicians (AT's).
Two training teams consisting each of 2 SM's and 1 AO would each train a
total of 6 AI's and 36 AT's per fortnight. The teams would spend six days
each fortnight in training, and would spend the remaining five working days
in field visits, assessing the effects of training and in providing necessary
field support to the AI's and AT's. The training of farmers would generally
fit within the Training and Visit extension system, however, from time to
time the STO and extension staff would hold one day training sessions for
farmers which would be held in their districts, and for which a mobile
audio-visual unit would be set up under the project.
4.11      FFC staff and credit officers would have on-the-job training by the
credit specialist who will advise FFC during the first three years under the
project. The consultant responsible for carrying out surveys under the
project should also train the project's monitoring and evaluation field
staff. Project funds would be made available to cover the cost of visiting
specialists from the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA)
in Ibadan, Nigeria; from the Institut Francais du Cafe, du Cacao et Autres
Plantes Stimulantes (IFCC) in Abidjan, Ivory Coast; from the Institut de
Recherche pour les Huiles et Oleagineux (IRHO) in Montpellier, France; or
from ACRE and RRRS sponsored activities.
Engineering Services
4.12      The Engineering Services Unit would be headed by the Project
Engineer who would be responsible for supervising, on behalf of project
management, the road construction program to be carried out by CARE (para.
3.09). He would also be responsible to project management for the overall
operations of the land planning and well construction units and the workshops.
His qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to IDA. If an expa-
triate is recruited for the position, his contract would be for three years
and he would have the responsibility of training a local counterpart to
replace him for the remainder of the project implementation period.



- 28 -
Research
4.13      The Adaptive Crop Research and Extension Project (ACRE), which is
being financed by USAID, is expected to begin operations in the cropping
season of 1980. The primary focus in the first five years of its anticipated
15-year life would be on food crops, with emphasis on agronomy, soils, harvest-
ing, storage and marketing, agricultural economics and evaluation. A section
for each would be created. The Eastern Area Project would provide facilities
for and participate in the field trials program and in application of research
findings, the program being carried out in consultation with the extension
service.
4.14      Under the ACRE program, rice, cassava, sweet potatoes, groundnuts,
onions, pigeon peas, cowpeas, sesame and other crops will be included. The
ACRE project is expected to address those functions which could lead to
improved production from the established farming systems, including: the use
of improved varieties which perform well under farmer-s conditions; timing of
farming operations so that labor is available for each essential activity;
improving productivity of land and labor through the introduction of small
equipment; and improving the harvesting, processing and storage of crops.
4.15      Tree crop research is not provided for in the first phase of
the ACRE project. In view of the lack of research into coffee and cocoa,
and the importance of these crops as foreign exchange earners, the project
would contract with a suitable research organization to prepare by December
31, 1981, a detailed research program for the immediate problems of these two
crops. Cocoa research is needed in Capsid and Black Pod disease control,
fertilizer requirements, planting material (seed vs clones), and shade
management. In coffee, research is required in pruning systems, fertilizer
requirements and planting materials. The project's tree crop agronomist will
be responsible for carrying out the field research under the guidance of
consultants from the research organization. Ten man-months would be provided
in the project for the consultants to set up the research program and super-
vise through visits to the project area. Rokupr Rice Research Station has a
continuing commitment to rice and related research for all of Sierra Leone,
and carries out locational research in the Eastern Area. The Director of the
ACRE project would liaise with RRRS and the project for research in the
project area.
C.  Credit and Input Supply
FFC and Credit Arrangements
4.16      The FFC would provide credit in the form of agricultural inputs
(fertilizers, pesticides, tools and equipment, seeds and seedlings) and
payment for hired labor for upland and swamp rice development, cocoa and
coffee rehabilitation and new plantings. The existing credit administra-
tion and input distribution systems of the Eastern and Northern projects
would be reorganized by the Credit Specialist to be recruited under the



- 29 -
project (para. 3.12). He would be responsible for developing a new proce-
dures manual for the approval, disbursement and collection of loans. He
would evaluate the procedures for cost control and the profitability of
each activity including the proposed FFC activity as a Licensed Buying
Agent for cocoa, coffee and palm kernels on behalf of the SLFMB (para. 3.12).
He would also be responsible for establishing appropriate procurement and
distribution procedures to ensure timely supply of inputs.
4.17      Both seasonal and medium-term credit would be provided to farmers.
Medium term credit would comprise: (i) hand tools, a communally owned pedal
thresher, and the first year's seed provision for swamp rice development;
(ii) sprayers for cocoa rehabilitation; (iii) seedlings, fertilizer, chemi-
cals, hand tools and a crop loss credit l/ for coffee rehabilitation; and
(iv) input requirements including hired labor for cocoa and coffee plantings.
All loans would be at 15% per annum with the repayment period varying between
three to five years for rice development and tree crop rehabilitation and
eight to ten years with four years grace for new plantings of the tree crops.
Seasonal credit at 20% per annum would comprise; (i) seed, cassava setts and
tools for upland development; (ii) seed fertilizer and hired labor for swamp
rice development; (iii) seedlings, insecticides and fungicides for cocoa
rehabilitation, (iv) seedlings, fertilizer and pesticides for coffee rehabili-
tation, (v) fertilizer, pesticides, tools and hired labor from Year 4 onwards
for cocoa planting; and (v) fertilizer and pesticide from Year 6 onwards for
coffee planting. No downpayment would be required for seasonal credit. In
medium term development credit, farmers would make a downpayment of 10% as a
part of the credit arrangement. Under Phase II of this project, Government
agreed to a phased removal of the subsidy on fertilizers and, with the last
reduction in June 1979, the subsidy now stands at 30%. At negotiations,
Government agreed in principle to the removal of all subsidies on fertilizers
and have submitted a time table for removal before the end of the 1985 cropping
season through annual reductions, starting in the 1982 season of about 25% of
the existing subsidy. Interest rates on seasonal and medium-term credit
currently are set at 10% and 8% respectively in the project area. In view of
present and prospective inflation rates and the costs of administering the
credit, the interest rates should be increased. Assurances were obtained
from Government at negotiations that seasonal and medium-term interest rates
for the project would be increased to 20% and 15% respectively, as was agreed
to by the Government for the IFAD Magbosi Integrated Agricultural Development
Project and that these rates would be reviewed annually by Government with
IDA.
4.18      To ensure adequate funding for the credit operations of the FFC
under the proposed and earlier phases of the project, the government has
agreed to increase the equity of the FFC by Le 500.000 over a period of two
years, of which Le 400,000 would come directly from the Central Government and
Le 100,000 from the SLPMB. The contributions would be in installments, the
first installment of Le 100,000 would be paid within ninety days after credit
1/   The pruning technique for rehabilitation of coffee results in a
temporary drop in production, which is easily made up in later
harvests.



- 30 -
effectiveness followed by two installments of Le 200,000 each within one year
and two years, respectively, after credit effectiveness. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that these contributions would be under terms satis-
factory to IDA. FFC-s main sources of revenue come from interest on loans,
mark-up on farm inputs and commission as a Licensed Buying Agent (LBA) for
coffee and cocoa (Annex 3). Combining credit and marketing is a general
practice in the country, farmers are accustomed to obtaining credit from
traders to whom they sell their produce, a practice which facilitates loan
collection. Furthermore since the two activities are so closely linked there
would be a more efficient use of FFC-s staff and transport. Assurances were
obtained that FFC be appointed as LBA for coffee and cocoa. FFC's cash flow
indicates that some years would be profitable, others would not, but that a
positive cumulative surplus would accrue, ranging from Le 29,000 in Year 2 to
Le 3.2 million by Year 12 (W.P. 3). To ensure FFC's continued viability,
agreement was reached that the cumulative surplus be converted into equity,
until such time as the debt/equity ratio is at least 1 to 1.
4.19      To improve the viability of DOPC, in addition to increasing its
nucleus estate to 300 ha (para 3.11) it is intended to: (a) improve its
management by moving its headquarters to the plantation, and (b) increasing
prices for smallholders delivery of fresh fruit bunches (para 6.07 and W.P.
4). Based on an increased millgate price of Le 610 per ton of palm oil (para
6.07) and Le 235 per ton of kernel the projected cash flow for DOPC (Annex 4)
shows annual surpluses from Year 1 onwards. Annual surplus starts from Le
174,500 in Year 1 to Le 783,700 by Year 10. The projected profit and loss
statement for DOPC is shown in Annex 4. Again, based on the increased
prices, DOPC would realize annual profits from year 1 onwards. Profits range
from Le 558,000 in Year 1 to Le 750,000 by Year 10. DOPC has accumulated
losses of approximately Le 683,000 and a loan from the Government of Le 1.9
million. To ensure DOPC-s liquidity and profitability, assurances were
obtained that out of the Le 1.9 million loan from the Government, Le 1.0
million be converted into equity, and the accumulated interest on the loan be
waived. The amount of Le 900,000 shall be paid over a period of not less than
10 years at an interest rate of not more than 11% on the outstanding balance.
However, payments shall not start until after the Le 683,000 accumulated loss
shall have been wiped out, estimated to be by the end of Year 2 (Annex 4b).
Rice Seed Supplies
4.20      Government has recently established a National Seed Committee
which will be responsible for regulating the release and withdrawal of
varieties, and will influence activities related to commercial seed produc-
tion in Sierra Leone.  The existing Seed Multiplication Unit (SMU) would
continue to produce all seed requirements for the project. The SMU operates
two irrigated seed farms of 8 ha each in the project area, and plans to
increase output through double cropping. In addition, it has contracted
with swamp rice farmers to produce certified seed under the Unit's supervi-
sion; some 100 ha are currently producing seed. The Unit's management has
given assurances that both swamp and upland seed requirements under the
proposed Phase III could and would be met. These requirements would peak at



- 31 -
37.5 tons for swamp rice in PY 4, based on replacement of seed every fourth
year. The project's upland rice seed demand is expected to reach 105 tons in
PY 3, and theoretically could increase to 245 tons and 350 tons in PY 4 and 5
respectively, if the replacement policy is adhered to. However, although
the project would advocate replacement, it is doubtful that all upland rice
farmers would purchase replacement seed in the fourth year.
D. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.21      PEMSU is responsible for the implementation and monitoring of all
the agricultural development projects in the country (para 1.17). The
internationally recruited positions that would be funded under the project
(para. 3.13) have the following responsibilities:
(a)  The Senior Sector Planner, the Project Planner, and the Agro-
statistician would work in close conjunction with the National
Central Planning Unit (in the Ministry of Development and Economic
Planning) in the preparation of a national development plan and in
the formulation of agricultural policies. They would also be
responsible for all sectoral data and analysis, as well as the
identification, preparation and assessment of development projects.
(b)  The Evaluation and Project Economists would assist in the planning
and preparation of projects and also be responsible for the monitor-
ing and evaluation of all on-going projects.
(c) The Financial Controller would be responsible for establishing
and supervising the accounting systems in all the projects, and
for training of accounting and auditing staff.
More detailed descriptions of the terms of reference and functions of this
mit are in Working Paper No. 2. It is anticipated that PEMSU would be
fully operational when the proposed project is effective. To properly carry
out its functions PEMSU's evaluation section--headed by the Project Econo-
mist--would have a Monitoring and Evaluation Cell (MEC) based in Kenema.
MEC would be equipped with one Field Control Officer, six Field Control
Assistants, one Evaluations Officer, three Senior Enumerators, nine Permanent
Enumerators, supporting staff and appropriate means of transport. The MEC
unit would be directly administered by the PM, who would also review the
work and findings of MEC with PEMSU; the work program would be established
in collaboration with PEMSU and the Project Development Committee. Local
consultants would be engaged to carry out a baseline socio-economic study of
the project area, as was done for the IFAD Magbosi IADP, and would make a
detailed design of the monitoring and evaluation activities to be carried
out by PEMSU and MEC during the first and following years. Except as
Government and IDA would otherwise agree, services of consultants would be
engaged by the Government not later than three months after credit effective-
ness, under terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to
IDA. Assurances would be sought to this effect during negotiations.



- 32 -
Reporting Requirements
4.22      In addition to the financial reporting requirements outlined in
para 3.21 and 3.22 , project management would be responsible for the prepara-
tion and submission of semi-annual and annual reports. As in the earlier
projects, these reports would reflect implementation and physical progress
based on the inputs of PEMSU and management staff. Reports would be submitted
to IDA for review not later than one month after the end of each half-year.
At negotiations assurance were obtained from Government to this effect, and
in addition, Government would prepare and furnish to IDA, promptly after
project completion, a project completion report in accordance with a format
and content acceptable to the Association.
V. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
5.01      No major attempt will be made by the Project to radically alter
existing cropping systems, and shifting cultivation is expected to continue
during the life of the project. Some promising results have been achieved
at Rokpur on crop combinations for permanent upland cropping and further
trials would be carried out under the proposed Adaptive Crop Research
Extension (ACRE) project. Estimated yield increases are shown in Table 3,
and details of crop production are in Annex 5.
Table 3: Estimated Yield Increases
(tons/ha)
Project Year                 0      1     2      3      4     5      6     7
Upland Rice 1/              0.7   0.9   1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
Swamp Rice  Pkg 1 2/        2.0   2.5   3.0   3.3 3/ 3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5
Swamp Rice  Pkg 2 2/        2.0   2.2   2.5   2.5    2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5
Cocoa Rehab.                0.28  0.38  0.45  0.50   0.50  0.50  0.50  0.50
Cocoa Plantings 4/           -    0.00  0.00  0.00   0.25  0.56  0.70  0.70
Coffee Rehab.               0.28  0.26  0.26  0.35   0.45  0.48  0.48  0.48
Coffee Plantings 5/          -    0.00  0.00  0.00   0.06  0.24  0.75  0.75
1/ Average yields of 1,590 kg/ha (LAC 23) obtained by project farmers
in the Bong Project in Liberia.
2/  Trials in Sierra Leone under Package 1 conditions gave main season crop
yields of more than 4,000 kg/ha, and under Package 2 conditions, up to
3,500 kg/ha (Rice Research Station, Rokupr).
3/ 10% dry season cropping in PY3 and 15% from PY4 on.
4/ Indications from SLPMB experience.
5/ Njala University trials gave average yields of over 2,000 kg/ha with 5
clones over a 5 year period.



- 33 -
5.02      Swamp Farming.  Farmers who only grow swamp rice would improve
their rice production under one of the two recommended packages for this
component. The average swamp rice holding under the project is approximately
1 ha, although in some cases larger areas have been developed where avail-
able family labor permits. Package I for swamps with good soils and good
drainage and irrigation possibilities would concentrate improvement of
already constructed dikes, bunds and peripheral irrigation canals, and
further clearing and leveling. Agronomic practices would include the use of
better varieties, proper nursery establishments, appropriate fertilizer
application (NPK 15:15:15 and Urea), spaced transplanted seedlings, weeding,
and water control to deter pests. Ten percent of the area under this package
is expected to be double cropped within the third year of development,
increasing to 15%. Package II swamps would be carefully selected to ensure
that they can be managed with limited engineering. Beause of their lower
potential, these swamps would receive lower fertilizer inputs, NPK: 115 kg/ha
instead of 245 kg/ha in Package 1 and Urea 50 kg/ha instead of 55 kg/ha.
The recommended rice varieties are C.P. 4, ROK6 and RH12; for the second crop
in the dry season Rok 11 and ROK 12 are recommended.
5.03      Under the project all land development and swamp drainage would be
done by the farmers themselves but the Land Planning Unit would select
swamps, design and peg out the work to be done.   For these technological
packages to succeed, well trained extension staff would provide follow-up
supervision to ensure that recommended techniques are used. Such supervision
would be needed for at least two cropping seasons, and would be combined with
adequate and timely supply of inputs--seed and fertilizer. Since farmers
traditionally depend on their upland for growing food crops, consisting of
rice and a range of vegetables and root crops, the production of these crops
would have to be assured. Thus swamp rice farmers would be encouraged to
develop the border areas of the swamps. Cassava, cocoyams, pineapples,
chilles, and other vegetables could be grown on areas of less than 5% slope,
and tree crops, especially fruit trees (plantains, bananas and citrus), on
steeper slopes. This system would reduce the farmer's time and labor, as it
confines his food crop activity to a fixed, permanent area and possibly
farmers who have suitable swamps could be persuaded to carry out multiple
cropping on a portion of the swamps, and by doing so stimulate expansion of
tree crops and increasing the fallow period.
5.04      Upland Farming.  Upland rice farmers would either improve their
rice cropping techniques or would participate in the coffee or cocoa compo-
nents consisting of either rehabilitation or new planting of one of these
crops. Under the project the farmer would be advised to use the main recom-
mended upland rice varieties - ROK 3 and LAC 23 - at a seeding rate of 70
kg/ha, seeding rate, on appropriate planting times, and to plant approximately
0.1 ha of cassava in rows (instead of in a scattered manner). He would be
encouraged to weed his upland rice crops, and, in the second year, to increase
his cassava stand by establishing additional rows to a purestand level. This
practice would ensure greater productivity from his cleared plot before it
reverts to fallow, and would conform to his normal cropping pattern. No
fertilizer is recommended at this time as the farmer depends on bush fallow
for soil improvement, and the benefits of fertilizer applications in the



- 34 -
conditions of the project area have not been demonstrated. More than 10,500
farmers would be assisted in this respect by the project. In consultation
with the research agencies, the project would promote longer and better
utilization of the cleared areas following upland rice, initially, by advocat-
ing the infilling of harvested rice area with cassava, followed by a fallow
with bush pigeon peas or other recommended plants. This practice is likely to
be accepted slowly by farmers, but could initiate a desirable type of change
in land use.
5.05      Cocoa Planting and Rehabilitation would be undertaken by a total
of 2,200 farmers only where suitable soils exist. Improvement would consist
of: (a) shade regulation; (b) proper spacing--mainly infilling, as reducing
the number of established mature cocoa trees is not recommended; (c) prun-
ing--mainly chupon (sucker) removal and removal of unproductive canopy in
young Upper Amazon; (d) proper weeding where necessary--closed canopy cocoa
usually requires no weeding; (e) black pod control through a regime of
spraying copper fungicide (Kocide 101), and the regular collection and
burying of diseased pods; and capsid control with insecticide (Gammalin 20).
Staff being trained by SLPMB-s expatriate cocoa specialist would spearhead
rehabilitation activities, which started in 1979. Under this rehabilitation
program, farmers undertake spraying with their own equipment and have
demonstrated enthusiasm for black pod control. The purchase of fungicides,
insecticides and CP3 Knapsack sprayers would be done either singly or
collectively in small groups. A minimum holding of 2 ha of rehabilitated
cocoa is required per allocation of a sprayer. Initially, seed for the
cocoa planting program would be obtained from clonal seed gardens in the
Ivory Coast, and grown in project nurseries; in the meantime, a clonal seed
garden established at Pendembu under Phase II of the project is to be
further developed and improved. While soils in the project area are struc-
turally suitable for cocoa growing, they appear nutritionally marginal for
the more demanding, early maturing Upper Amazon hybrids. Because no research
has been carried out, exact fertilizer requirements are not known; therefore
the project would recommend a gradual increase in the fertilizer rate up to
Year 4 after planting (from 50 to 300 kg/ha). Research would be carried
out through a small program, under the supervision of SMSs and AOs in farmer
fields and in Pendembu, to determine more precisely the fertilizer require-
ments of cocoa in the project area. Establishment would be carried out
under shade, preferably under bush regrowth with thinning out as required.
It is not recommended that completely cleared land be used for planting
cocoa because of the difficulties in getting farmers to maintain temporary
shade and to establish proper levels of permanent shade.  The cocoa planting
program is based on an average of 1.0 ha per farmer.
5.06      Coffee.  To increase yields from the dense stands, a coffee
rehabilitation program based on a five-year pruning cycle, with one-fifth of
the holding pruned each year, would be carried out under the project.
Carefully selected farmers would be trained in pruning techniques, given
guidance on shade regulation (shade trees removal is needed, with pruning to
prevent etiolation of new stems), plant density (mainly thinning), weeding
and fertilizer application (200 kg/ha). An average of 1.5 ha of coffee



- 35 -
planting would be developed per farmer, also over a five-year cycle. In
this way farmers would develop approximately 0.3 ha each year without hired
labor, and without straining his other crop commitments. The project would
also introduce the "Agobiada" system of bending and pegging seedlings to
promote controlled vigorous multi-stem development, and pruning on a five-
year cycle for rejuvenation. At full development, farmers would have an
even production of coffee, with 1/5 the holdings in a pruned stage, and 4/5
in full production. Some 1,250 farmers would participate in the rehabilita-
tion of existing coffee trees and would concentrate mainly on applying the
five-year pruning cycle.
5.07      Labor.  It is estimated that in addition to incremental family
labor hired labor would also be required for all project activities except
coffee planting. Upland food crops is estimated to require some 12% (30
man-days) of hired labor. Farmers are likely to utilize a higher proportion
of hired labor (38%) in swamp rice production. Hired labor requirements for
cocoa planting are expected to drop from 18% of total labor to nil by the
fifth year. However, farmers would themselves carry out regular spraying
against black pod disease, and, where necessary, against capsids. Labor
availability was identified as a problem in the previous project and was due
in most part to a changing socio-economic system. There is an increasing
demand by the younger members of the community for payment for work which
traditionally was done free or, at most, the cost of a meal. This factor
has been taken into consideration under the project, farmers would be given
credit to pay for hired labor so they are not likely to encounter labor
availability problems. The crop development packages as shown in the farm
models in Annex 6 have been designed to minimize the overlapping of cropping
activities so that both family and hired labor would be available for smooth
functioning of farm operations. However, farmers would initially require
guidance and assistance from the extension services in the organizing and
efficient use of labor in their farming operations, for which a trained and
improved extension service is essential.
5.08      Of the 100,000 farmers in the project area, some 55,000 to 60,000
farmers would be reached by the extension service. Of these, only about 20%
or 12,580 are expected to request a credit and are considered direct benefi-
ciaries. Anticipated participation would be as follows:
Table 4: Adoption Rate
No. of Farmers involved in Each Activity
Type of Activity         PY 1       2      3       4      5          Total
Upland                   350      700   1100   2200   2790           7140 1/
Swamp Rice               200      300    500    550    450           2000
Cocoa Rehab.             150      280    500    500      -           1430
Cocoa Planting           200      200    200    200      -            800
Coffee Rehab.            310      320    310    310      -           1250
Coffee Planting          340      500    660    500      -           2000
1/   The pruning technique for rehabilitation of coffee results in a
temporary drop in production, which is easily made up in later
harvests.



- 36 -
Environmental Considerations
5.09      The agricultural components of the project and the technology
proposed are likely to improve utilization of the resources of the project
area, and no damage to the environment is likely to result from this project's
activities. Although there is a low incidence of schistosomiasis in the
project area, a recent survey of villages associated with swamp development
under the project concluded that the snail population in rice swamps was
small, and there is no evidence that the swamp rice activity under the project
increases the incidence of this disease in the area. 1/
VI. DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Demand
6.01      At full development in 1990 the project would contribute incremen-
tal output of: 780 tons of cocoa; 2,650 tons of coffee; 4,500 tons of
husked rice (equivalent to 3100 tons of milled rice) and 16,900 tons of
cassava; 710 tons of palm oil and 140 tons of palm kernels. The incremental
production of food crops would be easily absorbed into the domestic market.
The country is a net importer of food, including rice which is the major
staple. Average per capita consumption of rice is between 100-125 kg per
annum and Government projections indicate that a deficit of about 30,000
tons of rice will persist in the 1980s despite the rice components in the
ongoing and planned agricultural development projects. The project area is
the major rice deficit region in the country; the incremental production of
rice and cassava which is a substitute for rice in the local diet would be
consumed within the project area.
6.02      Palm oil is another major component of the national diet, per
capita annual consumption is estimated at 13 kg and demand for domestic
consumption is projected at 48,000 tons in 1985, this excludes additional
demand for soap production. Annual production from the traditional processing
of wild palm is estimated at 31,000 tons while production from the existing
nucleus estates at Gambia-Mattru and Daru is estimated at 14,000 tons. So
there would be a deficit of at least 3,000 tons; at present the deficit is
filled by imported substitutes. Current imports of animal and vegetable oils
are about Le 4.3 million (1978). The palm kernels which are a byproduct
of the oil palm processing are purchased by the SLPMB and either exported or
processed into palm kernel oil and then exported. The incremental production
would be small and would face a ready demand in the export market. Furthermore
the SLPMB palm kernel oil mill is presently operating below capacity due to
inadequate supplies of palm kernels.
6.03      Coffee and cocoa are export crops which are major sources of foreign
exchange and government tax revenues. The country would not face any problems
in marketing the incremental production. Sierra Leone is a member of the
International Coffee Organization and has a quota of 16,000 tons which is con-
siderably in excess of its current production of 10,000 tons. The incremental
cocoa production (about 8% of current production) would be too small to cause
any concern in the international cocoa market.
1/   "Farmer Health Survey" - IADP, CUSO, CARE/Njala University College.



- 37 -
B. Marketing
6.04      The food crops would be marketed through the existing network of
private traders, which is adequate for handling the increased volume of
production. About 80% of the rice produced in the project area is tradi-
tionally processed by hand-pounding, yielding rice with 41% brokens and a
recovery rate of 68%. The remaining 20% is processed in small scale milling
facilities with recovery rates ranging between 50 and 67 percent. On-farm
storage is adequate and the current percentage of crop loss appears to be
small. Rice that is surplus to short-term on-farm consumption is sold to
itinerant traders for sale in Kenema and the nearby mining towns. Cassava
is marketed through contract harvesters/traders. The crop is sold standing
in the field to the trader who provides labor for harvesting and transporta-
tion to the market.
6.05     The coffee, cocoa and palm kernels would be marketed through the
SPLMB marketing system. The system operates efficiently but there is some
concern about producers receiving the official prices. In situtations of
farmer indebtedness and pledging of crops before harvest to the trader,
producer prices are often far below the official price. The entrance of the
FFC (paras 3.12 and 4.18) into the system would serve as a regulatory factor
since farmers would be able to compare prices paid by the FFC and the costs of
its credit with those of the commercial traders. This role of the FFC depends
on its operations reaching a level where it can compete effectively with the
traders and create uniformity in prices and credit terms.
C. Prices
6.06     With the exception of cassava, prices of the products are currently
set by the Government. The financial and economic prices used in the farm
budgets and calculations of the economic rate of return respectively are
shown in Table 5 below. They are based on the existing prices and IBRD
forecasts. For the tradable commodities, the economic border prices were
determined by the shadow exchange rate of US$1.00=Lel.20. Further details
on margins, distribution costs and the underlying assumptions are set out in
Working Paper 5. The current producer prices are 50% of the f.o.b. price
Freetown for coffee, 65% for cocoa (this includes a trading loss of Le 108
per ton by the SLPMB) and 47% for palm kernels.



- 38 -
Table 5. FARMGATE PRICES (constant 1980 Leones)
1980                    1985                      1990
Economic    Financial   Economic   Financial   Economic    Financial
Output:
Rice (Paddy)       325.7        277.5        471.6        419.0       485.3        431.1
Cassava            123.0       100.0         123.0        100.0       123.0        100.0
Palm oil           790.0       500.0         795.2        710.7       769.3        687.6
Palm kernel        407.3       201.6         402.1        296.8       384.7        277.5
Cocoa            3,637.2     2,125.5       2,928.5      1,619.6    1,923.3      1,055.9
Coffee           4,218.6     2,007.0       3,000.2      1,656.5    3,276.5      1,810.9
Inputs:
Urea                    325.5        291.2         415.5        369.0      436.0        387.0
N-P-K (15-15-15)        378.0        336.0         483.0        428.0      505.0        448.0
6.07      At the time of appraisal the pricing policy on palm oil appears to
have been inconsistent with the objective of reducing consumer prices. There
were no controls on consumer prices but the Government had set the millgate
price of palm oil at the two nucleus estates--DOPC and Gambia-Mattru at Le 500
per ton while the combined production of the two mills is apparently too small
(10% of total production) to have any influence on prices on the consumer
market which range from Le 925-Le 1000 per ton. The result had been very high
margins to the select traders who market the oil produced by these two mills
as shown below, in the analysis of prices at different levels in the marketing
system:
Le/ton
Millgate Price DOPC                 500
Traders margin                   270
Wholesale Price Kenema              770
Wholesaler-s margin               30
Retailer Price Kenema               800
Retailer's margin               125-200
Consumer Price                      925-1000
Mainly as a result of this very restrictive pricing policy the DOPC has been
experiencing financial difficulties. The selling price did not cover the
costs of production or permit the Company to pay more than Le 40 per ton of
fresh fruit bunches (ffb) to the smallholder outgrowers while the market
price is Le 56 per ton so that the Company has been unable to obtain ade-
quate supplies. An agricultural pricing study will be funded under the



- 39 -
recently approved IDA Technical Assistance Project. However, as an interim
action to rescue the operations of the DOPC the mission recommended that the
ffb price be raised to Le 56/ton and the millgate price to Le 650/ton. This
recommended millgate price was based on the analysis of margins and price
levels discussed above and the derivation of a millgate price of Le 705 per
ton based on a hypothetical import price of Le 642 derived from the IBRD
spot price and local distribution costs of Le 218 from port to consumer
market net of distribution costs of Le 153 from the Millgate to the consumer
market (further details in Working Paper No. 5). While recognizing the
limitations of such a partial approach, the available data indicate that
these prices would ensure the financial viability of the DOPC (Annex 4)
without causing any major adverse effects on the allocations of resources to
other crops. It was recommended that the DOPC should investigate the
possibility of selling directly to the wholesaler and/or retailer in Kenema.
The Government subsequently, in May, 1980 raised the prices to Le 660 per
ton of palm oil and Le 55 per ton of ffb which are adequate. Assurances were
obtained that these prices along with other agricultural prices would be
reviewed annually by the Government and IDA within the framework of market
monitoring that would be established under the proposed pricing study.
D. Financial Analysis
Financial Implications for Farmers
6.08       The financial returns to farmers who would participate in the
various crop development programs are summarized in Table 6 below (details in
Annex 6). The wide variations in returns reflect the differences in the
intensity of resource use in the tree crops as compared with rice as well as
the wide variations in yields obtained in the three types of rice cultivation.
All farmers would achieve an increase in net profit even if family labor is
costed at the market wage rate of Le 1.50 per manday which is about equal to
the opportunity cost of family labor. Since most of the improved techniques
are highly labor intensive, the average returns to labor may not increase very
much or may even fall, as in the case of cocoa rehabilitation; however the net
profit to all farmers would increase even after costing family labor, and the
average returns to family labor would still be higher than its opportunity
cost.
6.09      The total income effect on project farmers would depend on crop
combinations and farm sizes. Mainly because of labour constraints at peak
seasons a project farmer would not be able to improve all his crops simulta-
neously. The distribution of project farmers according to the feasible
improvement packages and the total income impact are shown in Annex 6 Table 3.
The incremental real income at full development in 1990 would range from
about Le 200 (US $190) for a Package 2 swamp rice farmer with 2.1 ha to Le
1,948 (US$1,855) for a farmer with 2.9 ha of which 1.5 ha are new plantings of
coffee, though it must be noted that the rice farmers would achieve full
increase in yields in about two years while the new coffee farmer with a



Table 6. Net Financial Return to Farmers per hectare in 1990
Constant 1980 Leones
Increase in       Increased
Without Project             With Project          Average Returns   Costs of
Net Return  Net Return  Net Return  Net Return   per               per   family        Increase in
per ha    per manday    per ha    per manday   ha            manday   labor 2/    Net Profit 3/
Swamp rice Pkg 1             666.3          5.5        1171.8        7.1         505.5        1.6    66.0             439.5
Swamp rice Pkg 2             663.3          6.5         850.4        7.4         187.1        0.9    19.5             167.6
Upland rice/cassava          300.7           1.2         453.6       1.7         152.9        0.5    46.5              106.4
Cocoa Rehabilitation         287.5         12.0          372.8       8.5          85.3      - 3.5    30.0               55.3          0
Cocoa New Planting 4/ 5/        -            -          479.9        6.6         479.9        6.6   109.5             370.4
Coffee Rehabilitation        477.0         13.6         737.4      17.6          260.4        4.0    10.5             249.9
Coffee New Planting 4/          -            -         1255.7      18.7         1255.7       18.7   100.5            1155.2
1.   (a)  These returns are based on the financial farm budgets in Annex 6 table and the farmgate price of inputs
and outputs - Working Paper No. 5
(b) They are net of all financial costs including hired labor.
(c) The net returns per manday indicate the returns to family labor.
2.   At Le 1.50 per manday.
3.   After costing family labor.
4.   In the planting of cocoa and coffee there would be some displacement of other farm activities and some loss
of incomes allowances for this have been in the overall farm budgets involving these two activities - Annex 6 and
Working Paper No.5
5.   Values for 1991 (after 6 year loan repayment period)



- 41 -
phased planting program would reach maximum income levels in ten years. The
preponderance of farmers in Model 3 (improvement of upland rice and cassava)
despite the relatively lower incomes reflects the importance attached by the
risk averse subsistence farmers to their main food crops rather than technical
or other constraints. On the basis of the present assumptions on prices
and yields, it would appear that coffee production is much more profitable
than cocoa, but some farmers seem to prefer growing cocoa either because they
are more familiar with its husbandry or they may have different price expecta-
tions. Others prefer a diversified production base and so grow both coffee
and cocoa.
Financial Implications for Government
6.10      The project would generate additional revenues to the Government
directly through the taxes on the export crops - coffee, cocoa and palm
kernels - as well as indirectly through taxation on the secondary economic
activities that would be induced by the project in the construction, process-
ing, trading and other servicing sectors. At full development in 1990 incre-
mental revenues from export taxation would amount to Le 6.3 m (US$6.0 m) in
current terms,a precise measure of the revenues that would be generated
indirectly is not possible at this time. The government cash flow is presented
in Annex 7; the negative flows in the implementation period are relatively
small, since about 90% of development costs are externally financed (IDA
US$12.0 million, BADEA US$8.5 million, UNDP US$2.0 million). The debt servic-
ing and recurrent costs in the post-implementation period would be offset by
the considerable increases in revenue from taxation of the increased exports
of coffee and cocoa that would be generated by the project. The recurrent
operational costs for servicing the investments made under the two previous
projects and which are not attributable to the proposed project, amount to
about Le 130,000 and will be borne entirely by the Government. At the end of
the investment period of the proposed Phase III project, an additional Le
620,000 (Annex 7 for details) would be required for the annual operational
costs of the agricultural services for about 5 years. By 1990, these re-
current costs should decline to about Le 500,000, as it is expected that
farmers would then be well versed in the techniques of improved husbandry
introduced under the project, and so fewer extension workers would be needed.
Furthermore, bottlenecks in the proposed system would have been identified,
and monitoring and evaluation activities would be reduced. The estimated
annual road maintenance costs would amount to Le 300,000 by the end of the
construction period and increase to about Le 400,000 by 1990 (Annex 7).
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits and Justification
7.01       Overall Benefits: It is estimated that there would be about 12,600
farm families (12% of total rural families in the Eastern province) who would
earn significantly higher incomes (para 6.09) under the various crop improve-
ment and credit programs. As indicated by the distributional pattern of farm



- 42 -
types in Annex 6, Table 3, all of these farmers earn per capita incomes below
US$200 per annum, while about 20% of them are below the relative poverty
income threshold of US$80 for Sierra Leone. As discussed in paras 6.08 and
6.09 above the wide variations in incremental incomes are due mainly to crop
combinations since farm sizes are fairly equal in the area, however, the
largest increases in incomes would accrue to the farmers currently earning the
lowest incomes (Models 6 and 7). The improvement of the road network and the
provision of village wells would reach beyond these direct beneficiaries to a
considerably larger proportion of the rural population. There would also be
spin-off effects from the strengthening of the institutional services and the
expansion of credit. It is estimated that at least 50% (50,000) of the rural
families in the Province would benefit in some way under the proposed project.
As Sierra Leone is a net importer of food (para 6.01) the incremental foodcrop
production would represent potential annual net foreign exchange savings of at
least US$6.0 m at border prices (Le 7.2 million in domestic currency, shadow
priced at Le 1.20 = US$1). While incremental foreign exchange earnings (net
of imported inputs) per annum from the export crops would be about US$8.0 m
by 1990 (in real 1980 terms).
7.02      The training programs and institution building to be introduced
under the project would improve local capability and facilitate planning and
implementation of future development programs. By 1990, annual on farm
employment would increase by 745,000 man-days (12% paid labor and 88% family
labor). Additional employment would also be created by the increase in the
level of economic activity that would be induced by the project in other
sectors such as trading, rice processing, construction, transportation, etc.
Economic Rate of Return
7.03      The Economic Rate of return is estimated to be 34% (Annex 8, Table
1). The important assumptions underlying the analysis are:
a) Benefits: Only the benefits from incremental crop production that
would be directly generated by this project are included. For the rice
components which are currently in Phase II, all future incremental
production are attributed to Phase III since in its absence production
would stagnate at current levels. Yields, acreages and production are
as in Chapter 5. The economic farmgate prices and the bases of their
derivation are in Working Paper No. 5;
b) Costs: Only investment, and operating and maintenance costs that
are directly related to the generation of the identified benefits are
included. The costs of the special studies, are excluded since they
generate benefits which cannot be easily identified and which extend
beyond the direct beneficiaries. Eighty percent of the costs of PEMSU
are excluded since they are attributable to the four other agricultural
projects in the country. For operations after the five year development
period it is assumed that a smaller agricultural and extension staff
would be required to maintain the momentum achieved. The phased decline
in recurrent cost are shown in Annex 8, Table 1;
c) Shadow pricing: All foreign exchange costs and benefits are shadow-
priced at an exchange rate of Le 1.20 = US$1 which is based on the
existing restrictions on trade. Fifty percent of the costs of inter-
nationally recruited personnel are considered foreign exchange costs to



- 43 -
reflect the proportion of their incomes kept abroad and the import content
of their expenditures, the remaining 50% are considered domestic costs and
are not shadow priced. Given the labor situation in the area, hired and
family labor is priced at the average market wage of Le 1.50 per man-day;
d) Project life: The economic life of the project is assumed to be 25
years including a 5-year implementation period.
Risks and Sensitivity
7.04      The proposed project would be the third phase in the area and
would build upon the organizational structures and techniques developed in
the previous phases so that normal risks associated with projects of this
kind would be minimized. However, three factors could impose severe con-
straints on the project:
(i) a delay in appointing the Senior Training Officer and the Senior
Credit Specialist - two key positions since extension and credit are
the two crucial elements in achieving the project targets,
(ii) a delay in achieving an effective extension service.
(iii) shortage of funds by the FFC to purchase recurrent input requirements
at the appropriate time,
Therefore the positions of Senior Training Officer and Senior Credit Special-
ist have been identified for international recruitment and their appointments
have been made conditions of credit effectiveness (para 4.07) in order that
effective extension and input supply programs could be implemented without
delay. Furthermore, the provision of adequate funding for recurrent inputs
would be a project covenant (para 3.20). Technical risks are minimal for the
new components because the proposed techniques are simple and do not require
major changes in the cropping patterns, the agronomic recommendations are
based on experimental results and experiences in the area.
7.05      Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the impact of
various adverse factors on the economic rate of return (ERR) and determine
which variables would be most crucial to the success of the project. As a
measure, switching values?l/ using an opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of
15%, were computed. The numerical results indicated that in its present
design the project is resilient to the possible risks and would remain viable
under adverse conditions in any of its components. Total benefits would have
to decrease by about 50% (through a shortfall on yields, prices, area or any
combination thereof) before the project becomes economically unviable   The
project is also insensitive to increases in costs. there would have to be
an increase of 106% in total costs before the project would be economically
unviable. A more detailed sensitivity analysis is presented in Annex 8
Table 2.
1/   The switching value is the value of the variable tested at which the
net present value (NPV) of the net benefit stream of the project,
discounted at the OCC, is zero, in other words, the value beyond which
the ERR would be below the OCC. The switching value may be interpreted
as a measure of how far the variable can differ from its most likely
value before the project becomes economically unviable.



- 44 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The following assurances were obtained from the Borrower during
negotiations and included as project covenants:
(a) that MOW would make arrangements satisfactory to IDA for (i) CARE to
carry out the road construction and maintenance programme (para
3.09); (ii) taking over and maintaining roads completed by CARE
(para 3.09). In addition, MOW would submit (i) a program satisfac-
tory to IDA by January 31, 1981 for upgrading the main roads from
Manowa junction to Sefadu and Daru to Joru to an all weather capa-
bility (para 3.09); (ii) put the programme into effect by March 31,
1981 and (iii) by January 31 of each year, submit the annual work
programme for adequate maintenance of trunk and feeder roads in
the project area (para 3.09);
(b) appointment of FFC as a Licensed Buying Agent for coffee and cocoa
before March 31, 1981 (para 3.12);
(c) consultant services would be engaged to carry out the research
and training programs, and review the road program, under terms
of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA
(para 3.14);
(d) consultants' services would be engaged to carry out a baseline
survey, under terms of reference and conditions of employment
satisfactory to IDA not later than three months after credit
effectiveness (paras 3.14 and 4.21);
(e)  Government would replenish any funds disbursed for expenditures
not eligible for financing from the revolving account for roads
construction (para 3.20);
(f) on the basis of the approved budget, Government would (i) make
appropriate allocations in the MAF budget and release the necessary
funds available to MAF quarterly in advance and (ii) make timely
allocations of the necessary foreign exchange for the importation of
recurrent farm inputs and other goods (paras 3.17 and 3.21);
(g) Government would cause MAF, FFC and DOPC to make satisfactory
accounting, auditing and reporting arrangements (para 3.22), and
would ensure that project progress reports and a project completion
report are submitted as specified by IDA (para 4.22);
(h) the positions of: Project Manager, Project Engineer, Projects
Coordinator, Senior Training Officer, Farm Credit Specialist, Senior
Sector Planner, Project Planner, Financial Controller, and Project
Economist would be held by qualified competent staff acceptable to
IDA and under terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
IDA (paras 4.06 and 4.07);
(i) Government agreed to the removal of all subsidies on fertilizers by
the end of the 1985 cropping season and have submitted a timetable



- 45 -
for annual reductions, starting in the 1982 season, of about 25% of
the existing subsidy (para 4.17);
(j) Government would set the seasonal and medium-term interest rates
charged under the project at 20 and 15% per annum respectively, and
chese interest rates would be reviewed annually with IDA (para
4.17);
(k)  Government agreed to increase the equity of the FFC by Le 500,000
through capital contributions of Le 400,000 from the Central
Government and Le 100,000 from the SLPMB (para 4.18);
(1) conversion of (i) the cumulative surplus of the Farmers Finance
Company into equity, (ii) Le 1.0 million of Government's Le 1.9
million loan to DOPC into equity, with interest on this loan waived
(paras 4.18, 4.19); and
(m)  prices on fresh fruit bunches and palm oil for the Daru Oil Palm
Company would be reviewed with IDA, annually, and maintained within
the framework of market monitoring (para 6.07).
8.02      The following would be conditions of disbursement against expendi-
tures concerning:
(a) the penetration roads component - the borrower would (i) establish
a special revolving account for the road construction program (para
3.17), (ii) commence the upgrading to all weather capability of the
Manowa junction to Sefadu and Daru to Joru roads (para 3.09), and
(iii) enter into a contractual agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
with CARE (para 3.09); and
(b) the Daru Oil Palm Company - the borrower would acquire 300 ha land
suitable for oil palm growing in the neighborhood of the DOPC
nucleus estate, and pay appropriate compensation for such land,
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.11).
8.03      The following would be conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the proposed BADEA
loan of US$8.5 million had been fulfilled (para 3.17);
(b) the execution of financial agreements between (i) the Government
and the DOPC, and (ii) the Government and the FFC, for the onward
transmission of funds in the form of equity holdings by the
Government (para 3.17).
(c) recruitment of the Senior Training Officer and Senior Credit
Specialist (para 4.07).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$12.0 million.



SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOIREMNT PROJECT III                                                ANNEX 1
Summary of Costs
(Le '000)
Project Year                           1              2               3              4              5                 Total          Foreign Exchange
Amount        %
1.  Project Management                             627.2          398.5           425.8          389.4          470.9             2,311.8          1,266.0      55.0
2.  Extension and Training                         758.0          669.3           810.5          721.6          811.4             3,770.8          1,914.8      51.0
3. Engineering Services
A.  General Administration                     274.1          293.9           154.2           51.8           37.2               811.2            433.7      53.0
B.  Land Planning                              151.7          188.1          185.6           251.3          208.2               984.9            435.4      44.0
C.  Wells                                      113.0          109.4          104.2           171.3          134.0               631.9            323.5      51 0
D.  Workshop                                  221.9           205.2           83.6          126.3            93.5               730.5           414.1       5b .0
E.  Roads                                   1,389.9           534.2          728.9         1,035.2          862.0             4,550.2         3,566.1       70.0
4.  Monitoring and Evaluation                      142.5          106.9           138.3          156.7          155.0               699.3            264.8      38.o
5.  Farmers Finanoe Company                        712.6          312.4           384.o          463.9          296.0             2,168.9          1,699.2      78.0
6.  Daru Oil Palm Company                          478.4          432.4           179.4          200.2          198.7             1,489.1            961.9      65.o
7.  PEMSU                                          613.5          591.6          821.6           962.1          864.3             3,853.1         2,571.2       67-o
8. Production Inputs
A.  Seedlings                                  158.1          283.5          451.4           661.6          634.7             2,189.4         1,228.6       56.o
B.  Fertilizers                                 21.9           74.6          144.8           251.1          319.3               811.6            716.9      88.o
C.  Insecticides                                12.6           34.7           64.5           104.8           89.2               305.9           270.6       88.o
D.  Tools                                       19.5           31.8           53.9            58.3           33.6               197.1            174.7      88.0
E.  Labor/Crop Loss                             36.5           58.9           85.o           108.7           88.8               379.9             -          -
9.  Special Studies                                119.8           83.6           60.4            51.0           -                  314.7            314.7    100.0
Total                                5,851.2        4,409.0        4,876.1         5,765.3        5,296.8            26,198.4         16,556.2      63.2



- 47 -                             ANNEX 2
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                                                       Cumulative
Quarter                                 Disbursement              Disbursement
FY  81   4th Quarter                              O.1                      0.1
FY  82   1st Quarter                             0.3                      0.4
2nd Quarter                             1.0                      1.4
3rd Quarter                             1.4                      2.8
4th Quarter                             0.3                      3.1
FY  83   1st Quarter                             0.5                       3.6
2nd Quarter                            0.5                       4.1
3rd Quarter                            0.5                       4.6
4th Quarter                            0.5                       5.1
FY  84   1st Quarter                             0.5                      5.6
2nd Quarter                            0.5                       6.1
3rd Quarter                            0.7                      6.8
4th Quarter                            0.7                       7.5
FY  85   1st Quarter                             0.5                      8.0
2nd Quarter                            0.5                      8.5
3rd Quarter                            0.5                      9.0
4th Quarter                             0.5                     9.5
FY  86   1st Quarter                             0.5                     10.0
2nd Quarter                            0.5                     10.5
FY  86   3rd Quarter                             O.5                     11.0
4th Quarter                             0.5                     11.5
FY  87   1st Quarter                             O.5                     12.0



- 48 -
SIERA LEorE
Eastern Integrated Agwleultuwsl Development Project III                                                  4    3s
Projected Cash Flow - Farmers' Finance Company
('000)
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6      Year 7    Year 8    Year 9   Year 10   Year 11   Year 12   tear 13
Inflow
I/
Government Contribution -                       815.5    877.9    1,326.4   1,771.0   1,084.6
Share Capital  2/                               300.0     200.0       -         -         -
Loan Repayments:
Seasonal  3/                                   94.6    190.6       359.8    685.5    899.5        763.5      935.8   1,029.7      94668   1. o67.4   1,132.0     995.8   1,o64.6
Development -                                  -         10.9       42.2      97.2   _263.4       469.o      698.9     965.6  ___85         620.8      366.6      914       42.9
Subtotal             4                           94.6    201.5       402.0    782.7  1,162.9   1,232.5    1,634.7   1,995.3   1,745.3   1,688.2   1,498.6   1,087.2   1,107.5
Less: 10% Bad Debts 4                             9.5      20.2       40.2      78.3    116.3       123.2      163.5    199.5       174.5     168.8.    149.9      108.7     110.8
85.1    181.3       361.8    704.4   1,046.6   1,109.3    1,471.2   1,795.8   1,570.8   1,519.4   1,348.7        978.5      996.7
Commissions-/                                   12.6       28.1       51.2      84.6     113.1      170.3      242.4    314.5       362.8     371.8     371.8      371.8     37i.8
Total Inflow                                  1,213.2   1,287.3   1,739.4   2,560.0   2,244.3   1,279.6    1,713.6   2,110.3   1,933.6   1,891.2   1,720.5   1,350.3   1,368.5
Outflow
Farm Inputs:
Seasonal                                      55.2      137.5      262.3    495.1       687.0     751.4      841.0    891.4       773.8     841.0      891.4     773.8     841.0
Development                                  158.7    295.8        466.4    606.2    544.0         32.6        8.2       6.o        3.0
Subtotal                                        213.9    433.3       728.7   1,101.3   1,231.0      784.o      849.2    897.4       776.8     841.0      891.4     773.8     841.0
Vehicles and Equipment                          264.8    292.0       139.9     375.5      153.8      75.0       75.0       75.0      75.0      75.0       75.0      75.0      75.0              a-
Buildings                                      270.0       40.5       88.5      -          -         -          -          -         -         -          -         -         -
Salaries 8/                                    272.2    316.3        332.0     274.0      287.6     273.2      258.8     244.5      244.5     244.5     244.5      244.5     244.5
Operating and Maintenance -/                   136.2    231.9        263.7    284.8       304.5     289.5      260.3    221.3       221.3     221.3      221.3     221.3     221.3
Total Outflows                                1,157.1  1,314.0    1,552.8   2,035.6   1,976.9   1,421.5    1,443.3   1,438.2   1,317.6   1,381.8   1,432.2   1,314.6   1,381.8
Surplus (Deficit)                               56.1      (26.7)     186.6    524.4       267.4    (141.9)     270.3      672.0    616.0    509.4        288.3      35.7      (13.3)
Cumulative Surplus (Deficit)                    56.1       29.4      216.0    740.4   1,007.8       865.9    1,136.2   1,808.3   2,424.3   2,933.7   3,222.0  3,257.7    3,244.4
1/  Staff costs, vehicles and equipment, operating and maintenance costs and farm inputs.
2/ Agreed increase in Share Capital
3/ See Tables on Repayments - Development and Seasonal Loans. Working Paper No. 3.
/ 10% of amount due estimated to be uncollectable.
/ See Table on FFC Commission as Licensed Buying Agent. Working Paper No. 3.
6 See Table on Summary of Farm Input Costs to Project. Working Paper No. 3.
Average of vehicle replacement.
0/ Salaries and operating and maintenance costs reduced by 5% yearly from year 6 to 8.



S3IRRA LEONE
Easterni Integrated Agricu3tural Development Project III                                                            ANNEX 3b
Projected Profit and Loss Statement - Farmers' Finance Company
('00o)
Year      Year 2    Year 2    Year 4        Year 5      Year 6    Year 7    Year 8   Year 9   Year 10   Year 1   Year 12   Year 13
Income
Loans      1/
Seasonal -                                      70.'      162.9      307.5       585.9       768.8      652.6      799.8     880.1    109.2       912.3      967.5      851.1      909.9
Development -                                  170.5      316.'      492.8       610.8       545 ,    198.8       1C1.8       88.6      44.                    -
Subtotal                  2/                     240.8      479.2      800.3    1,196.7    1,314.1        851.4      901.6     968.7    853.5       912.3      967.5      851.1      909.9
Less cost of Farm Inputs -                       213.9      433.3      728.7    ],]01_'    1,231.0        784.o      849.2      897.4    776.8      841.0      891.4      773.8      841.0
Gross Profit on Loans -/                          26.9       45.9       71.6        95.4        83.1       67.4       5?.4       71.7      76.7       71.'      76.1        77.3       68.9
Interest on Loans
Seasonal 4/                                    2].0        27.7       5S.7        99.6       130.7      11C.9      136.0      149.6    137.6      155.1      164.5      144.7      154.7
Developmet t                                    25.6       76.8      160.5       270.1       3''4.      364.9      361.7      318.9    221.7      135.3       62.4        16.8        5.6
Subtotal                                          37.6      104.5      212.8       370.7       465.C      475.8      527.7      468.5    359.3      290.4      226.9      161.5      160.3
CommissiLn6/                                      12.6       28.1       51.2        84.6       113.1      170.3      242.4      314.5    362.8      371.8      371.8       371.8     371.8
Total Income                                      77.1      178.5      335.f6      55C.7       661.2      713.5      822.5      854.3    798.8       733.5      674.8      610.6      601.0
Expenses
Salaries                                         25'C.0     279.9      279.9       219.9       219.9      208.9      197.9      186.9    186.9      186.9      186.9       186.9      186.9
Onerating and Maintenance 7/                     134.9      176.5      1F6.6       188.1       188.1      178.7      l69.'      159.9    159.9       159.9      159.9      159.9      159.9
Bad Debts 8/                                        9.5      210.2      4(1.        78.'       116.'      12a.2      167.5      199.5    174.5       168.8      149.9      108.7      110.8
Denreciation-                                      -          -          -          -           -         110.0      110.(      110.0    110.0      110.0      110.0       110.0      110.0
Total Expenses                                   397.4      476.6      506.7       486.3       524.3      620.8      640.7      656.'    6!1.'       625.6      606.7      565.5      567.6
Net Profit (Loss)                               (320.3)   (298.1)   (171.1)         64.4       136.9       92.7      181.8      19F.0    167.5       107.9       68.1       45.1       33.4
Cumulative Profit (Loss)                        (320.3)   (618.4)   (789.5)    (725.1)    (588.2)   (495.5)   (313.7)   (115.7)    51.8              159.7      227,8      272.9      306.3
1/   See Tables on Seasonal Loans and Repayments and Development Loans respectively.  Working Paper No. 3.
7/   See Table on Summary of Farm Input Cost to Project. Working Paper No. 3.
3/ Renresents mark-up on inputs.
i/ See Table on Seasonal Loans and Repayments. Working Paper No. 3.
5/ See Table on Pepayments on Development Loans. Working Paper No. 3.
/    See Table or, IFC Commission ae Licensed Buying Agent. Working Paper No. 3.
7/   Salaries an, onerating and maintenance shown at base cost to match cost of inputs shorn also at base cost; expensen reduceP by 5rS yearly from year 6 to 8.
7/ 1C1 of Loans.
9/  2PO< of vehicles and equipment of Le 450,000 ano 5, buildinpg coat of Le 4(0,200 berirninp yeRr 6.



SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Daru Oil Palm Company
CASH FLOW
'000 Le
FY1        FY2       FY3        FY4         FY5       FY6         FY7        FY8        FY9       FY10
OUTFLOWS
Personnel                            277.3      279.6      296.1      324.9      318.8      301.9      301.4      302.2      305.9    302.3
Vehichles & Equipment                305.9      360.o       54.4      100.2       33.2       42.0       65.5       89.4      107.5    107.5
Buildings                            129.0       91.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0
Operations & Maintenance             326.4      350.7      401.5      437.1      403.7      372.5      371.5      369.4      368.7    365.9
FFB from outgrowers at
Le 60/ton                           168.0      234.0      294.0      300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0      270.0      240.0    180.0
TOTAL                               1206.6     1315.3    1047.0    1163.2    1056.7    1021.4    1043.4    1036.0    1027.1    960.7
INFLOWS
Palm Oil at Le 650/ton              1300.0    1462.5    1612.0    1638.0    1644.5    1644.5    1644.5    1625.0    1657.5   1644.5
Kernels at Le 235/ton                 81.1       89.3       98.7      101.0      101.1      101.1      101.1       99."      103.4      99.9
TOTAL                               1381.1    1551.8    1710.7    1739.0    1745.6    1745.6    1745.6    1724.9    1760.9   1744.4
NET                                  174.5      236.5      663.7      575.8      688.,o    724.2       702.2      688.9      733.8    783.7
Note
Present interest payments on Government loan amount to Le 155 thousand per annum, it has been requested that
the loan be converted to equity



SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOBdENT PRWECT III
Daru Oil Palm Company
Projected Profit/Loss Statement
(Le '000)
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Year 6        Year 7        Year 8        Year 9       Year 10       Year U        Year 12
Income       -
PaJlm Oil 1/                       1,300.0       1,462.5       1,612.0       1,638.o       1,644.5       1,644.5      1,644.5        1,625.0       1,657.5       1,644.5       1,651.0       1,677.o
Kernels 2                             81.1          89.3          98.7         101.0         101.1         101.1         101.1          99.9         103.4          99.9         110.5         122.2
Total Income                            1, 81.1       1,551.8       1,710.7       1,739.0       1,745.6       1,745.6       1,745.6       1,724.9       1,760.9       1,744.4       1,761.5       1,799.2
Expenses
Salaries and Wages                   328.8         277.3         279.6         296.1         324.9         318.8         301.9         301.4         302.2         305-9         302.3         291.7
Field Establishment Cost              -             -             38.4          68.4          35.4           9.2           8.2           4.4          -             -             29.5          53.9
Maintenance and Harvesting            53.6          54.7          55.3          55.9          56.3          56.3          56.3          55.0          57.7          55.0          48.o          42.2     '
Operating Cost                       194.5         215.7         227.5         232.5         231.7         226.7         226.7         229.7         230.7         230.6         241.2         238.7
Building Maintenance                  13.0          25.0          25.0          25.0          25.0          25.0          25.0          25.0          25.0          25.0          25.0          25.0
Overheads                             55.3          55.3          55.3          55.3          55.3          55.3          55.3          55.3          55.3          55.3          55.3          55.3
Soil Survey                           10.0          -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -
FFB Purchases 3/                     168.0         234.0         294.0         300.0         300.0         300.0         300.0         270.0         240.0         180.0         210.0         270.0
Depreciation.i/                       -             78.1         136.1          82.5          97.9          75.6         100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0
Total Expenses                            823.2         940.1       1,111.2       1,115.7       1,126.5       1,o66.9       1,073.4       1,040.8       1,010.9         951.8       1,011.3       1,076.8
Net Profit (Loss)                         557.9         611.7         599.5         623.3         619.1         678.7         672.2         684.1         750.0         792.6         750.2         722.4
At Le 650 per ton.
At Le 235 per ton.
3/ Purchases of FFB from smallholders at Le 60 per ton.
Depreciation for building at 5% per annu  starting at year 3; vehicles and equipment are depreciated at 20% per annum leveling off at an average
of Le 100,000 per annum from year 7.



SIERRA LEONE
ANNEX S
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
TOTAL AND INCREMENTAL. PRODUICTION
SUMMARY
(metric tons)
1        2        3        4        5         6        7        8    912
SWAMP' RICE P1(6 1
WITH                           250.0   550.0   880.0  1355.0  1605.0  1695.0  1740.0  1750.0  1750.0
WITHOUJT                       200.0   400.0   600.0   900.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000,0  1000.0  l1.oo.oo
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION          50.0   150.0   2830.0   455.0   605.0   695.0   740.0   750.0   750.0
SWAMP RICE PK(6 2
WI'TH                          220.0   690.0  1630.0  2630.0  3630+0  3750.0  3750.0  3750.0  3750.0
WITHOUT                        200.0   600.0  1,400.0  2200.0  3000.0  3000.0  3000.0  3000.0  3000.0
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION          20.0    90.0   230.0   430.0   630.0   750.0   750.0   7,50.0   7,50.0
UJPLAND RICE
W'I.TH                         450.0  1400.0  280 . 0  5700.0  9600.0 10000 .0 1.0000,0 :10000).0 :10000  .0
WIT-HOUJT                      350 .0  1050 .0  2100.0  4200 .0  7000.0  7000.0  7000.0  7000.0  7000.0
INCREME-NTAL. PRODUCTION      1.00.0   350.0   750.0  :1500.0  2600 .0  3000.0  3000 .0  :3000.0  3000 .0
TOTAL RICE               170.0   590.0  :1260.0  23835.0  3835.0  4445.0  4490.0  4500.0  4500 .0
CO0FFFEEl REHFIA
WI'TH                          130.0   260.0   4 35J.0   660. 0   770.0   880.0   9 4,5 .0   960.0   960,0
WIT'HOUT'                      140.0   280.0   420.0   560.0   560.0   560.0   560.0   560.0   560.0
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION         100   -20.0    :1.50   :100,0   210.0   320.0   385.0   400.0   400.0
COFFE:E PL A NTIANG
WITH1                            0.0      0.0       0.0    30.0   165.0   61.5.0  1222.5  1867.5  2250,0
INCREMENTAL ~~PRODUCTION     0.0       0,0      0,0     30.0   165.0   615.0  1.222..     875   221.50 . 0
TOTAL. COFFEE             10.      2  0      15.0   130.0   375.0   9:35 .0  1 6 07.5  2.267.5  2650 .0
COCOA PP.1::-lAB
WITH-                          :39.0   1.23.0  2..76.5   444,0    4 82 .5   500.0 50  5        500.(    5(00
W i': TH C)LJT                  20,B0    84. 0    182,0   200.0   280. 0   2180 .0   280 .0   280.0   280 0
I NCREME'NTAL. FRO,'DLUCTION    II  C)   :39.0    9 4   , 5   164. 0   2.02.5   220.0   220 .0   2:0. .0  ")t'2  0
COCO   PLANTING
W11 0.rI                          .0      0,0      0.0      50.0   1.62.0   302. 0   442.0   5:32110   56.
INCREMENTAL P~I-RO.DUC,TI0ON  0.0      0. 0     0.0    50+0    162. C   302.+0   442.*0   532 .0   560 C.0k
TOTAL. COCOA              11 .0    39 .0    94 5 521.14.0  '36 4 .5   522.0   66 .)2 . l   '752 0   700 01
CASSAVo ):fNIER-CR0F:
WITf I.-I                      400, C  1~300, o  2700,0  -5 4 0 0 .0  9200.0 10000 1000  0100.  10000 .0
W I THOUT1 I 7                 250.0 j 75(1, 0  1500,. 0  3000.0. 5000.0  5,J0 00 . 0  5000.0  5000.0(  5 0.0 '. ~
I: N C RE ..M INT("L FPRODUCT ION  I15 0 ,0   55i0 .0  :1 20f0 . 0  2400 .0  4::?0 0O  5000 .0  50 C) . 0  5'000, (1 "500
WlIT H                        :11390. 0  :3-57(1 .0  71.40 +0 1 428(1 .0 213800 .0 2.1380 0 .0( 2 -h0''C 2 3,8 0 0   x2:3 R 0 
WI :i H-ioUT                   595.*0  J.7 85. 0  :357(1. C)  71.40. 0 11.900.0 :11.900.0 1.1 90 0.0 It.1901 .0 1:1.9 (vJ
INCFlR:EME..NTAIL. P'RODUCTION  1595.- .0  ty7s 5 0  :3570.0C  71.4(0 *0 1.1900k~ 0 1.1.900. (1- 1.190C)* C 119CC). C) :1.1 9  C
TOTAL C:AS_SAYA            :'74 !. j,0  2335 * (  477 0 1)  9'5 4 0.0C :1.L 100.0 16+900.0 :1.6,9CC) . 0 16 9 00 * C' 169 0 0 



SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Financial Crop Budget for 1 Hectare
(Constant 1980 Leones)
Swamp Rice Package 1            Swamp Rice Package 2            Upland Rice/Cassava
Unit      Present -       1990 ------      Present ------1990------        Present ------1990 
w/o       w                     w/o         w                     w/o        w
1/         1/         1/
Yields:  Paddy                   tons/ha        2.0        2.0        3.5        2.0        2.0        2.5        0.7        1.0        1.0
Cassava                 tons/ha       -          -          -          -          -          -          0.5 1/    1.0 1/    1.0 1/
Unit Prices:  Paddy              Le/ton      277.5      431.1      431.1      277.5      431.1      431.1      277.5      431.1      431.1
Cassava           Le/ton        -          -          -          -          -          -        100.0      100.0      100.0
Gross Value of Production        Le/ha       555.0      862.2    1508.9       555.5      862.2    1077.8        244.2      351.7      531.1
Costs of Production
Seedlings & Setts           Le/ha         -          -         10.0        -          -         10.0        -          -         12.0
Fertilizers                 Le/ha        53.2       70.9      131.1       53.2       70.9       70.9        -          -          -
Pesticides                  Le/ha         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          n
Tools and Equipment         Le/ha        20.0       20.0       25.0       20.0       20.0       25.0        4.5        4.5        5.5
Hired Labour                Le/ha       105.0      105.0      126.0      108.0      108.0      121.5       46.5       46.5       57.0
Interest                    Le/ha         -          -         45.0        -          -                     -          -          3 0
Total                        Le/ha       178.2      195.9      337.7      181.2      198.9      227.4       51.0       51.0       77.5
Net Value of Production          Le/ha       377.8      666.3    1171.8       373.8      663.3      850.4       193.2      300.7      453.6
Family Labour               Md/ha       122        122        166.0      102        102        115        242        242        273
Return per manday of
family labour                Le/md         3.1        5.5        7.1        3.7        6.5        7.4        0.8        1.2         1.7
T/  These are yields for 9/10 of a hectare of rice and 1/10 of a hectare of Cassava, since these are the ratios in which the                     q
crops are interplanted.                                                                                                                     a 
F-. ON



SIE1T7A LEON).'
EASTERN INTIGRAT'I';D ACRI CU LTURAT, D).VEL,01 li.NT PROM'OCT
Financial Crop Ludgets for 1 Hectare 1/
(Constant 19,9 Leones)
C O C 0 A                                  C 0 F F E E
New                                      New
Rehabilitation          Planting           Rehabilitation        Planting
Unit       Present        1990 -         w 1990       Present -----1990-------   w 1990
w/o         w                              w/o        w
Yields                        tons/ha           .28       .28       .5         0.7         .28       .28       ,48        .75
Unit Prices                   Le/ton       2125      1056      1056         1056       2007      1811      1811       lSll
Gross Value of Production           Le/ha         595       296       528         739.2      562       507       869       135,.2
2/
Coats of Production
Seedlings                     Le/ha            -         -        -            -          -                   -          -
Fertilizers                                    - -       -        -         134.4         -                  89.6       89.6
Pesticides                                     -         -      126.8         93.6        -                   6.0        5.9
Tools & Equipment                "             4.0       4.0      16.3        16.3        -                   2.0        2.0
Hired Labour                     "             4.5       4.5       4.0         -         30.0      30.0      30.0        -
Interest 3/                     U                                 8.0         15.0        -                   4.0        5.0
Total Costs of Production                           8.5       8.5    155.1        259.3       30.0      30.0    131.6       1C2.5
Net Value of Production                          .586.5    287.5    372.9         479.9      532.0    477.0    737.4    1255.7
Fa,m,Ily Labour               Md/ha           24        24       44           73         35        35        42         67
11et Returns per
m.anday oZ fa7ily labour    Le/md            24.4      11.,9      8.5         6.6       15.2      13.6      17.6       18.7
1/  These calculations are based on the crop assumptions in Annex  Table
2/ These estimates do not include the costs of rehabilitation and development which are charged against
production inthe y=ars prior to 1990 as shown in Woricing Paper No. 1
3/ Interest charges are for 10 months based on a rate of 20% p.a.
Ic-.



SIERRA LEONE
4ASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICRULTURAL D4EVLOPMENT PROJECT III
FARM MODFLS
Real ?980 prices
Ylrlde  (tons/he)                                                                                                       (L.)et Ice (Le)
I,Wproe  d                             With Project               Area (ha)                                                                                                                   E N. 0
Model          Activity                   coder project      Present 2           1985           1990         w/0          W          Pr--Cnt              7/i           W        Tocromeotel           WO             0        Oncronental fa,e
1   S.ep rieM  Pkg 1               X               2.00               3.50           3.5O        1.0          1.0         377.8            645.4        1135.3           4139.9          686.3         1171.8         505.5
Coffee                                             0.28               0.28           0.28        1.0          1.0         532.0            434.0         434.1)             -            477.0          477.0
Other |                                                                                         0.0.55.0                                   150.0         150.0              -            150.0          15n.o
otal                                                                                    2.0           2.0        101.8            12209.4       1719.3           489.9          1293.3        1798.8          505.5         SRI'
unuop rice P.cg ?                 X               2.00               0.50           2.50       1.0           1.0         373.8            042.5         823.4           180.9           663.8          850.4         186.6
U01000 ric-/o--nV  40.7/0. 5                                        10/1.0         1.0/'1.0      0.1          0.1          19.3             09.2          44.0            15.0            30 .1          45.4          15.3
puf                                                0.28               0.28           0.28        1.0          1.0         5329.            434.0         434. 2                          477.0          477.0            -
Otter                                                                                            0.=           0.         100.0            150.0          150.0             _            130.0          15(.0
Tonal                                                                                   2.1           2.1        1075.1           02~55.7       0451.6           1951.9         1300.9        1528.8          201.9        1500
e3 Upld rlce/ouosncn |                     X             0.7/0.5            1.0/1.0         1.0/1.0      1.4          1.4         270.5            409.8          618.1          209.3           421.0          635.o          214.0
Coo                                                0.28               0.28           0 0.        0.7          0.5         293.2            000.8          800.0 .                        iloy3-         143.7-
Coffee                             -               0.28               0.28           0.28        0.6          0.6         319.2            260.4          260.4              -           286.2          286.2             -
Other 3/ ,                                                                                       n.e          n.e          150.0           150.0         450.0           300.0           150.0          45o.0         300.0
T0t0l                                                                                    2.5          2.5        1032.9           1042.0        1551.3           509.3          1100.9                        514.0 3ioo
4       Upland rOoe/eeoenVe 2/             X             0.7/0.5            1.0/1.0         l.O/lo.      1.      4    1270.7                       408.8          618.1           209.3           421.0         635.0          214.0
Coeoe R.hobilit.tiuX                               0.28               0.50           0.50        0.7          0.7          410.5           311.9          457.0           145.1          201.2          261.0           59.8
Other -/                                                                                         0.0          0.0         251.0            250.0          250.0                          050.0          050.0
Total                                                                                   2.1           2.1         931.0            970.7         1325.1          354,4           870.2         1146.0         273.8       1430
5       Uplad rloo/oeueave 2/              X             0.7/0.5            1.0/1.0         1.0/1.0      1.4          1.4          270.5           408.8          618.1           209.3           421.0         635.o          214.0
Coffee Rehabilittion                               0.28               o.48           0.48        1.r          1.6          851.2           694.4         1061.4           367.0          763.2         1179.8          416.6
Other -/                           -.s                                                                        n.           150.1)          150.0          150.0              -            150.0         150.0
Tot01                                                                                    0.0          5.0 o       271.7          ?1253.2         189.5           576.3          1334.2         1964.8          630.6      1000
6       Oplacd ri-e/cau.a.a 4/             X             0.7/0.5            1,0/1.0         1.0/1.0      1.1i          1.4         270.5)          408.8          618.1           209.3           421.0         635.0          214.0
Cocoa71lanti/8 5X                                                     0.56            0.70        -           1.0             -               -           487.5           487.0:             -          479.9          479.9
Other -                            _.o                                                                        0.0          300.0           300.0         270.0          - 50.0           300.0          230.0         - 50.0
Total                                                                                    1.4          2.4         510.5            708.8        1355.6           646.8           721.0         1364.8         643.9        800
7        0pl-0d rlce/ceseva 2/             X             0.7/0.5            l./1l.0         1.0/1.0      1.4           1.4         270.5           408.R          618.1          209.3            421.0         635.0          214.0
Coffee Planting 4/                 X                                  0.24            0.75        -           1.5             -               -           299.1          299.1               -         1884.0         1884.0
Oth-                                                                                                                       3(o.)en)  (na)  3 " "  ' 300.0  200.0    .    -100.0          300.0          150.0         -150.0
0001l                                                                                   1.4            0.9        570.5            708.8        1117.0           40t.4           701.0     2    669.o0    f f        3    OO3 2d
Tot01 car,eOr-                                                                                                                                                                                                           12580
4/  These frar  teccosee ore i- eed on the financial ret -rns rer htecare clc-lated in the crop fondgotr 0000 io Ann0x 9 Tble- I - 4.
2/   00 is ..eced that in the ebeende of the pr-Je-t present yielde W-1110 Se  .innt.!.ed in thC future.
t/ ther -ctiliti- in-lode:  -.b.ilte-ce crops of co-o., -aiee, veget"bles, pens ned                --truce pecceonhog of hild oil pem an- ocT-f-le  inc5e.
4J   The yield dotn  for uplgrd rdce/oaeeeve  iedlstet toe ttl pr-dotion f-o  1 ha of which 903% io devoted to rice end 106 to cneeeOe
2/   In the With project 01t10t000  inclodee Oaees-r  which Wecld be grg?n un l/t of the area thst had bean devoted to oplnd ei-e/-a....e in the prevous. ye-r.
4/  The .f... f-or ne planhiegs of -oOo  and coffee  -re tekee f1rol the current?.y fe01u anree.



SIERRA LEONE                                                                           Annex 7
EASTERN INTECRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PNOJECTr Iii
(overmnent Cash Flow
'000 Leores (current)
PYI           PINE          PY3           pY4            PY".         PY).         P7'            S         PY9          PY10          PY1           PlY21
'.'AIR I NI hOWS2
LDA C-reli t                            3(662 .0      1i824.)        2070.0        2839.0              0
BA)FA                                    1736.o        1839.0        1740.0         1720.0        1". .O
INlDP                                    -99.0          35'3.(        508.0          448.to (,71..
Exsporl 'l'ax 1neuex  jI  jj                0.3          19.'         130.1         420.2         10(< . 7     1979.6    308if.9   4i1o.'            41(,7.       0277.7        627.7         62'77.7
PO'PA., INFLOW"             t697.  3                   4035.         444o.1   b     4?7'.    '         "7      1979.)6      3033.9      4i.o.8       4672.5  62 77.    7        6277.7        6277.7
CAlII OUTFLOWS
Project Costs
Development
Project Marnagement                   (o127.2        398.3         425.8         389,4         4Wm.9
Extension and Trainign                7- 8.0         669.3        8Sb.5          721.6          in. 4
Engineering Services                  760 7         796.6          527,6         6oo0.'         472.9
Roads                               1j389.')        534.2          728.9         03'). 2        862.0
Monitoring & Evaluation               142.',         106.9         138.3          156.7         15. 0
I'FC                                  712,           312.4         384.0         463.9          296.o
DOPC                                  478.4          432.4         179.4         200.0          198.'7
EMSt]                                 613.h          591.6         82t.6         962.1          864,3
Prodnction Inputs                     248 6         483.'j         799.6        ]i84.5         1165.6
Consultancy                           119.'3          83.6          6o.4           51.0
Rec,urrent S /
Project Maiatement                                                                                            40.0         41o.o       40.0         4o.o         40.0          4o.o          4o.0
Extension Services                                                                                           320.o 0       '320.0      320.0       320.0        260.0         260.0         260.0
PEMSIJ and Mositoridad and                                                                                   262(.0       260.0       26t).(o    2S6o.o         200.0        200.0          200.(2
Evaluation
Roads                                                               6O. 0        13(.0          210.22       2022 .O2     170.'.      3(0.2)       323(2.()     36(2.1(      4oo.0          42(2o.2)
Debt Service IDA Credit L/
Interest                               13.7l          34.3          48.9          07.3           86.2         94.5         94.         94.,,        94.5         94,'          94.3          85.1
Capital                                                                                                                                                                       126.0         378.0
Debt Service BADEA r ta,,  9
Interest                               42.5         127.5         212.5          297.5         382.5        425.0         411.3       397'.o      380.5         363.0        341.5             -
Capital                                                                                                     270.0         290.0       330.0       350.0         390.0        430.0
TOTAL O[ITFLOWS                        2,907.4       4,570.8       5,197.5        6,260.1       3,975.3       1,639.5      1,691.0    1,741.3    1,775.0         1,72'7.3     1,892.0         1,363.1
2FT CASII FLOW (DEFICIT)                    (110.1)        (335.3)       (749.4)       (832.9)        (406.8)       320.1      1,395.9    2,369.3    2,897.3         4,570.2      4,383.7         4,914.6
1     Incremental revenues from taxation of increased production of cocoa and coffee
(3s% of price) and palm kennels (10% f.o.b. price).
2    Beyond year 10 tax revenues and recurrent costs are held at the same levels
since no projections on price trends are available.
3/4 of 1% service charge and the principal repayable over 50years with a 10-year grace period.
The repayment teams are 1% per annum for the first 10 years and 3% per annum for the next 30 years.
4/   3% per annum interest rate, principal repayable over 20 years with a 5 year grace period



%   *                                                                                            .      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *
SIEBRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOliT PROJECT III
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENBFITS                                                                     Annex 8
Table 1
'000 Leases (real 1980 terms)
FY1            PY2             PY3          PY4           PY5          PY6            Pf7           PY8            FY9         FYIO-25
Development Costs:
Project Management                                 537.5           325.0          325.0         283.0        319.0
Extension and Training                             657.2           559.0          629.8         526.8        555.8
Engineering Services (and Wells)                   481.7           432.9          333.4         430.4        328.9
Roads                                             1325.4           644.6          629.8         730.8        583.3
Monitoring and Evaluation                          124.4            91.0          109.0         115.7        109.0
PEMBU i/                                           110.6           102.5          134.5         147.1        128.5
Darm Oil Palm Company |                            396.0           326.2          133.1         143.9        134.3
Farmers Finance Company 3/                         595.1           249.7          284,7         311.2        188.2
Sub total:                                           4227.9          2730.9         2579.3         2688.9       2347.0
Local Costs                                       1336.6          1307.0         1258,6        1228.1       1185.9
Foreign Exchange Costs at 0.E.R.                  2891.3          1423.9         1320.7        1460.8       1161.1
Foreign Exchange Costs at S.E.R.                  3304.3          1627.3         1509.4        1669.5       1327.0
Sub total:                                           4640.9          2934.3         2768.0        2897.6       2512.9
5% Physical Contingency c/                         182.7            84.8           75.0          86.5         67.8
Total Development Costs                               4823.6         3019.1          2843.0       2984.1        2580.7
Recurrent Costs                                       0               0            60.0         130.0        210.0         870.0          875.0         920.0          950.0        900.0
Incremental Production Costs:
On Farm                                            324.6           688.2         1131.4         1695.4      2098.6        2104.5         2246.3        2267.0         2105.0        220.0
Daru Oil Palm CompanY                                 -               -               -            -             -         217.0          222.0         230.0          250.0         250.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS                              5089.5          3564.9          3755.8       4360.1        4271.7       2509.7         2636.8         2644.8        2503.4        2477.2
Incremental Benefits
Rice                                                55.4           192.2           410.4        776.8        1808.6       2096.3         2117.5         2122.2        2122.2        2183.9
Cassava                                             18.5           140.8           367,2        734.3        1394.8       2078.7         2078.7         2078.7        2078.7        2078.7
Coffee                                            - 42.2         _  84.4           63.3         548.4        1125.1       2805.2         4822.8         6802.9        7950.5        8682.7
Cocoa                                               40.0           141.8           343.7        778.3        1067.4       1528.7         1938.7         2202.2        2284.2        1499.9
Palm Oil                                           110.6           150.1          193.5         221.2        242.5         250.4          250.4          318.0         429.3         546.4
Palm Kernels                                         9.8            13.4           17.1          19.5         20.9          21.7           21.7           28.1          38.2          53.9
TOTAL INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                             192.1          553.9          1395.2       3078.5        5659.3        8781.0       11229.8        13552.1        14903.1      15045.5
ECONOMIC RATE OF PEAURN                                                                                                                                                                  34%
/   One fifth of total PEMSU coats are attributable to this project
/   Investment costs of Nucleus Estate and Improvements
/   Investment costs of Improvements
The Offictal Exchange Rate (OER) =  US$1    Le 1.05,  50% of total costs of internationally recruited personnel
are considered foreign exchange costs sine about 50, of tot8 costs will be domestic expenditures
5/  The Shadow Exchange Rate (SER) c  US$1       Le 1.20
/   5% Physical contingency on non-Personnel costs
:/   Operating Costs of the Extension to the nucleua estate



ANNEX N
Table 2
SIERRA URONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPFANT PROJECT III
tCoflootc Analstsi: lncr menoal Rate of Re turn - enectivi cv AnalysIs
------------------ I N C R E M E N T A L ------------------------                                            INCREMENTAL BENEFITS FROM:                                  Int-.l R.t.  f Retur                   Net rr,-t V.I-   f Nt
Recurrent         FPre             DOPC                                                                I Polo Oil                   of Net Incremeotel                    Increcenttl Stree   at L
Projeot De-elop-ent Costs                 Costs        Prod-ction        operating    TOTAL  Rice       Co .a.V.      Coffee       Coco-            sod        TOTAL          Ben-fit7,5tre-                      di6count rote of 15%
Co-ts            Costs      COSTS                                                   Polo Rernels   BENEFITS                                                      (Le Million)
BPV of Appraisal Estimtes- (Le  illiton)  1/                   11.3                          3.0             8.2              0.7        23.2    8.5         7.9          23.0        6.6             2.1         48.1                                                          24.9
NFT of Sit.hi.g VEalue (Le Millitn)  2/                       36.2                          27.9            33.1             25.6       48.1  -16.4        -16.9        - 1.9      -18.2            -22.8         23.2                  15                                      0.0
Porcentogs Change  (AE to SV)  3/                             219                           S25             302             3336        107  -293         -313          -108      -375            -1175          -52
Grcoped Sesitivity AnoysSt    4/                                K                            K               K                 K          Ki     K           K             K          R                K           K                    34                                      24.9
K                            K               F                 K               -25         -25          -25        -25              -25           -25                   26                                      12.8
450                          *50             +50              +50         +5R    R            K             K         E                 K           K                    23                                      13.2
t25                          i25             +25               +25        +25  -25          -25          -25        -25              -25           -25                   20                                       7.0
t22                           20             020               t20        320    yrs    log 3yr-    lag 3yr-   lag 3yrs            lg 3yry         tg -5r2               16                                       2.6
3 Ore
-52                   L3                                      0.8
4-TOE                                                                      K                    EN                                       0.8
1/   Not Prosent Varue (NPV) of eah vrtible at d0 lco.t rare of 15%
(tho oppcort-ity  -ont of c-pittl - OCC).    a    t
2/   Th. NPV Pvaue (at 15%) of ecch  -tri.blc tested sep-rately  (othet v                  hrial   Reld ...Lt)  t ohich the
NUV of thA  Oct benefit ntr00- 0f tho pr-ject di-countod at tho OCC is zero.
3/    hce            .9ntageohanje thot would be required it  the Oppraoial estitete (AE) of a varable for it to
croch its switching value (SV).
4/   TIhe vatiable-   a- llo1Ed to vory  itot,tenonty: K= hold const-nt  t appr-is1  -tiAt;
t  0 f increase to appraistl t6timte; - = 2 Aecross  iEn appraisal estimate.



59 -
ANNEX 9
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.     Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector and Subsector
Al.   IADP CUSO CARE/Njala University College:  Farmer Health Survey
A2    Rokel Consultants Co. Ltd.:  National Diamond Mining Company -
Prefeasibility Study for the Rehabilitation of Mined-out Areas
in Kono District
A3.   Dunstan S.C. Spencer:  The Economics of Rice Projection in
Sierra Leone 1: Upland Rice
A4.   Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry:  Crash Rice Programme.
1980 Season
A5.   Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry:  The Inland Valley.  Swamp
Rice, Maize and Power Tiller Research
B.     Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B1.   Republic of Sierra Leone, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry:
ElADP-3 and Central Support Services - Preparation Report
B2.   Royal Tropical Institute:  Coffee and Cocoa Development -
Volumes I and II
B3.   Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board:  Agricultural Production and.
Investment Programme - Volume I General Report; Volume II Coffee
and Cocoa; Volume III Groundnuts, Chillies and Ginger
B4.   Rice Research Station, Rokupr, Sierra Leone:  Annual Report 1977
C.     Selected Working Papers
WPl. Detailed Cost Tables
WP2.  Proposed Financing Arrangements
WP3.  Farmers Finance Company
WP4.  Daru Oil Palm Company
WP5.  Economic and Project Prices
WP6.  Roads Components



SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - III
Organizasion of Ministry of Agriuelture eld rorettry
MINISTER OF ARII;IULT0TRE
AND FO*ESTRY
NN  S
REStAFICHRINSTITUTFI      EIFRTYO                                                                      lO                                    .               .       .ES
P,05C1, a,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  R~~~~~~~~~~eACI,~~~~~.1   pe s i
if~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IPEETTO                                                                      EVALUATIONS*                          PL_A|NING
|__ = 7 | -1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATIVE HAD 
VISIONIANDACFVC A NTANT                                                                                       EVALUATION AMSLA CNO
X}ARCSOS 11BAL_g0_11  [   FOESTRV      |FASTER              NCORTHNRT      S   NPROJEASTS|-
Pl"-  AIA                                          VI
AN                                                                                                                                                   N              4JIAUAI
i s  sollandTroin 14                                                               _                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNAL AUDIT  FIELODCONTROL UNIT   I SNO     X      |
Get'oFm nt R f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROJECT - t PootdPreM d_-
Sl tIIesi tN   iNLTE IINA          FASTR               OTWR               NOTES                                                                                                     DATA PROCESSING OFFICERS       1
_}NiSTRAI;    r R l  rG}NEERING   i    L    z    (     <                                                                          t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SATI'STICANTS
ADM INISFTRAiNIONG      E..S.                                                                                                                                                                   ASSISTANTSIerSi#sl IMS
|     OFINACE             TA NN
[S.
L X    or ViSla9L E |ension iNor iNr
To l/ as1dt 1 t e1]                   ContgLt Falmrs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 
Farmers~~~~~~ GL                            [P7LA   N.                                                                              Eld,- AanS .mlb



SIEPlTIA LE-ONEY
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVE.LOPIENT PROJECT III
Chart 1: Implementation Schedule
1           2           3           4           5
Project Year                      r--------- t- ----------*--                - -------
Key Positions
Project Manager
Extension Trainer
Credit Specialist
Building & Construction
Offices, Houses, Market Centers                    ._l
Well Construction (300)                                2100         75         75          50                . 
Access Tracks                                      _           _.
Swamp Development (no. farmers)             100         200         500         600          600
Upland Development (no. farmers)         500         900         1200       1200        1300
Cocoa/Coffee Development                    800         1590        1590        1700        1800
(no. farmers)
Project Monitoring &                                         _         . .
Evaluation
___________                          ----------- __-__________






SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - m
(EIADP - M)                                                     A
| hlLOM:TERS C O   2C  3'.  4     D  t3    0   SO                                                                                                  mA,  r
|  MILESB      .       L      3       4t       0'                                                                                       st ng >s
IL,pu,ed
G  U  I N  E A                     e    ;<                  XG                                                                               N
CL- Ar  to -      %&M  a                                    Mrrge - 3-~ ~R T H            '.,
LIJNC, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~LIE 
.laGC            -'   - NIGE''R.M ',-'                                                t ,; .  -r
FRETOWN
-  (Orrl   1/V                             rv,/                 E                  NorlhErrf IADP
SIER     __RA_  MON  OANV NL EI Imr _                                                    lr~ -zr?aL          ocL                        D
r  COAST                    Ted ararrn,see majn,t                                                        [      |Komnbr/Forr Wko AD/P
IISERIA1   U  , -npr msscw erqr,,b ..'r rre,rnap
Sh.'g. aow~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'f Kea~g.A/
,-UB,i,,,,,.irr',,, T,-  I
M_  R      _TAN A_   _              B*_____'..|o -c,,eg9  IADP
MALI  -Nl                                                                                            MoaYb AvDPuT n ees5aa -       
GU NEA                                                                                                                        Northe-r lt;   ,['Pd,8  1'



