Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reort No. P-2929-SL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
SIERRA LEONE
FOR
AN EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
December 19, 1980
This documet bas a restricted distibution and may be _ed by reclpients only In the performance of
their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disciesed without Wold Dank authrlantion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit      -       Leone (Le)
US$1.00            =       Le 1.05
Le 1.00            =       US$0.95
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA   - Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
CARE    - Cooperative American Relief Everywhere
DOPC    - Daru Oil Palm Company
EEC     - European Economic Community
FFC     - Farmers Finance Company
IADP    - Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IDA     - International Development Association
IFAD    - International Fund for Agricultural Development
LBA     - Licensed Buying Agent
MAF     - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MOW     - Ministry of Works
PAC     - Project Advisory Committee
PAO     - Principal Agricultural Officer
PEMSU   - Planning, Evaluation, Monitoring and Services Unit
PESU    - Project Evaluation and Services Unit
RMWA    - Regional Mission in Western Africa (World Bank Office)
SLPMB   - Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
UNDP    - United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Sierra Leone
Beneficiaries:  In addition to Borrower, Farmers Finance Corporation (FFC)
and Daru Oil Palm Company (DOPC).
Amount:           SDR 9.2 million (US$12 million)
Terms:            Standard
Relending
Terms:            To FFC and DOPC as Government equity.
Project
Description:    The project seeks over a five-year period to consolidate
and expand the assistance to small farmers in the Eastern
region which was begun under the previous two Bank Group
integrated agricultural projects. By extending coverage to
farmers in the entire Eastern Region, it would further
increase food and export crop production and raise agricul-
tural incomes. It provides: agricultural inputs, credit,
extension services, feeder roads, and village wells in the
project area; and technical assistance to the Ministry of
Agriculture to support and plan future agricultural develop-
ment projects throughout the country. About 12,600 farm
families, all of whom earn per capita incomes below US$200 per
annum, would earn significantly higher incomes under the crop
improvement and credit programs. Taking into account the
improvement in agricultural services and the road and well
components, altogether some 50,000 (or 50 percent) of the
rural families in the province would benefit. Normal risks
associated with projects of this kind would be reduced by
the fact that this is the third phase in the area and would
build upon the organizational structure and techniques
developed in the previous phases. The main risk would be
that difficulties in strengthening the extension and credit
facilities would have an adverse effect on achievement of
production goals.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost 1/                                  ------------US$ million-----------
Local        Foreign           Total
Project Management                                   0.8           0.9              1.7
Extension and Training                               1.5           1.3              2.8
Civil Works
a.  Administration and Workshops                  0.8            1.0              1.8
b.  Wells                                         0.3           0.2               0.5
c.  Roads                                         0.8           2.5               3.3
Production Inputs                                    0.9           1.6              2.5
Daru Oil Palm Co.                                    0.4           0.6              1.0
Farmers Finance Co.                                  0.3           1.2              1.5
PEMSU and Projects Coordinator                      1.0            2.0              3.0
Monitoring and Evaluation Cell                       0.4           0.2              0.6
Consultancy Services - short term                    -            0.3               0.3
Total Base Cost                                 7.2          11.8             19.0
Physical Contingencies                          0.1           0.5              0.6
Price Contingencies                             1.9           3.5              5.4
Total Project Cost (net of taxes)               9.2          15.8             25.0
Financing Plan:                                     -----------US$ Million --------…
Local      Foreign            Total
IDA                   2.1           9.9             12.0
UNDP                     -           1.9              1.9
BADEA                 4.5           4.0               8.5
Government            2.6                             2.6
TOTAL            9.2          15.8             25.0
Estimated                      ---------------------US$ million--------------------
Disbursements                  Bank   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual                       0.1    3.0    2.0    2.4    2.0    2.0    0.5
Cumulative                   0.1    3.1    5.1    7.5    9.5   11.5   12.0
Rate of Return:   34 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2995-SL, November 26, 1980.
Map: IBRD No. 14872
1/   Excludes identifiable taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO SIERRA LEONE
FOR AN EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPI4ENT PROJECT III
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Sierra Leone for the equivalent of SDR 9.2 million
(US$12 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance an Eastern Integrated
Agricultural Development Project III. The Arab Bank for Economic Development
in Africa (BADEA) has agreed to help finance this project on a parallel basis
with IDA with a loan of US$8.5 million equivalent, repayable over 20 years at
an annual interest rate of 5 percent. The United Nations Development Pro-
gramme (UNDP) is expected to contribute a Technical Assistance grant of US$1.9
million.
PART I THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Sierra Leone - Current Economic Position
and Prospects" (No. 494a-SL dated November 28, 1974) was distributed to
the Executive Directors. Subsequently, two updating Economic Memoranda (No.
1106-SL dated June 25, 1976 and No. 2153-SL dated June 26, 1979) have also
been distributed to the Executive Directors. Recently, a Bank economic
mission visited Sierra Leone in May 1980. The principal findings of this
mission are incorporated into this report. Country data sheets are contained
in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The economy of Sierra Leone is dualistic in character, a relatively
small modern sector co-existing alongside a large traditional agricultural
sector. For its source of income and growth, Sierra Leone relies heavily
on agriculture and mining, although in recent years depletion of the country's
richest mineral deposits has led to a decline in their relative contribution
to the economy. Diamonds, the largest export earner, accounted for nearly 56
percent of exports in 1979.
4.        The agricultural sector, still largely outside the monetized
economy, provides livelihood for nearly 75 percent of the population. Its
contribution to GDP, however, is around 35 percent implying a low level of
agricultural productivity and food output per capita on the average. Rice is
the staple food and is grown by over 80 percent of the farmers, primarily for
subsistence, although the country still faces rice shortages.   Coffee,
cocoa and palm products are the major export crops and also the principal
sources of cash income for the agricultural population.



- 2 -
5.        Sierra Leone has a poorly developed social and economic infrastruc-
ture. Although the extent of the road transport network is generally adequate
for its present needs there is an urgent need for improved maintenance and the
development of feeder roads. The country has rich water resources, although
the hydro power potential is still relatively untapped. Only about 12 percent
of the population has access to a safe drinking water supply, mostly in the
urban areas. Health facilities are inadequate and infant and childhood
mortality rates are among the highest in Africa. Although the Government has
in recent years invested quite heavily in education, primary and secondary
school enrollment ratios are low (37 percent and 11 percent, respectively) and
the country's illiteracy rate remains high, around 85 percent.
6.        The dualistic economic structure is reflected in income disparities
between the modern and traditional sectors. With a population of about 3.3
million, average per capita GNP in 1979 was estimated at about US$250. The
average per capita rural income is around US$120 while it averages about
US$600 in the urban centers. About 23 percent of the population lives in
urban areas. The urban migration rate (4.9 percent) is relatively low com-
pared with neighboring countries; however, approximatley 30 percent of the
urban pcpulation has an income level below the urban poverty threshold esti-
mated at around US$105.
Economic Performance
(1) Production and Income
7.        During its first decade of independence between 1962 and 1972, the
domestic and external finances of Sierra Leone did not come under undue
pressure primarily because real domestic resources increased. Throughout this
period, a nearly 5 percent growth in GDP per annum provided substantial
foreign exchange earnings and also contributed to a satisfactory growth in
public revenues. Beginning in 1972, however, this situation changed. Diamond
output began to decline, mainly as a result of the depletion of alluvial
deposits; there was a sharp increase in oil prices in 1973 coupled with rising
import prices of manufactured goods; and in 1975 the country lost its second
largest source of export earnings when the only iron ore mine closed due to
rising production costs and a declining iron ore grade. As a consequence the
GDP declined by 4 percent in 1975/76 and remained virtually stagnant there-
after. During this period (1974 and 1979) the growth of GDP was less than one
percent (0.9 percent) per annum, on the average. With a population growth rate
of about 2.5 per year, this resulted in a sharp decline in already low per
capita real incomes.
(2) Fiscal Performance
8.        From 1973, the slowdown in economic growth and the erosion of the
export base were accompanied by a marked deterioration in fiscal performance
characterized by stagnating public revenues and expanding public expenditure
policies. In 1975 the revenue performance was additionally affected by
weakening of export prices, as a result of worldwide recession. Tax and



- 3 -
dividend receipts from the National Diamond Company fell by 50 percent. Also,
revenues from corporate income taxes reflected the sluggishness of private
sector activity. Meanwhile, total public expenditures rose by more than 30
percent. The public expenditure policies remained highly expansionary through-
out the period between 1973 and 1979. During this period while public revenues
increased an average of 12 percent a year, public expenditures grew about 21
percent per annum and the overall budget deficit widened from Le 22 million in
1973 (about 6 percent of GNP) to Le 114 million in 1979 (about 13 percent of
GNP). Fiscal and monetary expansion, financed largely by short-term external
borrowing, led to ever widening budgetary deficits, a further deterioration in
the balance of payments and a substantial increase in the country's external
debt burden. During the last two years, the increase in expenditures was
largely attributable to civil service salary adjustments, expansion in the
internal security forces and extra budgetary spending related to the OAU
Conference held recently in Freetown.
(3) Balance of Payments
9.        The impact of stagnant production on the balance of payments was
masked until 1974 by favorable export prices for Sierra Leone's major exports.
Consequently, the country's foreign exchange reserves remained at satisfactory
levels until the end of 1973. Difficulties began to emerge in 1974 and
1975 when import prices rose sharply as a result of the oil crisis and
international inflation, while export performance remained modest. In 1974
and afterwards, the balance of payments began to deteriorate and show in-
creasing overall deficits. As petroleum consumption is relatively high in
Sierra Leone (mining, transport, power), the balance of payments position
has been particularly affected by oil price increases. The cost of petro-
leum imports jumped from US$8 million in 1971 to about US$70 million in
1979, now claiming more than one third of the country's export earnings.
While world diamond prices have remained strong in recent years, since
the volume of Sierra Leone's diamond output declined, overall export earnings
showed only modest growth. Import demand, on the other hand, rose sharply
with rising import costs and expansionary fiscal and monetary policies. The
overall balance of payments deficit rose to US$43 million in 1979 from about
US$7 million in 1974. Sierra Leone's net foreign exchange reserves which
stood at around US$36 million at the end of 1974, have declined steadily and
remained tight since then. In March 1980 gross official reserves amounted to
US$41 million of which only US$9 milllon (i.e. equivalent to two weeks imports)
was freely disposable.
(4) Development of Objectives and Development Efforts
10.       The country's first National Development Plan (1974/75-1978/79)
was prepared with the assistance of the UNDP and the UN Department of
Technical Cooperation for Development. The development strategy and objec-
tives stated in the plan and many of its basic elements were well conceived
and articulated. Priority was to be given to the expansion of the productive
capacity of the economy and to a more equitable distribution of wealth and



- 4 -
incomes. Unfortunately the period of the Plan coincided with the rapid
erosion of the country's principal source of foreign exchange earnings and a
deterioration in the Government's fiscal performance. These factors undercut
the economic and financial resource assumptions underlying the Plan. The
Government's policies concentrated increasingly on short-term financial
problems and neglected the requirements of longer-term structural adjustment.
More recently, Government has begun to focus again on medium-term policies and
has formulated a three year public investment program (1976/79-1980/81) as an
interim measure and has initiated the preparation of a second National Develop-
ment Plan. The public investment program attempts to shift resources to
increased commodity production, particularly in agriculture. The second plan
is expected to address the questions of structural adjustment and give emphasis
to the productive sectors together with income distribution objectives.
11.       Over the past five years between 1974/75 and 1978/79 development
spending by the public sector amounted to Le 150 million (about 45 percent
less than the plan target, which was based on an annual GDP growth rate of 6
percent as compared with the actual growth rate of 0.9 percent). Out of
this total about 22 percent was spent on agriculture, 20 percent on road
transport, 17 percent on energy, 15 percent on social services and 25
percent on other economic and general services. Of these expenditures, 17
percent was financed by budgetary savings while the remaining 83 percent
came from external and internal borrowings.
Recent Measures for Economic Stabilization
12.       Faced with increasing difficulties with respect to balance of
payments, servicing of external debt and acceleration in the domestic
inflation rate, the Government of Sierra Leone entered into a one year
Standby arrangement with the IMF in November 1979 for SDR's 17 million in
the second and third credit tranches. The stabilization program supported
by the standby arrangement includes revenue raising measures, a limit on
public expenditures, restrictions on new external debt, tighter monetary
policy and adjustment in producer prices. The Government has made satisfac-
tory progress in implementing the program, especially as regards revenue
raising measures and restrictions on short-term external borrowing.
Following DMF review missions in January and again in April, Sierra Leone
has been able to purchase the full amount of the standby facility. It is
expected that Sierra Leone will seek further IMF assistance for a medium
term program (Extended Fund Facility).
13.       The 1979/80 budget was drawn up in the light of the Government's
decision to implement a financial program to be supported by the Fund.
Fiscal policies under the Standby Arrangement were geared towards reducing
the budgetary deficits and inflationary financing, through additional
revenue measures and restrictions on public spending. Sierra Leone has been
successful in implementing the revenue measures and curtailing the net
government borrowing from the banking system. However, there have been
slippages in the areas of government expenditures. Recurrent expenditures



-5 -
have so far risen faster than program targets while capital expenditures on
OAU-related projects are now estimated to exceed the initially envisaged
amount of Le 100 million and reach about Le 123 million. The faster-than-
programmed increase in recurrent expenditures has been due primarily to
unpredicted sharp increases in oil and other import prices, high levels of
rice imports, and weakness in implementing the newly centralized expenditure
control measures.
14.       Sierra Leone's external trade balance as well as current account
balance have improved modestly in 1979/80 as compared with the previous
year. Export earnings have increased by about 10 percent above the 1978/79
level as a result primarily of favorable export receipts from diamonds. The
total import bill on the other hand has been kept at a reasonable level
despite sharp increases in oil prices and higher-than-expected level of rice
imports. This was achieved through restrictive credit policies, intensifica-
tion of administrative controls on low priority imports, and through cen-
tralization of the procurement procedures for the public sector. However,
largely because of the heavy debt service obligations, the foreign exchange
situation has remained extremely tight throughout the fiscal year.
15.       The highly expansionary monetary and credit trends of earlier
years are now being contained under the stabilization program. As of March
1980, the rate of expansion of money supply was substantially lower than the
year before. During the first three quarters of the program period (June
1979-March 1980), net credit to Government rose by 18 percent compared with
an actual increase of 38 percent in the comparable period of the previous
year.
16.       The FY81 budget introduces new tax measures to yield an incremental
tax revenue of nearly Le 20 million, about 10 percent above the estimated
outturn of the last year. The growth of recurrent expenditures is restricted
to 15 percent which, with the current inflation rate, implies a virtually
unchanged level of government activities in real terms. In October 1980 a
20-30 percent general wage and salary increase (the first since 1978) was
granted by the Government. Although not provided in the budget this increase
was accompanied by offsetting revenue measures on import duties.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
17.       In the face of slow growth in public revenues and export receipts,
Sierra Leone has since the mid-1970's relied heavily on foreign borrowing
to finance its capital expenditures. Total external public debt outstanding
increased by about US$132 million between 1975 and 1979. As of June 30,
1979 Sierra Leone's external public debt outstanding, including arrears of
principal, amounted to US$329.7 million of which US$277.6 million was
disbursed. The total debt outstanding and disbursed consisted roughly of
47 percent in commercial credits, 28 percent bilateral loans and 25 percent
loans and credit from international institutions. As of June 30, 1979 the
Bank Group holds about 13 percent of Sierra Leone's external debt outstanding
and disbursed. Assistance from bilateral government sources came mostly
from the Federal Republic of Germany, the People's Republic of China and
the Netherlands.



- 6 -
18.       The maturity structure of Sierra Leone's external public debt
has deteriorated sharply since 1975 as a result of increased reliance on
supplier credits. The average maturity of all new commitments declined from
16 years (in the early 1970s) to around 5 years in 1978/79. The major
portion of the supplier credits obtained in 1978 and 1979 were contracted
in connection with projects related to the OAU Conference.   Based on the
external debt commitments made until December 1979, it was estimated that,
without debt relief, the external public debt service payments for 1980
would stand around US$72.0 million, equivalent to about 33 percent of ex-
pected export earnings and about 46 percent of expected government revenues.
Since this was unmanageable the Government in November 1979 approached the
creditor countries through the Paris Club and in February 1980 negotiated a
second debt relief agreement. The total debt relief granted by this agree-
ment amounts to an estimated US$10 million for 1980 and US$7.5 million for
1981. After taking the debt relief into account, actual debt service
payments due will decline from US$72.0 million to about US$62.0 million in
1980. This latter amount represents 28 percent of expected export earnings
and about 40 percent of expected government revenues in 1980; debt service
is expected to remain at about this level in FY81 and FY82. Thereafter it
should decline, assuming Sierra Leone does not contract significant amounts
of new short-term debt. Debt service on Bank Group loans and credits
amounts to about 2.8 percent of Sierra Leone's total debt service liability
in 1980.
Future Prospects
19.       The next two to three years are likely to be extremely difficult
ones for Sierra Leone: the earliest revival of the economic activity is not
expected before the mid-1980's even with new investments in mining and con-
tinued investments in agriculture. During this period, while export earnings
may at best increase modestly, the cost of imports will continue their upward
trend, creating pressures on the balance of payments as well as the budget.
The balance of payments situation and the budget will additionally be burdened
with heavy debt service obligations falling due on previously contracted
short-term debt. At the time the Paris Club agreed to debt rescheduling for
1980/81, it also committed itself to similar rescheduling for 1981/1982, on
the condition that Sierra Leone continue to have a program with the IMF.
Over the next two fiscal years, therefore, continued stabilization efforts
will be required. In the medium- and longer-term, it is foreseeable that
Sierra Leone will both restore and sustain its creditworthiness provided the
Government implements policies and investment programs aimed at the structural
transformation of the economy. The future outlook of the mining sector in
Sierra Leone is difficult to assess in view of the limited knowledge of the
extent of mineral deposits. There are good prospects for kimberlite under-
ground diamond mining; large iron ore reserves have been discovered, but these
are of low ore grade; mining of rutile has just resumed and there are plans to
expand bauxite production in concert with Alusuisse. The proposed Bumbuna
hydro power project could provide lower cost energy to support these activi-
ties. A further intensification of the present efforts in the agricultural
sector should strengthen the country's renewable resource base, increase
export earnings from cocoa, coffee and palm oil, and raise the standard of



- 7 -
living and incomes for the vast majority of the country's people.   The
implementation of programs designed to achieve structural transformation
will take time to implement and will require substantial flows of external
assistance on concessionary terms. Although the present balance of payments
situation and the country's debt profile would not justify lending on normal
IBRD terms, the country's low per capita income and its recent efforts to
improve economic performance would justify extending IDA assistance. At the
same time, to ensure an adequate flow of foreign exchange resources for the
country's development program during a period of budgetary stringency, it
would be appropriate to finance a portion of the local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
Bank Group Operations
20.       Bank Group lending operations in Sierra Leone to date have total-
led US$52.5 million. There have been four loans amounting to US$18.7
million and seven credits totalling US$33.8 million. Three loans and four
credits are fully disbursed. Bank Group lending has supported agriculture
(28.7 percent), education (20.5 percent), power (31.8 percent) and roads (19
percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of October 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. In
general, the execution of the ongoing agricultural and education projects has
been satisfactory and, in spite of fiscal constraints, Government has for
the most part provided counterpart funds promptly; the implementation of the
institutional aspects of the third power project has encountered some
problems mostly due to weak management.
Lending Strategy
21.       The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance to Sierra Leone
are to: (a) support improved economic management, including economic
development planning and project preparation; (b) stimulate agricultural
production with a view both to broadening the country's export base, e.g.,
cocoa, coffee and palm oil, and also to helping attain self-sufficiency in the
production of staple foods; (c) improve the country's essential infrastruc-
ture, particularly roads and power, the inadequacy of which presently
constitutes a constraint upon the country's economic growth; (d) raise the
income levels and standard of living of the poorest section of the popula-
tion; and (e) broaden access to education, particularly in the rural areas,
and improve its quality. At the same time, the Bank Group aims through its
projects to encourage the adoption of appropriate sector pricing and tariff
policies and to strengthen the management and operations of the relevant
government departments and corporations.
22.       Since the halt in 1975 of iron ore production and the gradual
decline in the production of diamonds, it has become increasingly important
to develop the agricultural and manufacturing potential of the economy.
Bank Group-financed agricultural development projects have provided improved
extension services, feeder roads and farm inputs to smallholders affected by



- 8 -
the projects. These activities were started in the Eastern area under the
first project, and expanded under the second project which also initiated
similar assistance in the Northern area. The proposed third agricultural
development project would extend coverage of the Eastern project, which has
been successfully completed, to the entire province and would place added
emphasis on production of coffee and cocoa in order to diversify the country's
export base. A fourth agricultural project to expand smallholder activities
in the Northern province has also been appraised. These ongoing and prospec-
tive operations will complement other integrated agricultural development
projects under way elsewhere in Sierra Leone with the assistance of the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the European
Economic Community (EEC). To ensure smooth assimilation of these projects
into the agriculture ministry and help rationalize agricultural policies and
credit, an agricultural services project is being prepared for possible Bank
Group support. A possible industrial development (IDF) project may be prepared
to assist in financing small and medium scale enterprise development in
agro-industries, manufacturing and services.
23.       In infrastructure, the Bank Group's first highway project assisted
in the construction of the country's main trunk road system, in implementing
a maintenance program, and in preparing studies for further improvement of
the road system. A second highway project for maintaining primary, secon-
dary and feeder roads will be presented to the Executive Directors shortly.
A third project in the power sector, approved in 1977, is helping finance
urgently needed extension of electric power generation and distribution
facilities in Freetown and several provincial centers, thereby restoring a
measure of reliability in the supply of power required for sustaining the
Sierra Leone economy. The project is also intended to help strengthen
the finances and management of the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation
(SLEC). At the same time, the project includes assistance for the prepara-
tion of the Bumbuna hydroelectric scheme which is aimed at reducing the
country's dependence on petroleum-based power.
24.       In the social sectors, two education projects approved by the
Bank Group have been directed towards improving and diversifying education
at the secondary level, including teacher training, modernizing curricula
to increase the relevance of education to employment, encouraging rural and
non-formal training and strengthening educational planning and management.
Preparation has begun on a third education project which inter alia is
expected to support the Government's efforts to increase access to primary
education in the rural areas.
25.       To achieve its medium and longer-term development objectives,
the Government needs to improve its economic planning and project prepara-
tion capability. The Bank Group has already provided technical advice to
the Government in the formulation of its current three-year public invest-
ment program (1978/9-1980/1). In response to a request from the Government,
the Bank Group is also financing a technical assistance project which, in
cooperation with UNDP/TCD, is designed to assist the Government in the
formulation of a second National Economic Development Plan and the prepara-
tion of well-conceived development projects in a number of priority sectors.



- 9 -
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, Sierra Leone has experienced
serious economic difficulties in the last few years, and, as a consequence,
the level of Bank Group lending has been low. Continued improvement in
the Government's management of the economy will be important in determining
the level of future Bank Group lending.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURALI SECTOR
27.       Agriculture, including forestry and fisheries, contributes about
35 percent of GDP and 40 percent of export earnings. Nearly 75 percent of
the population lives in rural areas and derives its livelihood from agricul-
ture and related activities. Rice is the staple food, supplying in terms of
calories about 90 percent of the rural population's consumption of cereals.
Seventy percent of the country's cultivated area is devoted to rice. Cof-
fee, cocoa and palm kernels are the main export crops, and the recent world
prices for cocoa and coffee have helped boost export earnings. Nevertheless,
rural incomes remain far below the national average which is only US$250 per
capita.
28.       The agricultural sector has a major role to play in improving the
present economic situation of the country. The resource base is good. The
soils and climatic conditions are suitable for a variety of high potential
agricultural production systems. The Northern half of the country has a
long dry season which supports a system of largely subsistence shifting crop
cultivation in which rice, groundnuts, and sorghum are the principal crops.
The Southern and Eastern parts have rainfall and climate suitable for the
cultivation of tree crops, especially cocoa, coffee, and oil palm. There is
some potential for growing coconut and rubber, although development of
these two crops has thus far been limited. The rural economies of the South
and East are more cash-oriented than those in the North, with produce being
sold for export or consumption in the nearby mining areas.
29.       Tree crop production is concentrated in the Eastern Region, with a
small amount also in the Southern Region. Annual production of coffee ranges
from 10,000 tons to 4,000 tons, from an estimated area of about 40,000 ha.
Cocoa production averages about 6,000 tons from an area of about 50,000 ha.
Most of the coffee and cocoa farms are over 20 years old and poorly maintained.
Use of fertilizer, pesticides, and insecticides is minimal and yields are
correspondingly low. Largely due to the absence of any concerted government
effort to stimulate rehabilitation or replanting, coffee exports have declined
and cocoa exports have stagnated. The Bank Group-financed Second Integrated
Agricultural Development Project (IADP II) included a small cocoa development
component for the Eastern Region. About 40,000 tons of palm oil are currently
produced for domestic consumption and over 16,000 tons of palm kernels for
export. Almost all this production is from wild palm groves, extracted by
traditional methods by the rural families. To meet domestic demand, about
US$3 million worth of animal and vegetable oils are imported annually.
Development of an oil palm estate, mill, and smallholder plots was financed
under the Bank Group First and Second IADPs.



- 10 -
Agricultural Institutions and Services
30.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) is responsible for
agricultural development activities. It is comprised of two divisions: the
Agriculture Division, headed by a Chief Agriculturalist, and the Forestry
Division, headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests. The Agriculture Divi-
sion is the largest and is responsible for extension, training, research,
mechanization and planning, monitoring and evaluation of projects. There
are five agricultural regions, in each of which  AE's activities are headed
by a Principal Agricultural Officer (PAO).
31.       Externally financed IADPs carry out parallel extension work along-
side MAF extension staff in the same administrative areas. This has created
problems: managers of foreign-financed projects enjoy greater autonomy than
PAOs and deploy extension workers who are better paid, better trained and have
better logistical support than their MAF counterparts. These discrepancies in
working conditions have led to growing conflicts between the two services.
The dual staff structure within IADPs is also a source of confusion and
conflict. The Government is concerned about this situation and seeks to
correct it by improving MAF's extension services through increased financial
and logistical support and by gradually integrating project staff with Ministry
personnel. The proposed project would experiment with integration of project
and non-project staff in the East under a restructured regional MAF. However,
the wider issues of reorganizing and strengthening MAF on a nationwide basis
would be addressed in the proposed agricultural services (fifth agricultural
development) project currently being prepared.
Government Policy
32.       The National Development Plan 1974/75-78/79 assigned high priority
to agriculture and emphasized its development as essential for achieving
long-term economic growth, balanced regional growth, and equitable income
distribution. The plan called for an overall growth of the agricultural
sector of 5.4 percent per year, self-sufficiency in rice, improved nutrition,
and increased production of major export crops. These goals were to be
achieved through improvements in agricultural services, and the implementa-
tion of a production-oriented price package. The main vehicle was to be the
planning and development of integrated agricultural development programs and
projects covering the country's main agricultural areas. Because of institu-
tional and financial constraints, the plan proved far too ambitious. But
there have been significant achievements in that, by mid-1980, it is antici-
pated that about 30 percent of the country, will have been covered by IADPs:
Eastern IADP and Northern IADP (financed by the Bank and IDA), Magbosi IADP
(financed by IFAD and appraised and administered by the Bank), and Koinadugu
IADP (financed by the EEC). Another three are scheduled to begin in 1981:
Kambia/Port Loko, Moyamba, and Bo/Pujehun. Together with the proposed
extension of the Eastern and Northern IADPs these projects would cover an
area about 80 percent of the country.



- 11 -
33.       The Government is now preparing a second development plan.  It is
expected that continuing emphasis will be placed on IADPs and the strengthen-
ing of central services. Expansion of the cultivated area, irrigation, and
soil conservation are recognized objectives, as is the raising of incomes of
the rural poor. The Ministry of Development and Economic Planning is receiv-
ing assistance from the UNDP in preparing the second plan. To supplement this
effort, the IDA US$ 2.5 million Technical Assistance Project approved in
December 1979 (Cr. 970-SL) provides assistance to ministries in priority
development fields. Initially under the technical assistance project and then
under the proposed project, MAF is expected to employ two long-term advisers--
a senior economic planner and a project planner--and to obtain financing for
special consultant services and studies. This assistance will strengthen
medium and long term planning of agricultural policies and programs and
contribute to the effort to reform the ministry and make more efficient use of
Government and external resources for agriculture.
Marketing and Pricing
34.       The major agricultural marketing institution is the Sierra Leone
Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB), under the Ministry of Trade and Industry.
SLPMB markets the country's main export crops and has also temporarily taken
over the functions of the dissolved Rice Corporation, including the import
of rice. Producer prices for export crops are fixed by SLPMB in consulta-
tion with the Government. Purchasing, grading, storage, and transportation
to central collection points are the responsibilities of Licensed Buying
Agents (LBAs) who are paid on the basis of the producer price, fixed over-
head, and profit margins. The Government levies export duties on the basis
of a fixed percentage of f.o.b. prices. These taxes are relatively high,
35-40 percent on coffee and 35 percent on cocoa; they had been lowered in
early 1979, but were subsequently increased again in order to raise budget
revenues. Agricultural pricing and taxation are being analyzed and discussed
with the Government by both the IMF and the Bank.
Rural Credit
35.       Little credit is provided to small farmers by either the official
lending institutions (National Development Bank and National Cooperative
Development Bank) or the commercial banks. For this reason, under each of
the IADPs, credit facilities have been established. The second Eastern IADP
formalized this arrangement with the establishment of a Farmer's Finance
Company (FFC) to take over the previous Eastern region project's revolving
rural credit fund. The FFC has experienced a number of problems which would be
addressed under the proposed project. In addition, in response to the Govern-
ment's request for assistance to establish a nationwide agricultural credit
system, a consultant will be engaged with funds from the IDA Technical Assist-
ance project to help prepare a project component that might be included in the
proposed agriculture technical services (fifth agricultural development)
project (para. 21). This national effort would reflect experience gained
under the IADPs and would provide for their eventual incorporation into the
broader scheme as appropriate.



- 12 -
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
36.       The proposed project would be the third Bank Group lending opera-
tion for the development of Sierra Leone's agricultural sector. The two
preceding projects, IADP I and II, have been reasonably successful, with
developme.t of most crops in excess of or near appraisal targets.   The one
significant exception was for upland rice in the East, which was given less
attention than other crops by project management. Other achievements of the
projects were: the building of a modern oil palm estate and mill and several
rice mills (Phase I); the construction of a network of roads; and the estab-
lishment of the Farmers Finance Company (FFC) and the Daru Oil Palm Company
(DOPC) to provide farm inputs and operate the oil palm estate and mill,
respectively (Phase II). However, the two projects were less successsful in
their institution building efforts and both the FFC and the DOPC remain
financially weak (para. 47 and 48).
37.       The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for the first IDA-
financed IADP (Report No. 2066) acknowledged that, despite the short three-
year development period and its pilot nature, the project was successfully
implemented. However, the PPAR noted that expatriates played a critical
role in project management and, upon their departure, weaknesses in project
authority became apparent. The PPAR concluded that the project failed to
succeed in its institution building efforts. This problem has received
considerable attention in subsequent projects and is the primary focus of the
agricultural services project currently being prepared (paras. 21 and 32).
38.       As an initial step in dealing with the institutional problems,
under the Phase II project, a Project Evaluation and Services Unit (PESU)
was established in the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1979, to streamline and
improve centralized planning and monitoring, the Government merged PESU and
MAF's Planning Unit into a single Planning, Evaluation, Monitoring and Ser-
vices Unit (PEMSU). As noted earlier, the proposed project would experiment
with integrating project and ministry organization and staff in the Eastern
region, and an agricultural services project being prepared would address
the problem on a broad scale. In the meantime, to help MAF with the
administrative burden caused by the projects, an internationally recruited
Projects Coordinator has been appointed, funded under the ongoing project, to
assist the Permanent Secretary in coordinating all projects activities. His
funding would continue under the proposed Phase III.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project would be the third integrated agricultural
development project in the Eastern Region financed by the Bank Group.
The need for a third phase was identified by the World Bank's Regional
Mission for Western Africa (RMWA) in 1977. The project was prepared by a
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) team assisted by consultants and
RMWA, and presented to the Bank for financing in November 1979. Key events



- 13 -
and special conditions are presented in Annex III. An appraisal mission
visited the country from January 25 to February 21, 1980. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Sierra Leone: Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development
Project III", No. 2995SL, dated November 26, 1980 is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations took place in Washington
from October 6 to 10, 1980. The Sierra Leone delegation was led by Mr. Joseph
Amara - Bangali, Financial Secretary.
The Project Area
40.       The project area, comprising the entire Eastern Region, covers about
20 percent of Sierra Leone's land area. Population of the Region is estimated
at 890,000 (or about 29 percent of Sierra Leone's total population). Eighty
percent of the population is rural and most of the farm families are small-
holders. About 230,000 ha of land are cultivated. Upland rice, coffee, cocoa
and swamp rice occupy about 90 percent of the cropped area: upland rice 42
percent, coffee 17 percent; cocoa 21 percent and swamp rice 10 percent.
Project Objectives
41.       The primary objective of the proposed project would be to increase
food and export crop production and farm incomes of smallholders by extending
the present project area from 10,500 km2 to 15,400km2 to cover the entire
Eastern Region and promote upland crop development among farmers not reached
under the earlier phases. Improved farming techniques would be encouraged
through strengthening and training the extension services in the use of more
effective extension methods and improving the input and credit services
provided by the Farmers Finance Company (FFC). An estimated 12,600 farm
families (about 12 percent of total) would benefit directly from the project's
crop development and credit programs.
Project Description
42.       The project would include the following components:
(a) Smallholder Crop Development
Provision of extension services, farm inputs and credit facilities
to improve production of upland and swamp rice and other food
crops, cocoa and coffee.
(b) Infrastructure
Constructing and equipping four farmers' service centers and
drying floors for coffee and cocoa; constructing 300 km of
penetration roads and chiefdom tracks; constructing 300 village
wells.
(c) Institutional Support
Strengthening the regional agricultural services in the Region by
integrating project and MAF management; expanding and improving



- 14 -
staff and farmer training; establishing an engineering unit;
establishing a monitoring and evaluation unit; upgrading FFC
services; reorganizing the managerial and financial systems of the
Daru Oil Palm Company (DOPC); providing technical assistance to
MAF's Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Services Unit (PEMSU),
providing continued support to the projects coord4nator in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF).
(d) Oil Palm Development
Expansion of the DOPC nucleus estate by 300 ha.
(e) Consultant Services
Provision of short-term consultant services to assist MAF in
staff training and in preparing a socio-economic survey, research
program, and detailed engineering for road construction.
Project Cost and Financing
43.       Total project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties, are
estimated at US$25.0 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$15.8
million, or about 63 percent of total project costs. The recurrent costs of
maintaining the activities started under the previous two projects have not
been included but would be an obligation of the Government to advance on a
quarterly basis (Section 3.04(a) of Draft Credit Agreement). These required
government expenditures have been set out in a working paper accompanying
the Staff Appraisal Report. The Government has confirmed its intention to
exempt the project from taxes and duties. Expatriate staff costs are esti-
mated at $75,000-85,000 per man-year, in accordance with prevailing market
conditions for individual contracts. Short-term consultant services, for a
total of 26 man-months, are estimated at a man-month cost of US$11,000.
The estimated total project cost includes: (a) 5 percent physical contingen-
cies; (b) price contingencies for local salaries at 5 percent (consistent with
present Government policy), for all other local costs, 13 percent in 1980-82,
12 percent in 1983, 11 percent in 1984 and 10 percent in 1985 and the follow-
ing years; (c) price contingencies for foreign personnel, 8 percent (consis-
tent with UNDP guidelines), for all non-personnel foreign costs, 10.5 percent
in 1980, 9 percent in 1981, 8 percent in 1982, 7 percent in 1983, 6.7 percent
in 1984 and 6.5 percent in 1985. Total price and physical contingencies
calculated on the foregoing basis are equivalent to 23.7 percent of total
costs and 31.5 percent of base costs. A summary breakdown of costs is given
at the beginning of this report.
44.       BADEA has agreed to finance this project on a parallel basis with
IDA by means of a loan of US$8.5 million equivalent, and the UNDP would
provide a technical assistance grant of US$1.9 million. The proposed IDA
credit of US$12 million, the BADEA loan of US$8.5 million, and the UNDP grant
of US$1.9 million would together finance 90 percent of the estimated project
costs, net of taxes and duties (100 percent of the foreign exchange cost



- 15 -
of US$15.8 million as well as US$6.6 million equivalent of local cost). IDA
would finance US$9.9 million, or about 65 percent of the total foreign exchange
costs of the project; it would finance the foreign exchange costs of the
credit specialist for the FFC, the extension trainer, the project engineer,
consultancy services, buildings, production inputs, operations and maintenance,
and road construction. In addition, the IDA Credit would cover US$2.1 million
of the domestic costs of the buildings, production inputs, operations and
maintenance, and road construction. The UNDP grant of US$1.9 million would
finance 19 man years of expatriate technical assistance for PEMSU. The BADEA
contribution of US$8.5 million would cover 80 percent of local personnel costs
and 90 percent of the costs of project vehicles and equipment. The funding
for the DOPC and FFC would be transmitted by the Government to the companies
in the form of equity holdings. The BADEA loan would be for 20 years at an
interest rate of 5 percent. The Government's contribution of US$2.6 million
or 10 percent of total project costs would cover mostly local personnel and
operational costs. A condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the BADEA loan had been
fulfilled (Section 7.01 of the Draft Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
45.       MAF would have overall responsibility for implementation of the
project. The post of project manager, per se, would no longer exist.
Instead, the head of 2MAF in the Eastern Provinces would be responsible for
both new activities financed under the project and existing ministry ser-
vices in the province. All agricultural staff would be responsible to this
individual who would have the grade of Principal Agricultural Officer or
Assistant Chief Agriculturalist and would be accountable to the Permanent
Secretary through the Chief Agriculturalist. A Project Advisory Committee
(PAC), which was established under the phase II project, would continue to
advise on management problems, financial statements, annual budgets and all
other matters that require the attention of the Ministry. PAC would be headed
by the Ministry's Permanent Secretary and its members would include: the
Chief Conservator of Forests, representatives of PEI4SU and the Projects
Coordinator. Construction of penetration roads and chiefdom tracks would be
carried out by CARE (Cooperative American Relief Everywhere), a non-profit
international voluntary organization, under the supervision of the project's
Engineering Services Unit (para. 51). The Unit would be headed by an inter-
nationally recruited engineer and would also be responsible for the overall
operations of the land planning and well construction units and the workshops.
46.       In view of the financial constraints facing the Government and CARE,
it would be desirable to provide prefinancing of the operational costs of the
road construction component. It is therefore proposed that an IDA disburse-
ment of US$300,000 equivalent be made into a revolving account for this
purpose. The establishment of the account would be a condition of disburse-
ment (Schedule 1,4(d) of the Draft Credit Agreement). IDA would replenish the
account upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that such expenditures were
eligible. The management of the accounts and the preparation of certified
expenditure claims would be the responsibility of PEMSU's financial controller
(Section 2.03 (b,c,d,e,f) of Draft Credit Agreement). The Bank has suggested
that BADEA establish a similar facility for at least one quarter of its annual
contribution to be replenished in advance of each quarter.



- 16 -
Farmers Finance Company
47.       Established under the phase II project, FFC has primary responsi-
bility for providing farmer credit in the form of agricultural inputs and
payments for hired labor for upland and swamp rice development, cocoa and
coffee rehabilitation and replanting. FFC's recovery rate has so far been
poor, and its interest rates have not covered its costs. The low repayment
rate is caused by a number of factors, including institutional weaknesses and
farmer attitudes, which the proposed project would address. An interna-
tionally recruited senior credit specialist would reorganize and restructure
FFC's credit administration and input supply system. The appointment of the
credit specialist would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
7.01(c) of the Draft Credit Agreement). FFC would provide both seasonal and
medium-term credit at interest rates of 20 percent and 15 percent respec-
tively. For medium-term loans farmers would also be required to make a 10
percent initial payment in cash or labor. Interest rates on seasonal and
medium-term credit are currently set in Sierra Leone at 10 percent and 8
percent respectively, with the exception of the IFAD-financed (Bank-adminis-
tered) Magbosi project for which the Government agreed to increase interest
rates to the same level which would be applied under the proposed project.
Assuming a medium term inflation rate of 15 percent, the proposed interest
rate, besides improving FFC's financial viability, should result in a posi-
tive real rate at least for seasonal credit. Assurances were obtained that
interest rates would be reviewed annually by the Government with IDA (Section
4.06(a) of Draft Credit Agreement).
48.       In a further attempt to improve FFC's financial viability, it would
be made a licensed buying agent for export crops (Section 3.06 of Draft Credit
Agreement). As a marketing agent, FFC would have a source of income outside
its credit activities. In addition, by purchasing produce from the producers,
FFC would improve its ability to collect payments on farmer loans. To give
FFC a sound financial base and sustain it over the period when its problems
are being corrected, the Government would made an equity contribution of Le
500,000 to FFC in three tranches phased over a two-year period (Section
3.06(b) of Draft Credit Agreement). All Government contributions to the FFC,
under the project, together with proceeds from the IDA Credit and BADEA loan,
totalling about US$5.8 million, would be in the form of equity holdings. As a
condition of effectiveness, the mutual obligations of the Government and FFC
would be set out in a Financing Agreement (Section 7.01 (b) of Draft Credit
Agreement).
Daru Oil Palm Company
49.       Established as an independent company under the Phase II project
in the East, DOPC operates a nucleus estate of 731 ha. and an oil palm
processing mill.  For its supply of fresh fruit bunches (ffb) the mill relies
also on outgrower production; however, mainly because of the restrictive
pricing policy of the Government, outgrower response has been less than
expected.  At the time of appraisal, the millgate price at which DOPC was
required by the Government to sell to selected traders was Le 500 per ton
compared to an imported wholesale price of Le 642 and a consumer retail price



- 17 -
of over Le 900. This price failed to cover production costs for DOPC and
forced the mill to pay outgrowers only Le 40 per ton for ffb compared to a
market price of Le 56. Consequently, the plant operated below full capacity,
with negative effects on its financial performance. The Government recently
announced an increase in the price of ffb and the wholesale price of palm oil
to acceptable levels (Le 55 per ton of ffb and Le 660 per ton of palm oil).
While these price increases may bring some short-term improvement in outgrower
deliveries of ffb to the mill, to achieve greater reliability of operations,
the present nucleus estate would be extended under the proposed project by 300
ha. Because the extension is essential for DOPC's financial viability, the
acquisition of suitable land for this purpose and the payment of appropriate
compensation, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of disbursement
against expenditures under this component (Schedule I,4(b) of Draft Credit
Agreement). Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that the Government
would review annually with IDA the prices of ffb and palm oil and that they
would be maintained at levels in line with prevailing domestic market prices
(Section 4.06 (b) of Draft Credit Agreement). To further improve DOPC's
viability, out of the Le 1.9 million loan the Government has recently granted
to DOPC, Le 1.0 million would be converted into equity and the accumulated
interest on the loan be waived. Repayment of the remaining amount of Le
900,000, would be over a period of at least 10 years at an annual interest rate
not greater than 11 percent, and would not start before the end of year two of
the project, when it is estimated that the company's current accumulated loss
of Le 683,000 would be eliminated (Section 3.08 of Draft Credit Agreement).
All new Government contributions to DOPC under the project, as well as the
proceeds from the IDA credit and BADEA loan, totalling $1.0 million, would be
in the form of Government equity holdings. These mutual obligations would be
spelled out in a Financing Agreement between the Government and DOPC which
would be executed as a condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01(b) of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Farmer Services and Training
50.       The 16 farm service centers throughout the Region would be the
focal point for agricultural extension, the supply of inputs, farmer groups
and maintenance of farm equipment. Existing extension services from the
previous projects and the regular MAF staff in the Region would be inte-
grated and reorganized on the basis of the Training and Visit (T & V) system.
A mobile audio-visual unit would be provided for farmer training. Field
extension workers would be equipped with motorcycles which they would purchase
from the Government on credit. The project would provide facilities for and
support field trials of the food crop research program carried out by the
USAID-financed Adaptive Crop Research and Extension (ACRE) project, which
became operative in early 1980. Research into coffee, cocoa and oil palm,
currently not carried out in the Region, would also be provided under the
Eastern Region project. Research is needed for disease control, fertilizer
requirements and planting materials. Ten man-months of consultancy services
would be provided to set up the tree crop research program.
51.     Senior professional staff would participate in management training
seminars designed to acquaint them fully with the project's objectives, likely
difficulties in implementing it, and previous experience gained under earlier
phases. Funds would also be provided for overseas training. The inter-
nationally recruited senior training officer would be responsible for coordi-
nating all training activities under the project; his appointment would be
a condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01 (c) of Draft Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
Penetration Roads
52.       A total of about 300 km of penetration roads and chiefdom tracks
would be constructed under the project. The road component would be executed
by the Ministry of Work (MOW) by means of a negotiated contract with Coopera-
tive American Relief Everywhere (CARE) (Section 3.01(f) of Draft Credit Agree-
ment). Execution of this contract, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition
of disbursement of the roads component (Schedule I, 4(d)). The project would
provide financing for the equipment and operating costs of a road construction
unit which would be responsible for execution of the program. In addition to
the construction of the roads, CARE, with financing from the Government, would
maintain each road for two years following completion, after which MOW would
assume responsibility for its maintenance. Because the all-weather capabi-
lity of the trunk roads, Manowa junction to Sefadu, and Daru to Joru, is a
prerequisite for the start of the road works under the project, as a condi-
tion of disbursement against expenditures under this component, the Government
would be required to put into effect a program to upgrade these roads (Sched-
ule I, 4(c) of the Draft Credit Agreement). MOW would also provide adequate
maintenance for all trunk roads and feeder roads in the project area (Section
4.04(b) of the Draft Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
53.       Annual budgets and estimates of quarterly cash requirements would
be prepared by the management of the project, of FFC, and DOPC in collabora-
tion with PEMSU's accounting section, and would be submitted to MAF and
FFC's and DOPC's Boards for approval. On the basis of the annual budgets, the
Government would (a) make appropriate allocations in MAF's budget and release
to MAE the necessary funds quarterly in advance, and (b) make timely alloca-
tions of the necessary foreign exchange for import of recurrent farm inputs
and other goods required under the proposed and previous projects (Section
3.04 of Draft Credit Agreement). The Government would cause MAF, FFC, and
DOPC to establish and maintain separate project related accounts. As under
the previous project, these accounts would be supervised and coordinated
by the internationally recruited financial controller in PEMSU. The accounts
would be audited annually for submission to IDA within four months (Sections
4.01 and 4.02 of Draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement
54.       All goods and services financed under the IDA credit would be
procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Contracts valued at US$50,000
or more for vehicles and equipment (including those for the road construc-
tion unit) with an aggregate value of about US$1.7 million, and for fer-
tilizer with an aggregate value of about US$0.7 million, would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB); purchases would be grouped
into packages of at least US$50,000 whenever possible. Domestically manufac-
tured goods would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the level of
applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Contracts involving expenditures
estimated at less than US$50,000 but more than US$10,000 for fuel and trans-
portation, with an aggregate value up to US$1.9 million would be procured
through local competitive bidding. Contracts for buildings, valued at US$1.0
million including contingencies, would not be attractive to foreign con-
tractors due to their small sizes and dispersed locations and would therefore



- 19 -
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Contracts of less than US$10,000, for small
items such as pesticides, insecticides, tools, and seedlings, with an aggre-
gate value of about US$2.8 million, would be procured through international
competitive shopping.
55.       The services of internationally recruited staff and consultants,
valued at US$1.2 million, would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines.
The road construction program with operational costs of about US$2.7 million
would be carried out under a negotiated contract between the Borrower and
CARE; this procedure has worked well under the ongoing project. Goods and
services financed by BADEA, with an aggregate of US$8.5 million would be
procured in accordance with its procedures. The UNDP contribution of US$1.9
million would be for technical services staff. IDA would serve as the execut-
ing agency and all consultants would be recruited in accordance with IDA
procedures. The Government contribution of US$2.6 million would be mainly for
the local costs of staff services, production inputs and operational expenses.
Disbursement
56.       The proceeds of the IDA credit of US$12.0 million would be dis-
bursed over five years as follows:
Amount
Category                          Terms                                 US$ Million
I. Production         (a) 100% of the foreign exchange costs               2.5
Inputs                  (Est. $1.8m)
90% if purchased locally
(b) 90% of the local distributional Costs
(Est $0.7m)
II. Civil Works         (a) 100% of Operational Costs of the road           2.3
construction program
(b) Buildings 100% of foreign exchange costs    0.8
85% of local costs
III. Staff               100% of the costs of Internationally Recruited  1.0
staff and consultants
IV. Operation and       100% of foreign exchange costs
Maintenance         90% of local costs of
(excluding         (a) Administration, Extension and PEMSU             1.7
salaries)         (b) DOPC                                            0.1
(c) FFC                                            0.4
V. Vehicles and       100% of costs of road construction unit              1.6
Equipment
VI. Revolving           Initial deposit into revolving account              0.3
Account            for Roads program
VII. PPF                 Refinancing of advance for project pre-             0.1
paration facility for purchasing production
inputs
VIII. Unallocated                                                             1.2



- 20 -
Disbursements against vehicles and equipment, civil works, production inputs,
operational costs, and salaries and allowances of internationally recruited
staff would be fully documented. Disbursements for the operational costs of
the road program would be made in accordance with the arrangements described
in para. 45.
Financial Implications for Government
57.       The project would generate additional Government revenue directly
through taxes on the export crops--coffee, cocoa and palm kernels--as well as
indirectly through taxation of the secondary economic activities that would be
induced by the project in the construction, processing, trading and other
service sectors. Assuming removal of the current fertilizer subsidy by year
six, the Government would start to receive a net cash inflow after debt
service and recurrent costs, and at full development in 1990, the Government
would net from the project a positive cash flow of Le 4.6 million annually.
Under the previous project the Government agreed to a) reduce the fertilizer
subsidy by 30 percent and b) furnish by March 31, 1976, proposals for removal
or reduction of subsidies on agricultural inputs.  The fertilizer subsidy was
reduced from about 70 to 30 percent.  However, the Government has never
submitted proposals for removal or reduction. Although the current fertilizer
subsidy is not high by West African standards, since it is a sizeable and
growing burden on the government budget, agreement was reached at negotiations
on a new timetable for its removal (Sections 4.05 and 6.01 of the Draft Credit
Agreement).
58.       In order to avoid delays in implementation of the tree crop planting
program for the first year, IDA approved an advance of US$100,000 under the
Project Preparation Facility to finance purchases of seeds for cocoa, coffee,
and palm oil and related planting materials. This will permit nursery work to
start before expected Credit effectiveness. About 90 percent of the expendi-
tures were for foreign costs; and the entire amount would be refinanced under
the proposed project.
Benefits and Risks
59.       An estimated 12,600 farm families (12 percent of total rural
families in the Eastern Region) would earn significantly higher incomes as a
result of the various crop improvement and credit programs. All of these
farmers earn per capita incomes below US$200 per annum, and about 20 percent
are below the relative rural poverty income threshold for Sierra Leone esti-
mated at about US$80. The improvement of the road network and construction of
village wells would reach beyond the direct beneficiaries to a considerably
larger proportion of the rural population. Overall, at least 50 percent of
the rural families would benefit in some way under the project. As Sierra
Leone is a net importer of food, the incremental foodcrop production would
represent potential annual foreign exchange savings of at least US$6 million
at border prices. Incremental foreign exchange earnings per annum from the
export crops would be about US$8 million by 1990 (constant 1980 terms).



- 21 -
60.       The training programs and institution building to be introduced
under the project would improve local capability and facilitate planning
and implementation of future development programs. By 1990, annual on farm
employment would increase by 750,000 man-days (12 percent paid labor and 88
percent family labor). Additional employment would also be created by the
increase in the level of economic activity that would be induced by the
project in other sectors such as trading, rice processing, construction,
transportation, etc. Farm trials and research would assist in the introduc-
tion of more advanced technologies during later phases of development in the
Region and elsewhere in Sierra Leone. The estimated economic rate of return
of the project is about 34 percent.
61.       Since the proposed project would be the third phase in the area
and would build upon the organizational structures and techniques developed
in the previous phases, normal risks associated with projects of this kind
would be reduced. The main risk would be that difficulties in strengthening
the extension and credit facilities would have an adverse effect on achieve-
ment of production goals. In addition, since the administrative and manage-
ment reforms are experimental, they would be watched carefully with a view
toward further modification, as necessary, in connection with preparation of a
proposed agricultural services project (para. 30). Sensitivity analysis
indicates that the project would remain viable under adverse conditions for
any of its components. Total benefits would have to decrease by about
50 percent (through a shortfall on yields, prices, area or any combination
thereof) before the project would be economically unviable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Sierra Leone and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
63.       In addition to the features of the Credit Agreement which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, conditions
of credit effectiveness would be (a) the fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the proposed BADEA loan of US$8.5 million,
(Section 7.01(a) of Draft Credit Agreement); the recruitment of the Senior
Training Officer and Farm Credit Specialist (Section 7.01 (c) of Draft Credit
Agreement); and that Financing Agreements between the Borrower and FFC and the
Borrower and DOPC have been executed (Section 7.01 (b) of Draft Credit Agree-
ment). Conditions of disbursement wculd be: (a) that a program had been put
into effect to upgrade the trunk roads (Schedule I, 4(c) of Draft Credit
Agreement); that a contract had been executed between the Borrower and CARE
for road construction (Schedule I, 4(d) of Draft Credit Agreement); (c)
acquisition of land for the oil palm estate (Schedule I, 4(b) of Draft Credit
Agreement); and (d) that a Special Account had been opened for the road
component (Schedule I, 4(d) of Draft Credit Agreement).



- 22 -
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 19, 1980



- 23 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TAHLE 3A
SIELRA LEONE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SIERRA LEONE                 REFERENCE GkOUPS (WEIGHTED AVRACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             71.7
AGRICULTURAL      63.0                               MOST RECENT          LOW INCOHE             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SANARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USM)                   ..       140.0     250                  228.9                  726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     31.0       127.0      98.0                 80.0                 699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     2.2         2.7       3.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.0       18.1      23.1                 17.3                  28.9
POPULATION PROJECT IONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      6.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (H7LLIONS)                       14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      31.0        38.0      46.0                 27.4                  61.7
PER SQ. Kg. AGRICULTURAL LAND    35.0        43.0      52.0                 82.6                  126.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        41.8        42.0      43.7                 44.9                  45.5
15-64 YRS.                        55.0        55.0      53.0                52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2         3.0       3.3                  2.8                   2.8
POPULATION GROWJTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.8         2.2       2.5                  2.7                   2.7
URBAN                             3.9         5.5       5.7                  6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0        46.0      46.0                 47.4                  46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0        22.0      19.0                 19.6                   16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         2.9       2.9                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         98.0        9.0       98.0                 91.8                  94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  85.0        %.0       93.0                 90.2                  92.7
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DAY)         43.0        47.0      48.0                 53.0                  53.0
OF WHICH ANINAL AND PULSE      13.0        14.0      17.0                 18.4                   15.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0        32.0      27.0                 27.7                  21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0        42.0      46.0                 45.3                  50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..
ACCESS TO SAFL WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        12.0        ..                 23.2                  31.0
URRAN                              ..        75.0        ..                 58.0                  66.8
RURAL                                         1.0        ..                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                 28.9
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                 67.0
RURAL                              ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        19956.0    18067.0         ..              30910.4               14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    5904.0/c   3802.0         ..               5793.2                3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1312.0      1095.0        ..               1198.9                 1141.5
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         6.5
UR8AN                              ..         5.7
RURAL                              ..         6.7
AVERAGE NUMIBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAhN.                                       2.1        .                    .                     .
RUIRAL                             ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                             2.0/         ..



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TCLE 3A                                                  Page 2 of 5 pages
SIERRA LEONE - SOC7   INDICATORS DATA SHEES
SIERRA LEONE                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MUST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960   b    1970 Lb ESTI7E /   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFIICA SOOTH OF SAHRA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHENT RATIOS
PR UMRY:     TOTAL                 23.0        34.0       37.0                  57.7                     61.7
NALE                 30.0         41.0      45.0                  74.2                     69.2
FEMALE                15.0        27.0      29.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         9.0       11.0                  10.0                     20.6
KLE                    3.0        13.0      15.0                  13.7                     29.2
FEMALE                2.0          5.0       7.0                   7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S 0F SECONDARY)   9.0          3.0        2.0                   6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRDNARY                            36.0        32.0       32.0                 45.0                      36.6
SECONDARY                          17.0        21.0       19.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         7.0        15.0       15.0                  25.5
CONS 'JUHT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         9.0        6.0                   3.6                    38.E
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.0        15.0       21.0                 31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          C.2/.L      1.1        2.8                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULAUTON PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   6.0        17.0       10.0                   4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1          0.1         ..                    ..                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       910.5      1055.6    1222.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.7        35.0       35.0                 33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              77.7        71.5       67.0                  80.7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.7        14.8       18.0                  8.1                      17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.1        39.9       38.7                  42.2                     38.8
MALE                                 54.6        52.3       51.1                  55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                               29.8        27.7       26.5                 29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.2       1.3                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME 0ISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED RY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS      ..        33.8f        *
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         64.1/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         4.5         .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        1 0.                               .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
LARBEA                               ..          ..         ..                138.2
RURAL                                ..          ..       54.0                 86.1
ESTI2ATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                ..           ..      78.0                107.0
RURAL                                ..          ..       67.0                 65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BEIOW ABSOLDTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..       35.0                 66.9
Not available
R ot applicable.
NOFIS
L    The group averages for each Indicator ara popuattion-eishbted aritImetiC  mane.  Coverage of cauntries
aong the indicators deends On avsilability of data and is not uniform.
Ib   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
end 1971; and for Most Recent Eatimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/C   1962;  /d 1967;  /C 1963;  /f Population.
April, 1980



Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONSfflt SOCIal TNDTCOTORS
Note-   Although the 4e-  are dreec fer  sore   eeoi  ugdtetnacotabo   o   eibe   rsol   lcb   oc   htte   a   o   etts
the los, useful hr decor oh  ordere nimntto   hdo    treors. ardtharecterti-ersiu  o  o  doff-eero-  beto.t..                       rttt
rotue0   ouctyI nuyrfu   hytachuols   litepres.                 ru   hr    tdh   rretrcur                  o    fdaia          ctode Ahccs  of1 etone
urcuu-clhuralaflruch.h.   Treerefecete   e-P di," trceeenc    r..ahreoueattoAetuc  ecco  fueco   irdrorrade...                                rlttetc-
leas  huf c  th  urusthc  h  a  enorAtedat  fo  ch.t hodto-t- .                                                 "udL-rorn    fcoroe    a    snOuost-e nepru  or1 11toeca llhihley o
of ro  hdi-chrr e ihe    atr tcI  -ot-r and refert.e.              oa
LAND1 nIfLA (thouaaodeq   .Toueuc   e  t'ctr-tpoto                                                                                        oeaoO  sae    tpacohgpt
Total - Tota  colr  ae -opete-n  las   naan   ocdraesdocno    .  .rc -oamdu-.   roia  utese    e
car E   bret-a Pten-tra    ocht.n   ccc  1- Prltst   r
aNd lPgEtR    peerITA eeS , GN eral  ssco  hydra-..t   etne         - o   gen ihe...l.ele-     ceeaeneuoitrA.trh   opel,  enoe                            P,-,ad  bas  ad -edoa
'I.                                                                                                                     .,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roetn    eractroaffdh      fsahc   hsbyT  f hgdea t.1  etant
etottd yft    Thag io-o coatholcaen    eentas W*61.197,Jand ;196hnre   osif,eo)ebr  ofrt-aintcndea    o  pcnPide
Phifdhf IO  P,ITA]-,STATISTIfCS                                       #  T   (..                ,tale holod  oh.P prhgcopol ge.tcli. and spcaice    oaoca.sd  ha
tItbnPrlsn    erese  totl)-eto f teb- cI en- tnseh popolattteet;
ceneconehe;  96.190  ced1t  I                       l.;110  17,- 19T  dn.                  iT ...   te.f...hof  esss  petthoaehoidb  btotl  ars,a   ee
tod   ef   nettya   ic   eeAsioa v.It casty  cprnpisicm                                   hen-01 per.e, pet ro-h hoal-       obai   an  cce  oep tedIeertio -
herel, ard  aeahe hita  apeheasep  sabihtetne  a 176.5 y9st. Th   as       dnlcs,ree 1hor» feoeltosenhdc-i.        ...p.taao  Cettat                    n
voes  o  ferttlity   onea       - here   oft hereIn tesutogt rodr1    O               unproruhPled gath...b                         I 
a etTuief; 19eo0o hoc prejenhie  t ynoe.e   ro,ubc   n  ttldelig   epnhey
tantcratn.Ii   This. iscoee Itf afte  feehilsy  rat,  ecin   e                     ofutI ttohdethoir
tasoetd n  th  baos  f he  rojces  ahnanetitie o  nb  poohalnt                  pc.aty.. ahfed l-bg  p         ITahs   anal t ooled  '.. clldo  age .b-li.
eatlefvelt--:I.                                                                          crotts   it   et...l  doci    nthldt                  da earsad  litpene
total area.                                  ---ooaofA--ihy ofII                                   chfpaao  aa;teaaeaneostset   ecao
only                                                                                     totetireal encdhhf-rPT(cemen  ef ae ordan i.- qncatiea   PssaT-ntee
lther  1i,9Th, . a id 9thdat.d -etfnrfui-,.t d.   o.t                                          dEtaatb. rt P-trioa.            n   eodr       otlcac            noldi
to foattr  flochbtfecat  - notei -t -lyt        ohersrrea   etta   i-                       pruny nIscoao  hrh  dirida   ht CT--er of.1 eaeo  to she
hatoons    tor  th95 b.. 19 f ti. end  970-t.                                                asaperteetapelof totalladul m tt.pepI. ctyIo -gt  15yersen  rome.
pultiJ.;  Yitbi.I i971. and  1976 de1 thcaofoen                                                                                                      d-,-Pnfp
icue  eat  tteI gt haoanf    caanl dats  at hrsoe  o  od-oer     esaererhat  fetthon Im d ..e.ltcien ..Psa1 onte3 tars eete  ma..te
pooaio;-       61   ol  an.I di  9i I..h.dea                                                hats mea-ttiaypgpl.io   leesl tha  et1ght b- ethran ff ,clade   ba boca1 heres  o
PTiiyeteasalyfv-oearam enigi19.19,an19.                                                     hrdosat atiera  pabli  pe   hocn  of popeala tion-olda   mi
Faa>  P ennnc-dterore   Oneal   heacodm   .  nenl tenhe  ofacoasot            reetdetcieteit oonciesand tttatschcecofsottiosof adi  ac
oht.t.iTh-onr   dete   notaeiter-etec   alypanngpntt                                      rnc   ffc,ut  fo ..eo   eas  ayno  he chspe-abhs scen  anan l
fenhic  lannioc- leer  feeceu  of Cach-d  steel-.  Ptoenaea    JMace                   oooneruesaholoeoso       ..T hiecog.        .Pd-.           ....         -
ane   ftu-haigae115o   enleo-s lt-acrldrost                                            T'Pcteed        ettosn   reltef-fi  eeon   etbodasC
el  mrrn  rok      ncs   m    tOt                                                         tea   ohepr  hoedppltoh   nhdcaloo T. i 1  -titneti..n
toinuleeal      erAca           adte   aerpiaogoa(..agrae                                t  be  dati-t..te tol a--t-peas e  lease- fort itmag-en..
Pet reruto turlo of calorhe   ftereeet of'equdreyer-cIT tofpottd                                                                     Ilr
roctgrtruouloutof ret  ood noploen atuhebltih trotrtMpet repita                                                                 U.T? yph.
foaoutuu`d,in`t fond70 pro deach7g, an                                               Adochooohiic    eqie   eittc    rttto   onre   t   r   eea lf16.17   n
Pboanetnhd here0; 1961 -hf9 7yfig and.19i. don.                      hfto       rrrntmeo  to ls labor                                  to fnnoe  191,  97nt cd 97  dte.
,Ti_o-aron or  totcso   ctlpoet  e   s   ndh   eo  nf noldl end                         rtetutrlionbhat  hpetcsRt9  - need.-  sl. cd  Scah -l-., PhrtlIpami   a
polte etotic, nf ohm   hI er. hudb   nmlpoeo.T  c   ro-                            acve   atiaenmoa   ettl    al,tdftl   ao   ooa
atiaahprocel  as eo cotg   for he                                                   iitT  -hoch, pct...dby Pilu thtmcc
to~~~~~~~~ acarsocaeo  hepflin.sdln PtPLste                                             . treed,  a   n jci-
Peb_ha  ttu   oOh   cncocladgun       tteesoh of f-Ptat                                   so net  ce ft         1 pcom l source ..
tiondloo atioaa  o  phesi aLa::               dyt1t-f.19h  r  17  ot.                  cioh      Ieodnf  aitI atoo  ppoftn  de.5co                       d5i. ee
ihl   (afe thil-hf J oseatott   fe   bocd    -,asea  d-saptthocdi                           r h1 oa  lhcfre
cee gonu  h-h  er,to       hltot  bcaeeac     rmt -bdavloI..etoalcn-i,
ttesdtsdciedSto   if  tbes   9h,  90  n  f7.d.a.yii  IT1TP.bIIITIO
lIfeEnut-        ra  hrh(eeeofAaeemahre  pants of_ite PIT                    aNning                - tecs.roet20ptat   e2ShT otet   a   atath   ece
at birth; hIbi. 1911 aed 19Th date,                   ..  f.d .d                            Y of. r.iot boneehoida.jI~P..
tonfan     d r Y..aln  bhote fet -hadI -t. bosa   etso   eat   edc  r   er             tnnTspr   oip
of ag  per  boasad hie birna.                                             tttoasd Abohatetooscr lotse Irel f-Ifne  oadtat.-otbancod itel 
occcs   lfa   aer9nernto  nrlaief-toa.  ran   edtoc                  As -aepoecyiA eelee  isca  imamtbeve  helen cAc oafei
P'b. f  coh   ( Cta, nbr   t   eefet   eonheoeaoae                                ntiiolpdqeede   b    seno   e-edtqta ci   o
cacer suply fionhdentraerntfc  cnreo  neenace   hoe d aeccosasnenred                  cfftCncdabdle.i
naeP    uho   IeIo    tcctdhcbhs   ohe,adsoiaocls   s                                     tontfbltiePrtrbrnlrh(i   ontnef-ohcedfae 
ounofcI?f-doar
rua  -turn  of o pepePTel.            .ror,co  rual  ettue    Yreroe
dupta   s  eonsgn  rchnesrotr   ophtrr     hunt   o-                                                                 cnoint    ola   at    iter
coal  ac  nuud  eh  olietcr  nd   osral.  uc  orothot ceenn.e,hovomc  enlyts  ndTrrbeotoeacepeseeo
hetua>  oceoat   anenae  o   asrhco   seoe   r  t  ueo                                                                              prlP10
It ruoer  leu,     tos..a.l....u...o



- 26 -
Page 4 of 5 pages
SIERRA LEONE
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 r79                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, 1972/73 constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                       1968/69-70/71    1970/71-77/78   - 1978/79 1/
ONP at Market Prices            871.4        100.0                         7.4                 0.9             1.6
Gross Domestic Investment       135.2         15.5                         1.1                -1.2            11.1
Gross National Saving            22.6          2.5                          -                 -6.8           -45.0
Current Account Balance        -116.6         13.0
Exports of Goods, NFS           209.7         24.1                        -2.0                -2.0            -3.1
Imports of Goods, NFS          -313.8         36.0                         1.5               -0.6             14.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTVmT!Y IN 1978/79
Value Added                    Labor Force -/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                   ln.        %                     VS$U          f
Agriculture                    285.5         35.9                .820      67.0                   348.2         53.5
Industry                       174.1         21.9                .195      16.0                   892.8        137.2
Services                       336.0         42.2                .184      15.0                  1826.1        280.7
Unallocated                     -                                .024       2.0
Total/Average          7          1000                                7                  650.5        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Oeneral Government                                Central Government
1i   Mln.)     ~% of GDP                       (ILe  Kin.)             of f'c7
9T-- - 197  l         3         6         79     9S78/79  79 1974-1975/76
Current Receipts                                                                        172.8        20.7        17.5
Current Expenditure                                                                     166.0        19.9        16.2
Current Surplus                       -             -             --67                               u.            .
Capital Expenditures                                                                     41.6        5.0          5.4
External Assistance (net)                                                                36.2        4.2          4.7
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1974          1975         1976         1977         1978         1979
THillion Le outstanding end periocd)
Money and Quasi Money                       84.6          91.6        111.9        136.2        179.3        214.5
Bank credit to Public Sector 3/             23.0          56.7        107.3        119.7        182.4        252.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector               39.7          41.1         43.7         46.8         64.9         71.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP (m.p.) 17.7             16.0         18.2         18.3         22.0         23.0
General Price Index (1961 - 100) 4/
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         14.4          19.9         17.2          8.3         10.9         21.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                52.3         146.5         89.2         11.6         52.4         38.4
Bank credit to Private Sector               40.8           3.5          6.3          7.1         38.6          9.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Preliminary
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated§' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ Credit from the Banking System.
4/ Consumer Price Index (Freetown).
not available
not applicable



- 27 -
Page 5 of 5 pages
SIERRA LEONE
TRADE PAMAmNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1S $ Nilllion)
1973-75       1977-79
1974     1976      1979                                 Average   x
(Millions US $) 
153.5    120.0    230.0         Minerals                  99.1   74.1   105.8       58.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           217.2   -162.5   -304.2            Diamonds               80.4   60.1    97.7       53.9
Imports of Goods, NFS          -.                                  Iron Ore               14.3   10.7       -        -
Resource GaP (deficit  -         63.7   - 42.5   - 74.2            Bauxite                 4.4    3.3       8.1      4.5
-63.7 - . - *   Agr'l. Commod.  24.8   18.5    64.1  35.4
Interest Payments (net)                                            Coffee                  7.8    5.8    32.5       17.9
Workers' Remittances                                               Cocoa                    8.2    6.1    22.8      12.6
Other Factor Payments (net)  - 18.8   - 25.2   - 40.9              Palm kernels & Prod.   8.8    6.6        8.8      4.9
Net Transfers                    21.9      10.7      28.6       All other Commoditles    9.9    7.4    104          6.7
Balance on Current Account   - 60.6   -57.0   -1W5                           Total       133.8  100.0   181.1    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        10.3       8.5       7.6            EXTERNAL DEBT June 30. 1979
Net MLT Borrowing                26.8      16.4      37.0
Disbursements                 38.5      32.3     86.1                                                         US $ Mln
Amortization                 -11.7    -15.9    -49.0
Subtotal                      3/.1      24.9     44.6               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              277.6=
Capital Grants                    3.5       5.6       6.7              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 -
Other Capital (net)              10.4       4.3       7.6              Total outstanding & Disbursed              277.6
Other items n.e.i               1.J8    -.2.1    --1 5                                            I/
Increase in Reserves (+)        - 7.8    -24.3    _43.1              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1979-
Gross Reserves (end year)        49.2      21.8      46.7
Net Reserves   (end year)        36.5    - 4.9    -26.2                 Public Debt  incl. guaranteed              22*5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fhel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed              22.5
Tnports
of which:  Petroleum         25.3      11.2     67.0 V
Exports
of which:  Petroleum           -         -        -        1BRD/IDA LENDING.  June 30, 1980 (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                          IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                13.0        27.3
Throuh       1971               a1979                             Undisbursed                             0.8         6.3
US $ 1.00  .8297 Le             US $ l.OO - 1.050 Le             Outstanding incl. Undisbursed
Le    1.00   US $1.2053            Le 1-00 = US $ .9518                                                   13.8       33.6
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.  Excludes debt servicing of Arrears
-    ($8.4 million in principal and $2.8 million in interest).
2/ Preliminary.
not available
not applicable
August-22, 1980
(Date)



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
(as of October 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                    US$ million
Credit                                             Amount       (less cancellations)
Number     Year   Borrower         Purpose         Bank   IDA 1/    Undisbursed
Three Loans and Four Credits Fully Disbursed    13.7   15.8
1138       1975  Sierra Leone   Agriculture II   5.0          -          0.35
573       1975  Sierra Leone   Education II          -    7.3           2.52
734       1977  Sierra Leone   Third Power           -    8.2           0.20
970       1979  Sierra Leone   Technical
Assistance         -    2.5           2.50
Total                            18.7   33.8           5.57
of which has been repaid        5.0    0.2
Total now outstanding            13.7   33.6
Amount sold         0.5
of which has
been repaid       0.5
Total now held by
Bank and IDA                   13.7   33.6
Total undisbursed                0.35   5.22           5.57
1/ Net of Exchange Adjustments.



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION l/
Credit No. 573-SL - Second Education Project: US$7.25 million
Credit of July 29, 1975; Effective Date: Sept. 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project administration continues to be efficient and physical
implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Contracts have been awarded for
all civil works, equipment, and furniture. Training courses for technical
teachers and for community development workers are progressing satisfactorily
at the new facilities constructed under the project, and curriculum develop-
ment is well underway. The only significant project difficulties have arisen
in connection with efforts to strengthen the local capacity for educational
research and planning by providing assistance to the Institute of Education and
the Ministry of Education Planning Unit. The principal source of this problem
is the lack of qualified local staff. The project includes fellowships to
train local staff in these areas, but their recruitment for project institu-
tions could be delayed by the present freeze on civil service recruitment.
Credit No. 568-SL   Second Agricultural Project:  US$5 million
Credit of July 2, 1975 aned US$5 million Loan
of July 2, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Eastern Province portion was completed June 30, 1980 and the
Government is now carrying the full cost of maintaining project activities in
that area. In the Northern Province, delays were originally encountered due
to management constraints, but full momentum has now been attained. Because
of the initial delays and rising costs, supplemental funds were needed for
agricultural inputs. In addition, the original funds for feeder roads proved
inadequate, in part because roads were built to a higher standard than had
been anticipated at appraisal. To cover both shortfalls, the executive
Directors approved a US$2 million EEC Special Action Credit which became
effective July 2, 1980.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Credit No. 734-SL   Third Power Project:  US$8.2 million
Credit of September 29, 1977;
Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The extension of the King Tom power plant (financed by IDA) has
already been completed and is in operation. Progress is being made in
installation of the 33 kV grid and the new generating units (both financed by
BADEA) for the provincial centers. The financial management consultants have
completed their studies and have submitted their recommendations to SLEC's
management. The feasibility study of the Bumbuna hydroelectric scheme has
been completed. Although some improvement has been achieved in the technical
operation of the corporation, there is no noticeable improvement in its weak
financial and management condition. SLEC-s financial problems stem to a large
extent from the failure of the Government to settle its accounts with SLEC and
the need for a tariff increase which the Government has not yet approved.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   2 years (October 1977-
October 1979)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:   Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF) with assist-
ance from World Bank Regional
Mission for West Africa
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:              October 1977
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  January 25, 1980
(e) Date of completion of
negotiations:                      October 10, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:   April 1, 1981
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
Establishment of revolving fund to finance road construction
(para. 45)
Section III:   Special Conditions
The following special conditions are included in the draft
Credit Agreement:
(a) On the basis of the approved budget, Government to
(i) make appropriate allocations in the MAF budget and
release the necessary funds to MAF quarterly in advance,
and (ii) make timely allocations of the necessary
foreign exchange for the import of recurrent farm inputs
and other goods (paras. 42 and 52);
(b) Timetable for the removal of all subsidies on fertilizer,
(para. 56);
(c) Conversion of Le 1.0 million of Government's Le 1.9
million loan to Daru Oil Palm Company (DOPC) into equity
with interest on this loan waived (para 48);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(d) Ministry of Works (MOW) to make arrangements satisfactory
to IDA for: (i) CARE to carry out road construction
and maintenance for two years; (ii) MOW to assume main-
tenance responsibility for roads when turned over by CARE;
and (iii) MOW to maintain all trunk and feeder roads in
the project area (para. 51);
(e) Appointment of FFC as a Licensed Buying Agent for coffee
and cocoa (para. 47);
(f) Government to review annually with IDA seasonal and
medium-term interest rates charged under the project
(para. 46);
(g) Government equity contribution of Le 500,000 to FFC
(para. 47);
(h) Price of fresh fruit bunches and palm oil for the Daru
Oil Palm Company (DOPC) to be reviewed with IDA annually
and maintained at levels in line with prevailing domestic
market prices (para. 48);
(i) Maintenance of separate accounts and audit for project,
DOPC, and FFC (para. 52);
(j) Upgrading all-weather conditions of trunk roads: Manowa
junction to Sefadu, and Daru to Joru (condition of
disbursement, para. 51);
(k) Execution of contract between Government and CARE to
govern road construction (condition of disbursement,
para. 51);
(1) Acquisition of 300 ha of land suitable for oil palm
cultivation and payment of appropriate compensation
to smallholders, satisfactory to IDA (condition of
disbursement, para. 48);
(m)  Establishment of special account (condition of dis-
bursement, para 45);
(n) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
proposed BADEA loan of US$8.5 million to be fulfilled
(condition of effectiveness, para.. 43);
(o) Recruitment of the Senior Training Officer and Senior
Credit Specialist (conditions of effectiveness, paras.
46 and 49); and
(p) Execution of Financing Agreements with FFC and DOPC
(conditions of effectiveness, para. 47 and 48).



IBRD 14872
MARCH 1980
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -Im
KtLOWTERS                                      - 19 ~O kD   40  30   60  70(EIADP   - }                                           *       cAe" "tales
-   #   S   t   ^   .  r  .  ¢,                                             -               5               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existtng roads
.G 2NPved)Primary oed secondary
ar,   J   %d  %  ,5             1                                       M-s r.By..                  -         ~~~~~~~~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~UnpavedJ  e
- Xt t S a.-<:\ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Feeder roads
international airport
G    G        1, N It E      -tkIO' A                                                                                                  +E /  Ar [IIIII rsirIAPsr
-InternaOtional baundaries
-Provincial bouncoOries
SiebRA LEONE' ,   0^5    Mr,   NtEmA    -thn ,         z,ncgaXcF oO)   arbt/PrtN                                                                              IO
AJIANTIrC  OCdFAN                            rfto70an-drMaint                                  
a GCce tf s.,ch bt tm't&eG    U                                                                              I'  N



