CREDIT NUMBER 1094 SL
Development Credit Agreement
(Eastern Integrated Agricultural
Development Project III)
between
SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1094 SL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   / 2)      , 1981, between
SIERRA LEONE (hereinafter called th   orrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreewent, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
of the Borrower;
(b) "MOW" means the Ministry of Works of the Borrower;
(c) "FFC" means the Farmers Finance Company, a company
whose shares are owned in their majority by the Borrower;
(d) "DOPC" means the Daru Oil Palm Company, a company
whose shares are owned in their majority by the Borrower;
(e) "PEMSU" means the Planning, Evaluation, Monitoring
and Services Unit of MAF;
(f) "CARE" means the Cooperative American Relief Everywhere,
a non-profit institution;
(g) "BADEA Loan" means the Loan for an amount of not less
than $8,500,000 provided in the Loan Agreement entered into
between Sierra Leone and the Bangue Arabe our le Developpement
Economique en Airique;


﻿-2-
(h) "First Agricultural Credit Agreement" means the Credit
Agreement for Credit No. 323-SL of June 30, 1972, between the
Borrower and the Association;
(i) "Second Agricultural Credit Agreement" means the Credit
Agreement for Credit No. 568-SL of July 2, 1975, between the
Borrower and the Association;
(j) "Agricultural Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement
for Loan No. 1138-SL of July 2, 1975, between the Borrower and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
(k) "Special Account" means the account to be opened pur-
suant to Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(1) "Financing Agreement" means each of the agreements to
be entered into by the Borrower with FFC and DOPC pursuant to
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, respec-
tively;
(m) "Leone" or "LE" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(n) "Project Preparation Advance" means the amount advanced
by the Association to the Borrower for the preparation of the
Project under an agreement constituted by the Borrower's letter
dated November 3, 1980 and the Association's letter dated
December 18, 1980.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03 (a) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part
B (ii) of the Project, open a Special Account, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association.    Withdrawals out of the Special
Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable costs of
goods and services required to carry out Part B (ii) of the
Project and to be financed under this Agreement in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 and Schedule 1 hereto.
(b) The Association shall, promptly, after the Borrower has'
complied with its obligations under paragraph (a) above and
Sections 3.01 (f) (ii) and 4.04 (a) of this Agreement, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account an initial amount in Leones equivalent to SDR
230,000. Thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, the Associa-
tion shall further so withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts
equal to payments made out of the Special Account for expenditures
for Part B (ii) of the Project eligible for financing under this
Agreement, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of SDR 230,000. Except as the
Association shall otherwise determine, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association on behalf of
the Borrower from the Credit Account under the same Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
and in the same respective amounts, as have been justified by the
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pur-
suant to paragraph (c) of this Section.
(c) Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit by the Association on behalf of the Borrower into
the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
in respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association shall
reasonably request, showing that the payment was made on account
of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for Part B
(ii) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(d) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible for financing from the Credit


﻿-4-
Account, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association and, unless otherwise
determined by the Association, prior to any further deposit in the
Special Account by the Association, deposit in the Special Account
an amount equal to the amount.of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.
(e) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (b) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be
requested by the Borrower when the Association shall have deter-
mined that all further withdrawals from the Credit Account may be
made directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account under
Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or when the total amount withdrawn
from the Credit Account for Part B (ii) of the Project plus the
amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association and of any special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for
such Part of the Project shall have reached the equivalent of
SDR 1,526,000, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the
Credit Account of the remaining amount of the Credit for Part B
(ii) of the Project shall follow such procedures as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association and shall be made
only to the extent that the Association shall be satisfied by the
evidence submitted in support of the applications for such with-
drawal that all payments by the Borrower out of the Special
Account were made on account of the reasonable cost of goods or
services required for Part B (ii) of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1991, and
ending August 15, 2030, each installment to and including the
installment payable on August 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts B
(except Part B (ii)), D and E of the Project through MAF and
Part B (ii) of the Project through MOW, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,
financial, administratir and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into a Financing Agreement with
FFC, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, such
Agreement to include, inter alia: (i) the Borrower's obligation to
transfer to FFC the proceeds of the Credit allocated under Cate-
gories (1) and (4) (c) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement in the form of equity contributions; and (ii) FFC's
commitment to carry out the obligations contained in paragraph (e)
below.
(c) The Borrower shall enter into a Financing Agreement with
DOPC, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, such Agreement to include, inter alia: (i) the Borrower's
obligation to transfer to DOPC the proceeds of the Credit allo-
cated under Category (4) (b) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement in the form of equity contributions; and (ii) DOPC's


﻿obligation to carry out Part C of the Project pursuant to para-
graph (g) below.
(d) Without any limitation or -restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take
and cause to be taken all act.ion, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable FFC and DOPC to carry out Parts A and C of
the Project, respectively, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carry-
ing out of such Parts of the Project by FFC and DOPC.
(e) The Borrower shall cause FFC:
(i) to carry out Part A of the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and to make available to the
farmers who are beneficiaries of the Project
financial assistance in conformity with the terms
and conditions for Credits set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement;
(ii) to use the proceeds of the equity contributions
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) exclusively for
purposes of Part A of the Project; and
(iii) to provide, promptly as needed, the seeds, fertil-
izers and other agricultural inputs to the farmers
included in Part A of the Project, in accordance
with appropriate agricultural and technical
practices.
(f) The Borrower shall:
(i) carry out, acting by MOW, Part B (ii) of the
Project in accordance with annual road construc-
tion programs, satisfactory to the Association,
approved by MAF, MOW and CARE;
(ii) enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory
to the Association, with CARE for the provision by
CARE of the engineering, technical and labor
services required to carry out Part B (ii) of the
Project, such arrangements to include, inter alia,
the obligations of the Borrower to provide CARE
with the funds and facilities necessary to maintain


﻿-7-
the roads included in Part B (ii) of the Project
for a period of not less than two years from the
date of completion of such Part of the Project.
(g) The Borrower shall cause DOPC to carry out Part C of the
Project in accordance with appropriate agricultural and financial
practices.
(h) The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part D (iv) of the
Project: (i) by April 30, 1981, initiate the execution of the
baseline socioeconomic survey under terms satisfactory to the
Association; (ii) by April 1, 1982, complete the survey referred
to in (i) above; (iii) by April 30, 1982, furnish to the Associa-
tion for comment the conclusions of the survey referred to in (i)
and (ii) above; (iv) thereafter based on the conclusions of the
survey referred to in (i) and (ii) above, not later than April 30
of each year put into effect a monitoring and evaluation program
under terms satisfactory to the Association; and (v) furnish to
the Association for comments not later than May 1 of each year the
conclusions of the programs referred to above.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) in order to assist MOW in the design of the annual road
construction program referred to in sub-paragraph f (i) of Section
3.01 to this Agreement and in the technical supervision of the
execution of such program, emrloy an engineering consultant whose
qualifications and experience,, and terms and conditions of employ-
ment, shall be satisfactory to the Association;
(b) in order to assist the Borrower in the preparation
of the research program referred to in Part D (v) of the Project,
by September 1, 1981, employ consultants whose qualifications and
experience, and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c) in order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of Part D (iii) of the Project, employ consuLai.ts whose qualifi-
cations and experience, and tertms and ccnditicns of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Assodiatioa.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrcwer undert.kes to insure and shall
cause FFC and DOPC to insure, or make or cause to be made adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Cree4t against ha"nrds incident to the


﻿8-
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance, any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) appropriate and release on a quarterly basis the funds,
other than the proceeds of the Credit, necessary for MAF, FFC
and DOPC to carry out the Project and to maintain the existing
levels of agricultural production in the Borrower's Eastern
Province in the immediately following quarter, the amount of such
funds to be determined in accordance with quarterly budgets
submitted by MAF, FFC and DOPC; and
(b) provide in a timely manner the foreign exchange neces-
sary to acquire, promptly as needed, the goods (including agricul-
tural inputs) necessary to carry out the Project, to maintain the
existing crop and planted areas and such areas to be rehabili-
tated or established under the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) for purposes of carry-
ing out Part D of the Project (A) employ and, thereafter, maintain
as head of MAF's regional agricultural office at the Borrower's
Eastern Province, an agricultural professional, whose qualifica-
tions and experience shall be satisfactory to the Association, and
(B) employ a senior training officer whose qualifications and
experience, and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) for purposes of carrying out
Part E of the Project, employ a Projects coordinator, a senior
credit specialist, a senior sector planner, a Project planner, a
financial controller and a Project economist whose qualifications
and experience, and terms and conditions of employment, shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall grant or cause to be
granted to FFC a license enabling FFC to act as a buying agent for
cocoa and coffee products in the territory of the Borrower.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) not later than ninety days after the Effective


﻿-9-
Date, make an equity contribution to FFC under terms satisfactory
to the Association, in an amount of not less than LE 100,000; (ii)
thereafter, make additional equity contributions in an aggregate
amount of not less than LE 400,000 (excluding the contribution
referred to in (i) above), under terms satisfactory to the
Association, the proceeds of such contributions to be made avail-
able by the Borrower to FFC promptly after FFC's request; pro-
vided, however, that an amount of not less than LE 200,000 shall
be so contributed not later than a year after the Effective Date
and the remaining LE 200,000, not later than two years after the
Effective Date.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) establish and maintain
an engineering services unit in charge of the supervision of Part
B of the Project, and confer to such unit authority and resources
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) employ as head of the
unit referred to in (i) above an engineer whose qualifications and
experience, and terms and conditions of employment, shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall by June 1, 1981, enter into
contractual arrangements with DOPC, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, to establish the terms and conditions of a loan of
LE 1,900,000 made by the Borrower to DOPC, such arrangements to
include, inter alia: (i) the conversion of not less than LE
1,000,000 into equity to be held by the Borrower in DOPC; (ii) the
waiver of all interest and other charges accrued on such loan up
to the date of the contractual arrangements referred to above; and
(iii) the repayment of the remaining LE 900,000 in a period of not
less than ten years and with interest at a rate which shall not
exceed 11% yearly on the outstanding balance; provided, however,
that DOPC shall not pay any amount of the loan until the current
DOPC's accumulated loss of LE 683,000 has been totally absorbed by
the profits derived from the operations of DOPC.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, and cause FFC
and DOPC to furnish, to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract docu-
ments and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, and cause FFC and DOPC
to maintain, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits


﻿- 10 -
to be derived from it), to. identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable, and cause FFC and DOPC to
enable, the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, and
cause FFC and DOPC to furnish, to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, FFC, DOPC and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.10. Not later than one month after June 30 and
December 31 of each year, the Borrower shall prepare a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and physical progress of the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out Part C of the Project and for the
construction (and operation) of the facilities included in Part B
of the Project and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) In regard to the acquisition of the land required for
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall compensate, or cause
DOPC to compensate, the landholders affected by such land acqui-
sition on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FFC and DOPC
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of FFC and DOPC.
(b) The Borrower shall cause FFC and DOPC to: (i) have
their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the reports of such
audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of FFC and DOPC and the audits thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause FFC and DOPC to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other
provision satisfactory to the Association for5 insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, acting by MOW:
(a) (i) by March 1, 1981, prepare and furnish to the
Association a program satisfactory to the Association, to upgrade
to an all-weather capability the roads from Manowa Junction to
Sefadu and from Daru to Joru, and (ii) by March 31, 1981, put into
effect the program referred to in (i) above.


﻿- 12 -
(b) (i) by January 31 of each year, prepare and furnish to
the Association a program, satisfactory to the Association,
detailing the civil works to be carried out during each such year
for the maintenance of the trunk and feeder roads included in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and those to be completed under the
Project, and (ii) by March 1 of each year, put into effect the
program referred to in (b) (i) above.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all action necessary to terminate, by January 1, 1985, the exist-
ing Borrower's subsidies on the sale of fertilizers, such action
to include the reduction, by January 1 of each year, starting
January 1, 1982, of 25% of the subsidies in effect on the date of
this Agreement.
Section 4.06. (a) From time to time and at least once every
calendar year, the Borrower and the Association shall review the
adequacy of, and, if necessary, revise, the interest rates for
seasonal and medium-term loans to be made under the Project.
(b) From time to time and at least once every year, the
Borrower shall: (i) review with the Association DOPC's prices
for out growers' oil palm fresh fruit bunches and palm oil; and
(ii) based on the review referred to in (i) above, fix DOPC's
prices for out growers' oil palm fresh fruit bunches and palm
oil at a level which is in line with the prevailing prices in
the domestic market for such goods.
Section 4.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall convert or cause to convert into FFC's
equity the profits obtained by FFC from its operations as a
financial and commercial enterprise.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, by July 1, 1981, take all
action necessary to integrate into MAF the organizational units
established by the Borrower in its Eastern Province for purposes
of carrying out the projects referred to in the First and Second
Agricultural Credit Agreements, such integration to be carried out
by the Borrower in accordance with appropriate administrative,
personnel and managerial practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿13 -
(a) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
obligation of the Borrower (other than an obligation to pay
monies) on the part of the Borrower under the First Agricultural
Credit Agreement, the Second Agricultural Credit Agreement and the
Agricultural Loan Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FFC or DOPC or for the suspension of its operations
related to the carrying out of the Project;
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the BADEA Loan made to the Bor-
rower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) such Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and. shall continue for a period
of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall. occur.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Amendment to the Second Agricultural
Credit Agreement
Section 6.01. The Second. Agricultural Credit Agreement
is hereby amended by the deletion of Section 4.03 of such
Agreement and the substitution therefor of Section 4.05 of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning *of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions: (a) that the Banque Arabe pour le Developpement
Economique en Afrique has notified the Association that all
conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the BADEA Loan
have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this
Agreement, if such be the case;
(b) that the Financing Agreements to be entered into by the
Borrower with FFC and DOPC, have been duly executed on behalf of
the parties thereto; and
(c) that the Borrower has employed the senior training
officer and the senior credit specialist referred to in Section
3.05 of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The date        /1V /q/ is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section     .   of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 15 -
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretay
The Ministry of Finance
Freetown
Sierra Leone
MINFIN
Freetown
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SIERRA LEONE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category.                     SDR's)         to be Financed
(1) Goods and services            1,900,000       100% of foreign
for Part A of the                            expenditures and
Project                                      90% of local
expenditures
(2) Civil works
(a) for Part B (ii)          1,756,000       100%
of the Project
(b)  for Part B (iii),         610,000       100% of foreign
(iv) and (v) of                         expenditures
the Project                             and 85% of local
expenditures
(3) Internationally                 762,000       100%
recruited staff
and consultant
services for
Parts D and E of
the Project
(4) Operating costs                               100% of foreign
(excluding salaries)                         expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a) for Parts D (i)          1,300,000
and E (i) of
the Project
(MAF abd PEMSU)


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                     SDR's)         to be Financed
(b) for Part C of the          78,000
Project(DOPC)
(c) for Part E (ii)           316,000
of the Project
(FFC)
(5) Vehicles and equipment       1,220,000      100%
for Part B (ii) of
the Project
(6) Initial withdrawal             230,000
for Special Account
under Section 2.02
(c) to prefinance
goods and services
under Category
(2) (a)
(7) Refinancing of advance          78,000
for Project preparation
(8) Unallocated                    950,000
TOTAL         9,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for j!ocds or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 18 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, pro-
vided, however, that the Association, on behalf of the Borrower,
shall, on or promptly after the Effective Date of this Agreement,
withdraw from the Credit Account under Category (7) of paragraph 1
above, the proceeds of the Credit allocated under such Category
necessary to pay itself the outstanding amount of principal of,
and accrued charges on, the Project Preparation Advance.
(b) expenditures under Category (4) (b) of such paragraph,
until evidence satisfactory to the Association has been provided
to the Association, that DOPC has acquired the land referred to in
Section 3.11 of this Agreement and has complied with its obliga-
tions under paragraph (b) thereof;
(c) expenditures under Category (2) (a) and (5) of such
paragraph, until evidence, satisfactory to the Association, has
been provided to the Association that the Borrower has put into
effect the program referred to in Section 4.04 (a) of this Agree-
ment; and
(d) expenditures under Category (2) (a) and (6) of such
paragraph until evidence, satisfactory to the Association, has
been furnished to the Association that: (i) the Special Account
has been opened on the terms and conditions referred to in Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower and CARE have
entered into the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 (f) (ii) of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in


﻿- 19 -
paragraph I above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the third phase of a program designed to
promote agricultural development in the Eastern Province of the
Borrower, covering about 15,350 square kilometers. The Project
consists of the following parts:
Part A.   Crop Development
Provision of labor, agricultural inputs, machinery and
equipment, to be made available through seasonal and medium term
financing to farmers under the conditions set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, as required to: (i) increase production of
about 2,000 ha of inland swamp rice; (ii) increase production of
about 10,000 ha of upland rice and cassava crops; (iii) rehabili-
tate about 800 ha of existing coffee and of about 1,000 ha of
existing cocoa holdings; and (iv) plant about 2,000 ha of new
coffee holdings and about 800 ha of new cocoa holdings.
Part B.   Civil Works
(i) Construction of about 300 wells in villages with
population of less than 1,000 inhabitants each;
(ii) construction of about 300 km of penetration roads
and chiefdom tracks, of which at least 170 km will
correspond to penetration roads.
(iii) construction of about five houses for project manage-
ment, extension offices and project engineer;
(iv) construction of a workshop for maintenance of vehicles
and equipment for the Project in the Kono district;
and
(v) construction of about four new farm service centers
and installation of about four drying floors in existing
farm service centers of FFC.
Part C.   DOPC
Planting and cultivation of about 300 ha of oil palms and
acquisition and utilization of vehicles and equipment to increase
DOPC's nucleus estate palm oil production capability.


﻿- 21 -
Part D.   Extension Services, Training and Studies
(i) Extension and related farm services for Part A of the
Project;
(ii) A health education program, for the use and maintenance
of the wells included in Part B (i) of the Project;
(iii) A training program, in the Borrower's territory and
abroad, for the management staffs of MAF, FFC, DOPC and
PEMSU in charge of the Project;
(iv) A baseline socioeconomic survey followed by annual
monitoring and evaluation programs in the area comprised
in the Project.
(v) A research program, to be prepared by December 31, 1981,
for improving smallholder's production of cocoa, coffee
and oil palm.
Part E.    Support Services
(i) Personnel, vehicles and equipment for PEMSU to allow
PEMSU to carry out its planning, project execution,
monitoring and evaluation activities; and
(ii) Personnel, vehicles and equipment for FFC to allow FFC
to carry out its agricultural inputs distribution and
buying agent activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Paragraph B hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part B
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower or FFC or DOPC, as
the case may be, shall prepare and forward to the Association as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to
the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower or FFC or DOPC, as the case may be, shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to *be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (Ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost to
the Borrower or FFC or DOPC, as the case may be, of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 23 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods and works estimated to
cost, after grouping in accordance with paragraph 1.1 of Part A of
the Guidelines, less than $50,000 but more than $10,000, and,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, in an aggregate
value of up to $1,900,000, and contracts for works under Part B
(iii), (iv) and (v) of the Project shall be awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures, satisfactory to the
Association, or following evaluation and comparison of quotations
furnished by at least three suppliers, provided that at least two
foreign suppliers were invited to furnish such quotations.
2.   Contracts for goods and works estimated to cost after group-
ing in accordance with paragraph 1.1 of Part A of the Guidelines,
the equivalent of $10,000 or less shall be awarded following
evaluation and comparison of quotations furnished by at least
three suppliers.
3.   Contracts for civil works under Part B (ii) of the Project
shall be procured through the contractual arrangements referred to
in Section 3.01 (f) (ii) of this Agreement.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Sierra Leone may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufact,red in
Sierra Leone if the biddei shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associ-
ation that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value adde' in Sierra Leone equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.


﻿- 24 -
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower or FFC or DOPC, as
the case may be, shall furnish to the Association, for its com-
ments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 25 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower or FFC or DOPC, as the case may be, shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall
furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and FFC or DOPC, as
the case may be, and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first applicatIon for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower or FFC or DOPC, as the case may be, shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and FFC or DOPC, as the
case may be, and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower or FFC or
DOPC, as the case may be, shall inform the Association of the
proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and the
reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform the Borrower and FFC or DOPC, as the
case may be, and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Financial
Assistance to Farmers
The goods and services to. be provided under Part A of the
Project, shall be made available by FFC to the farmers benefitting
from the Project, with financial assistance made available to them
by FFC in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
A.   Seasonal Credits:
(a) interest rate: 20% annually on outstanding amounts;
and
(b) agricultural inputs eligible for financing:
(i) seed, cassava sets and tools for upland rice
and cassava plantations;
(ii) seed fertilizer and labor for swamp rice
plantations;
(iii) seedlings, insecticides and fungicides for
cocoa rehabilitation;
(iv) seedlings, fertilizers and pesticides for
coffee rehabilitation;
(v) fertilizer, pesticides, tools and labor from
the fourth year onward for new cocoa planta-
tions; and
(vi) fertilizers and pesticides from the sixth
year onward for coffee planting.
B.   Medium Term Loans:
(a) interest rate: 15% annually;
(b) agricultural inputs eligible for financing and
payment period:
(i) tools, pedal thresher and first-year seed
for swamp rice holdings; to be paid in
4 years, including 1 year of grace;


﻿- 27 -
(ii) sprayers for cocoa rehabilitation; to be
paid in 5 years, including 1 year of grace;
(iii) seedlings, fertilizers, pesticides, sprayers
and labor for new cocoa holdings; to be
paid in 10 years, including 4 years of
grace;
(iv) crop loss credit, seedlings, fertilizers,
chemical products and tools for coffee
rehabilitation; to be paid in 5 years,
including 2 years of grace; and
(v) seedlings, fertilizers, chemical products,
tools and labor for new coffee holdings; to
be paid in 8 years, including 4 years of
grace; and
(c) farmers' initial payment of 10% of the cost of
agricultural inputs.


﻿- 28 -
Schedule 5
Trunk and feeder roads included in
maintenance program
Blama                -      Konta
Blama                -      Gandehun
Kenema               -      Joru
Joru                 -      Zimmi
Mano Junction        -      Panguma
Panguma              -      Dodo
Segbwema Junction    -      Manowa Junction
Manowa Junction      -      Sefadu
Sefadu               -      Kainkordu
Manowa Junction      -      Pendembu
Kailahun             -      Morfindor
Kailahun             -      Koindu
Daru                 -      Joru


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  2S?       day of
198.
FOR SECRETARY


