Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 FILE COPY
Report No. P-2458-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 22, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1           =  CFAF 220 /1
CFAF 1 million =  US$4,545
/1   Floating exchange rate.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS
CAMAIR:      Cameroon Airlines
DH:          Department of Highways
DHM:         Division of Highway Maintenance
IGERA:       General State Inspectorate
MINEH:       Ministry of Equipment and Housing
MINEP:       Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning
MOT:         Ministry of Transport
NCEEP:       National Civil Engineering Equipment Pool
REGIFERCAM:  Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroon
RPU:         Road Planning Unit
SMDCWC:      Small- and Medium-Scale Domestic Civil Works Contractors
TPB:         Training Production Brigade
TPCU:        Transport Planning and Coordination Unit



CAMEROON                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  United Republic of Cameroon
Amount:                    US$10 million IDA Credit
US$38 million IBRD Loan
Terms:                     Credit:  Standard
Loan: 20 years including 5 years of grace at
annual interest rate of 7.9 percent.
Project Description:       The proposed project is designed mainly to improve
the Government's capacity to maintain roads; other
objectives are to promote small- and medium-scale
domestic contractors, control vehicle loads and
improve road planning. The project would consist of
the following main components:
(i)  a three-year training program for maintenance
staff of the Department of Highways and the
National Civil Engineering Equipment Pool;
(ii) a four-year program for the maintenance of about
16,900 km of roads, and the rehabilitation of
about 1,350 km of unpaved roads, by force
account;
(iii)  rehabilitation of about 340 km of unpaved
roads by domestic contractors with technical
assistance;
(iv) provision of two weighing stations;
(v)  setting up and staffing of a Road Planning Unit
in the Department of Highways; and,
(vi) road preinvestment studies.
The benefits for Cameroon would mainly consist
of savings in vehicle operating costs which would
initially accrue to road users and subsequently
be passed on to producers and consumers as avoided
tariff increases. The project would also stimulate
agricultural development since the access roads to
be rehabilitated will complement feeder roads under
construction integrated with agricultural develop-
ment projects. The possible risks associated with
the large scale of the proposed piogram have been
kept to a minimum by phasing the project in line with
the perceived absorptive capacity of the agencies
involved.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs
Foreign
US$'000                   as x
Foreign  Taxes   Local   Total   of Total
A.  Training                        1,376      268      343   1,987       69
B. Road maintenance and
rehabilitation 1/             24,773  10,281   8,189  43,243         58
C.  Weighing stations               1,006      262      342   1,610       63
D. Promotion of domestic
contractors                     3,785   1,014   2,119   6,918        54
E.  Road planning                     243       42       71      356      68
F.  Preinvestment studies           2,556      472      905   3,933       65
Total base cost               33,739  12,339  11,969  58,047         58
Physical contingencies          1,760      748     277   2,785       63
Price contingencies            12,639   4,834   4,814  22,287        57
Total                   48,138  17,921  17,060  83,119        58
Rounded                 48,000  18,000  17,000  83,000         58
Financing Plan:                                 US$'000
Foreign      Local       Total
IBRD/IDA                      48,000            -      48,000
Government (including taxes)        -      35,000      35,000
Total                   48,000      35,000      83,000
Estimated Disbursements:
US$'000
Fiscal Year           1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Annual                1,200   2,000   6,800  14,000  14,000   7,500   2,500
Cumulative            1,200   3,200  10,000  24,000  38,000  45,500  48,000
Economic Rate of Return:  82 percent on 80 percent of project costs for which
benefits have been quantified.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2225-CM dated May 18, 1979.
Map:                        IBRD 13733R
1/   Capital costs only; recurrent costs to be provided by Government.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$38 million and a development credit for the
equivalent of US$10 million to the United Republic of Cameroon to help
finance a Fourth Highway Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum; the
development credit would be on standard IDA terms. The grant element
corresponding to this Bank/IDA blend would be 17.2 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon Economic Memorandum"
(No. 1798-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 5, 1978.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon has a population of about 7.8 million (1977) and covers an
area of 475,000 km2. The country's natural resources are considerable and
varied, but not always easily accessible. Soils and climatic conditions per-
mit cultivation of a wide range of crops, and the forest areas of the south-
east contain large untapped timber resources. The north holds promising
potential for livestock development. The main opportunities for development
in Cameroon lie in the expansion of agricultural production, including for-
estry, and the processing of agricultural and forestry products for export.
Offshore oil and gas exploration has yielded modest results. Trade, trans-
portation and transit services are other important economic activities.
Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by vast underpopulated areas;
furthermore, the country's transport facilities also serve landlocked Chad.
As a result, a large port and adequate inland transport infrastructure are
essential for promoting agriculture, forestry and industry, and strengthening
Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
Past Performance
4.        During the Second Plan period (1966-71), GDP increased at a high
rate of 7.6 percent per annum. However, during the Third Plan period (1971-
76), output grew at only 2.5 percent per annum for a number of reasons:
(i) the drought which affected the north of Cameroon in 1972 and 1973; (ii)
the impact of world-wide recession and unfavorable terms of trade; (iii)
serious difficulties in maintaining and expanding Cameroon's main tree crops,



- 2 -
compounded by the failure of producer prices to keep up with those of compet-
ing food cash crops and inputs; and (iv) the limited size, early saturation,
and slow expansion of the domestic market for import substituting manufac-
tures. The terms of trade improved during 1966-71 but deteriorated during
1971-76. As a result, gross domestic income increased faster than GDP, at
8.3 percent per annum during 1966-71, but grew by only 2.4 percent per annum
during 1971-76. Population growth is estimated at about 1.8 percent per annum
in the 1960s, about 1.9 percent until the mid 1970s and about 2.3 percent from
1975-80. Per capita GNP reached about US$340 in 1977.
5.        During the 1960s, a confluence of a number of favorable factors led
to the high growth of output and income. Agriculture, accounting for about
one-third of GDP, increased at a rate of 5.5 percent per annum during 1966-71.
Except for cotton, rubber, millet/sorghum, most agricultural crops, livestock,
fishing and forestry experienced high growth rates thanks to favorable supply
and demand conditions such as high producer prices, high domestic income
growth, and rapid economic expansion abroad. For example, in the 1960s
although Cameroon already faced the problem of the increasing age of its cocoa
and coffee trees, supply was still able to increase reflecting the high level
of new planting during the 1950s and early 1960s. In addition, the Government
was able to maintain adequate cocoa producer prices even when export prices
dropped because of the reserves built up earlier in the cocoa stabilization
fund. Manufacturing and mining, accounting for 11 percent of GDP, increased
at 12 percent per annum during 1966-71 due mainly to the rapid development
of import substitution industries, particularly manufactured consumer goods,
facilitated by the high rate of domestic income growth and the availability of
foreign exchange for the purchase of inputs and intermediate goods. The high
rate of agricultural and industrial expansion was accompanied by the rapid
growth of construction activities, public administration and other services.
6.        In contrast, during the Third Plan period, a number of external and
internal factors led to a much reduced growth in output and income. Agricul-
tural growth declined to only 3.6 percent per annum, influenced particularly
by commercial crops (1.3 percent per annum, or less than one-tenth of the
preceding rate), while on the other hand, production of the staple food crops
expanded at about 6 percent per annum reflecting increasing demand and high
prices for such crops in urban areas. Growth in commercial forestry produc-
tion declined sharply due to reduced Western European demand, lower domestic
construction activities, and some transportation bottlenecks, while the
drought cut growth in livestock production (mainly cattle in the north) from
7.2 percent to 3.3 percent per annum. Cocoa and arabica coffee, accounting
for about 55 percent of commercial crops, actually decreased in production,
mainly because of the failure of cocoa and coffee producer prices to keep
up with those of competing food cash crops, the termination of the foreign
supported fertilizer subsidy program for arabica coffee, the increasing age
of cocoa and coffee trees, unfavorable climatic conditions in some years, and
inadequate Government services to counter the black pod disease of the cocoa
trees. The record for the other main commercial crops was much better. The
declining trend in cotton experienced in the earlier Plan period was reversed



in large part through the efforts of SODECOTON, a specialized public enter-
prise; reversal from decline to growth in rubber and an acceleration in growth
of oil palm were facilitated by two plantation projects assisted by the World
Bank Group and other co-donors. Growth in manufacturing slowed, following
the first wave of import substitution. With rising costs and expanded claims
on available public revenues, real growth in public administration was also
reduced below the 1966-71 rate. Construction actually declined during 1971-76
and with a deceleration in exports, near stagnation in imports and the low
growth in real income throughout the economy, other services (mainly trade and
transport) increased only at one percent per annum.
Investment and Savings
7.        During the Second Plan period (1966-71), the investment rate, in-
cluding increases in stocks, exceeded 16 percent of GDP, and gross domestic
savings and gross national savings were respectively 13.4 and 12.6 percent
of GDP. Foreign resources financed about 33 percent of investment during
this period. During the Third Plan period, despite slow income growth, the
investment rate increased to 18.1 percent of GDP, as the share of public
investment increased to almost 70 percent of total fixed investment. Gross
domestic savings and gross national savings rose to 16.4 and 13.9 percent of
GDP, but debt service increased by 60 percent from a small base. External
resources therefore continued to finance about one-third of total investment
during this period. This substantial improvement in savings during 1971-76
was due to a drastic reduction in the real growth of consumption, particularly
private consumption, to less than 2 percent per annum during 1966-71. One
of the prices paid for the substantial improvement in savings was, however,
a limitation on farmer's earnings in tree crops, which provided inadequate
incentives to induce farmers to obtain more output from the existing trees
and to do sufficient treatment and new plantings to maintain and expand
production capacity. The maintenance of a high investment rate during a
period of low output growth resulted in an apparent reduction in efficiency
of investment. Some reduction in capital productivity was also attributable
to investments, such as oil exploration and transport infrastructure, which
would lead to production increases only a number of years later, and social
infrastructure investments which would increase welfare more rapidly than
output. During this period there was considerable progress in the development
of high level human manpower. For example, the number of physicians increased
by more than 50 percent (decreasing the population per physician rate to about
20,000), dentists more than doubled and pharmacists increased by more than
five times.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
8.        Budgetary revenue was respectively 16.6 and 17.2 percent of GDP
during 1966-71 and 1971-76, while public savings after debt service as a
percentage of total public investment declined from about 39 percent in
1966-71 to about 36 percent in 1971-76. The balance of payments did not
become a problem until 1974-76. Imports increased rapidly in 1975 and 1976
as a result of world-wide inflation and heavy public development expenditure,
especially in capital goods. At the same time, agricultural exports declined,



- 4 -
particularly exports of cocoa and timber, causing sizeable current account
deficits. The bulk of the current account deficits was financed by net
capital inflows but a substantial drawdown of international reserves also took
place in 1975. Therefore, net official international reserves decreased from
more than two months in 1974 to less than one month of imports in 1975. In
1977, exports recovered substantially (by 35 percent) but imports also in-
creased (by 28.5 percent) because of economic recovery and expanded invest-
ment. Gross official international reserves were rebuilt in 1976 and 1977,
in part by the use of IMF credit (Oil Facilities and Compensatory Financing),
but net official international reserves continued to be less than one month
of imports in 1977. This was a low level by international standards but
still acceptable considering Cameroon's membership in the Central African
Mlonetary Union.
Development Issues and Prospects
9.         Cameroon's main medium- and long-term potential lies in the devel-
opment, through both industrial plantations and smallholders, of a diversi-
fied agricultural sector, comprising export crops and domestic food crops
to feed the growing urban population and replace imports, particularly of
grains. Implementation of such a strategy depends on an appropriate mix
of public intervention and support as well as price and policy measures to
stimulate private initiative; net financial returns to the public sector are
more difficult to capture than in a less diversified foreign trade-oriented
strategy. Factors which further complicate the agricultural development
effort in Cameroon are the extensive dispersion of its main economic and
population centers separated by vast underpopulated areas, its regional and
institutional diversity, the competition between export and cash food crops
for the dwindling agricultural labor in some parts of the country, the
dependence of a substantial part of public revenue and savings on cocoa and
coffee, and the limited availability of skilled agricultural agents and
administrators. Through its technical assistance and education projects and
through its normal project work, the World Bank Group is supporting Cameroon' s
effort in manpower training and development in the public services in agri-
culture, as well as other sectors. In industry the Government has moved to
channel more financial resources for investment directly through the public
sector, in addition to the indirect support provided by tax incentive and
other measures, which have been in existence for many years. The Government
has actively participated in a World Bank Group study of the manufacturing
sector whose results will help to identify bottlenecks and opportunities to
develop existing as well as new industrial activities.
10.        In the medium-term, GDP growth is projected to accelerate substan-
tially because of the expected recovery and expansion in various agricultural
products (including forestry), spurred by relatively high international
commodity prices, increases in manufacturing and mining production and rapid
growth in construction activities and services resulting from expanded invest-
ment activities and rapid income growth. The outlook for considerable agri-
cultural growth during 1976-81 is based on: the maintenance of cocoa output
at near the previous peak level for a number of years; recovery for robusta



- 5 -
coffee, continuing expansion for arabica coffee, cotton, rubber, oil palm and
most other commercial and food crops, as also for livestock production; and
continuing recovery, followed by further expansion, of commercial forestry
production. This projection is also based on assessment of the medium-term
demand outlook for Cameroon's exports, projects under implementation, and
certain policy alternatives. Continuing growth of manufacturing production
from existing and expanded facilities (particularly in food, beverages and
construction materials) and new manufacturing output of sugar, paper pulp and
other products, as well as crude oil and new mining, are projected to result
in a marked improvement in manufacturing and mining growth during 1976-81.
With the expansion in the productive and investment activities, construction
and services are also expected to increase at a high rate.
11.        Long-term growth is expected to be somewhat constrained by the
worsening terms of trade, which will make it difficult to sustain the high
investment rate that is expected to prevail during the 1976-81 period, and by
the need for prudent debt management to ensure the country's long-term borrow-
ing capacity. Growth prospects will be importantly influenced by the extent
to which Cameroon succeeds in the difficult task of maintaining and expanding
the country's main traditional export crops, and the large-scale development
of still unexploited forestry resources. Results of studies on the forestry
potential, forestry sector development policy, investment plans and transport
requirements, many of which are part of World Bank Group projects, will
support the latter development. In addition, there are still uncertain
indications for the exploitation of iron ore, but with heavy investment
requirements, and long lead times to establish commercially viable export
operations, production could probably not begin until the end of the 1980s.
Fourth Development Plan (1976-81)
12.        Cameroon is implementing its Fourth Economic and Social Development
Plan. Private investment is encouraged, under Government guidelines, to
expand production capacity in agriculture, forestry, mining and manufacturing.
A part of financing of private investment activities, however, will be publicly
guaranteed borrowing. The Plan investment program of some US$3.1 billion (in
1974/75 prices) is about 80 percent higher in real terms than the estimated
level achieved during the last Plan period and almost triple previous Plan
expenditure in nominal terms. Public investment is expected to account for
73 percent of total investment. However, public investment will probably be
reduced by 10-20 percent from planned levels for several reasons including:
(a) the high dependence of public revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee
prices, which are expected to decline substantially in the last three years
of the Fourth Plan (1979-81) from their record levels in the past; (b) the
need for adequate producer prices to give farmers sufficient incentives for
production and new plantings; (c) the rise in import prices, which is expected
to continue; and (d) the requirement to keep supplementary borrowing on
commercial terms at prudent levels to maintain Cameroon's long-term capacity
to borrow. The investment rate during the Fourth Plan period would then be
about 22 percent of GDP, and total investment in current prices would be
US$3.4-3.7 billion or about US$690-740 million per year.



-6-
Financial Prospects and Creditworthiness
13.       In the first two years of the Fourth Plan period (July 1976 - June
1978), thanks to favorable terms of trade, public savings after debt service
could finance about 65 percent of total public investment. However, in the
last three years (July 1978 - June 1981), public savings after debt service
are projected to finance only about 30 percent of total public investment and
this share of domestic public financing is likely to continue in the longer
run. Cameroon will thus have to rely increasingly on external financing
for the bulk of its public investment, and foreign official lenders should
finance a high proportion of total project costs of externally financed
projects, including local costs in appropriate cases. An increasing reliance
on foreign borrowing during a period of deteriorating terms of trade will
require careful external debt management. In this connection partial data
shows that borrowing on commercial terms increased significantly in the last
year and a half, although the debt situation cannot be adequately assessed
until Cameroon completes the current effort to bring its reporting up to date.
Nevertheless, Cameroon is judged to be creditworthy for Bank financing over
the medium-term on the basis of its ability to maintain and improve product-
ivity in the utilization of the country's resources and its potential in the
long-term to further diversify the economy by developing still unexploited
resources. In order to keep debt service within reasonable limits, foreign
public donors should provide at least 50 percent of public capital assistance
on concessionary terms. On this basis, the foreign debt service ratio, 8.6
percent of export earnings in 1977 should be able to be maintained below 15
percent by the mid-1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$380 mil-
lion and cover 29 projects: fourteen in agriculture, nine in transportation,
three in education, one in public utilities, one small- and medium-scale
enterprise project, and one technical assistance project. Agriculture rep-
resents the largest share (44 percent) of our past commitments followed by
transport (43 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits as of April 30, 1979, and includes notes on ongoing
projects. Although delays and setbacks have been occasionally encountered in
the execution of projects, the Government has consistently shown willingness
to collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Gov-
ernment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and enhance the efficiency of Cameroon's
institutions.
16.       The Government rightly attaches priority to the balanced regional
development of agricultural resources, and to the improvement of conditions



- 7 -
in the rural sector parallel with promotion of plantation agriculture, includ-
ing smallholder schemes. Bank Group assistance to Cameroon in agriculture is
designed to support these policy objectives. We have helped the Government
create an effective and well-managed plantation sector by financing oil palm
and rubber plantations in the south and west. The 1975 rubber project is
almost completed and we are now preparing a follow-up project to aid further
the development of the southwest coastal region. The second SOCAPALM and
CA2IDEV projects are follow-up operations to successful oil palm projects in
the western coastal regions. At the same time, we have assisted, with both
SEN4RY projects, in promoting smallholder rice irrigation in the north. The
ongoing cocoa project is helping to modernize smallholder cocoa growing and to
raise rural productivity in areas south and west of Yaounde. Rural development
projects in populated but poor regions are being established with the assis-
tance of the Bank. The Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project is financing
studies and trial activities to establish whether a full-scale rural develop-
ment program can be launched. The ZAPI-East Integrated Rural Development
Project would support ZAPI's ongoing integrated rural development activities
as well as an expansion of ZAPI's activities in eastern Cameroon. The
Western Highlands Rural Development Project provides a package of inputs,
techniques and infrastructure aimed at improving agricultural productivity
in the western part of the country. The Rural Development Fund Project is
designed to help the Government establish the machinery for processing and
implementing small-scale rural development schemes - initially in the north.
An objective of a rural development project that we are proposing for the
northern region will be to establish planning and coordination capabilities
at the provincial level as well as crop diversification, reforestation, small-
scale irrigation and rural water supply. The Government's objectiLves in its
rural development policies are to improve income distribution, to achieve a
better balance in regional development and to promote essential foodstuff
production. The Bank Group intends to increase lending for agriculture to
support these efforts. As a corollary, we are preparing the second phase
of our livestock development program which began in 1974 and will comprise
further ranch development, tse-tse eradication, training and a credit scheme
for traditional producers.
17.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with other development institutions, has substantially aided develop-
ment of adequate transport facilities. The First and Second Highway Projects
were designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. The
latter project encountered severe cost overruns which were partly alleviated
by a Supplementary Credit approved in March 1976 as well as by the elimination
of the reconstruction of the Garoua-Figuil section from the project. This
section is being financed under the Third Highway Project. The Second Railway
Project of 1974 has focused on track improvement and expansion of the equip-
ment needed to maintain and augment the railway's overall carrying capacity.
Given projected traffic increases, and the backlog of required investments,
substantial capital outlays are still necessary particularly for the expansion
of the Port of Douala, which is being assisted by a Bank loan and IDA credit,
and for some related facilities such as a railway station and marshalling yard
to be built outside the port area. An engineering loan, approved in May 1976,



- 8 -
helped complete the engineering of this station and marshalling yard. Nego-
tiations of a Fourth Railway Project aimed at the construction of this marshal-
ling yard have been completed and the project is scheduled to be presented to
the Board shortly. A study of the improvements required in the Douala-
Yaounde transport corridor which was financed under a Bank project showed that
a package comprising a realignment of the Douala-Edea section of the railroad
and the construction of a two-lane road between Douala and Yaounde would be
economically justified. The study also showed that, at present, a realignment
of the railroad sections between Edea and Malloume was not justified. A group
of donors (KfW, FED, FAC, CIDA, USAID and CCCE) has agreed to finance realign-
ment of the Douala-Edea section and work has started. Concerning the road, we
have concluded discussions with the Government who has agreed on the construc-
tion of a two-lane heavy duty road instead of the expressway it was consider-
ing at first. Regarding the Edea-Malloume section, discussions are being held
with the Government and REGIFERCAM concerning a study of alternative solutions
to complete realignment prior to taking any financial commitment.
18.       Future road investments should place greater emphasis on road
maintenance and on developing the network of feeder and farm access roads.
Our operations in the road sector have been planned accordingly. The Feeder
Roads Project approved in November 1977 will establish institutions for feeder
road administration and maintenance in addition to providing the necessary
resources for a feeder road program to support high priority agricultural/
rural development projects. The project proposed in this report will concen-
trate on road maintenance and rehabilitation of unpaved roads. In other
sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project, approved in 1975,
focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship and a second project is
in preparation. A Third Education Project, approved in April 1976, places
special emphasis on rural education and training.
19.       In all our projects we include, as needed, training, technical
assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and
improving sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project approved in June
1977 is helping to strengthen Government services in several key Ministries
involved in investment planning, policy analysis and project processing.
To help achieve the Government's priorities and to support our future lending
strategy will require continuing emphasis on strengthening the institutional
framework, particularly concerning sector planning and project preparation and
implementation in transportation, rural and urban development.
20.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements to
Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year. While at the beginning
of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the proportion of loans
slowly increased. A major part of external assistance was provided by France
and was concentrated in infrastructure and productive sectors. The European
Development Fund and European Investment Bank directed their lending mainly
to agriculture, with infrastructure in second place. Bank and IDA disburse-
ments were small during this period. From 1972 to 1976 overall disbursements
of foreign aid increased to about US$90 million per year with one-fifth as
grants. The Bank and IDA's share of these inflows amounted to about 23



percent. Our lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with other
donors; in 13 of our 29 projects, joint or parallel co-financing arrangements
have been made and we are actively seeking co-financing for several future
projects.
21.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1976,
amounted to US$529.3 million and is projected to reach US$2.1 billion in 1983.
Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to 5.9 per-
cent in 1976 and is projected to reach 12.4 percent in 1983. At that time
annual foreign aid disbursements may be over US$400 million with only 7 per-
cent consisting of grants. At end-1976 IBRD loans accounted for 10.9 percent
of Cameroon's public debt outstanding and disbursed, and 11.4 percent of its
public debt service. IDA credits accounted for 12.8 percent of public debt
outstanding and 1.1 percent of public debt service. The Bank and IDA are
expected to account for about 22 percent of total public debt and 13 percent
of public debt service in 1983.
22.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.  IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975. In September 1976, the IFC Board approved an equity
investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate (SAFACAM).
The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversification of an
existing estate that will produce rubber for export and palm oil for the
domestic market. The operation will also facilitate participation of domestic
shareholders in the estate. In November 1977, the Board approved a third
operation, an investment of up to US$125,000 in the share capital of a pro-
motional company for maize development. No commitment has yet been made on
this investment since the original technical partner has been replaced and
major changes have been made in the arrangements expected earlier. The Board
approved a second equity investment of US$390,000 in SAFACAM in September
1978. The increased capitalization is required to finance the construction of
a palm oil pressing mill. Cameroonian participation again increased with this
operation. The Societe Nationale d'Investissement, a national development
bank, is doubling its share in SAFACAM. In April 1979, the Board approved an
investment of US$7.86 million consisting of US$7 million in loan and US$0.86
million equivalent in equity in a Cameroonian aluminium producing company,
ALUCA14. The purpose of this investment is to help expand the company's pro-
duction capacity by conversion of the company's existing Sodeberg cells to
prebaked anode cells and installation of additional prebaked anode cells.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
23.       The transport infrastructure in Cameroon comprises 59,000 km of
roads, 1,153 km of railway, one principal port at Douala, two minor ports
at Victoria and Kribi and one seasonal river port at Garoua. Air transport
is served by one international airport at Douala and 13 domestic airports.
The transport system is export/import oriented and revolves mainly around
Douala, the principal economic center of the country (Map 13733).



- 10 -
24.       All imports and most exports use the port of Douala and flow
principally along the Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis and the Transcameroon
rail/road route linking Douala to north Cameroon and Chad. Cotton bales
from north Cameroon are transported more than 1,500 km by road and rail for
exports through the port of Douala. Cocoa and coffee from the western high-
lands and central mountains areas are carried by trucks or by railway about
200-300 km to Douala. Palm oil, rubber and tropical fruits are produced
in the coastal area and require only a short transport haul to be exported.
In 1977, log exports amounted to 497,000 tons of which 67 percent went
through Douala and 33 percent through Kribi. The average rail distance for
log exports through Douala is 375 km. Further expansion of log exports
depends on road improvements in the main forest belt which stretches from the
Atlantic coast to the eastern frontier and covers 37 percent of Cameroon's
area.
25.       The railways, comprising mainly the Transcameroon line (Douala-
Yaounde-Ngaoundere, 913 km) and the secondary western line (Douala-Nkongsamba,
160 km), are operated by Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun
(REGIFERCAM), an autonomous state agency. With growing traffic and recent
tariff increases, REGIFERCAM's financial performance has improved slightly.
With the assistance of the Bank and other external donors, REGIFERCAM is
taking steps to upgrade its infrastructure and solve its operational and
managerial problems.
26.       The principal port, Douala, handles 90 percent of Cameroon's foreign
and transit trade, with a throughput of 2.5 million tons. The lighterage
port of Kribi mainly handles log exports (about 164,000 tons). The ports of
Victoria and Garoua have only marginal traffic. All port operations are under
the responsibility of an autonomous state-owned company, the Cameroon National
Port Authority. The Port Authority is financially self supporting. The Bank
is currently helping finance the expansion of the port of Douala.
27.       Cameroon Airlines (CAMAIR) provides domestic services between
Douala, Yaounde and 12 other domestic airports, and international services
between Douala, West and East Africa, and Europe.
Transport Planning
28.       The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning (MINEP), the Ministry
of Transport (MOT) and the Ministry of Equipment and Housing (MINEH) all con-
tribute in some degree to the planning of investments in the transport sector.
However, their limited staff is inadequate for making the more sophisticated
investment choices in the offing. Establishing transport priorities and
strengthening the planning effort is, therefore, a necessity. With the
assistance of the Bank, the Government has started to make a headway in this
regard. A Transport Planning and Coordination Unit (TPCU) has been created
within the Ministry of Transport and two economists are being recruited for
three years each under the Technical Assistance Project. One economist will
be seconded to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning to help ensure
coordination and integration of investment decisions in transport with closely
related sectors such as agriculture and forestry. The other economist has



- 11 -
been seconded to the Ministry of Transport to stimulate and coordinate the
work of the Transport Planning and Coordination Unit. An expatriate transport
economist, provided for two years under the Second Highway Project, is
assisting the Department of Highways (DH) in establishing basic principles of
road planning. As a next step the Government will set up and staff a Road
Planning Unit (RPU) within DH to help plan major road investments under the
Fourth Development Plan and assist in selecting roads to be rehabil:itated
under the proposed project (see para. 46). The Third Highway Project provides
the Transport Planning and Coordination Unit with another economist/ statisti-
cian for three years and four fellowships. Furthermore, at Government
request, the Bank has agreed to advise on the carrying out of an overall
transport sector study. The study would be undertaken by Cameroonian profes-
sionals and expatriate experts financed under ongoing transport projects, with
Bank staff providing technical assistance during field missions.
29.       The Fourth Development Plan aims at a transport investment of
about US$800 million (in 1976 constant prices) or 24 percent of the public
investment target. Compared to the actual transport investment during the
Third Development Plan, the current investment target is overly ambitious
and its achievement will largely depend on the availability of foreign
financing.
Transport Sector Management
30.       The Ministry of Transport (MOT), created in 1970, is responsible
for transport sector management, including (a) reviewing, coordinating and
screening transport investment proposals prepared by other ministries and
public agencies, (b) formulating transport policies, and (c) approving the
tariffs of REGIFERCAM, the National Port Authority and CAMAIR. In regard
to road transport, MOT's Department of Transport covers a variety of tasks
ranging from registering vehicles, issuing driving licenses, inspecting
vehicles, delivering transport licenses, preparing road transport legislation
and studying road transport costs. The Ministry of Equipment and Housing
(MINEH) is the main responsible agency for road infrastructure. Its Depart-
ment of Highways (DH) assumes the overall responsibility for planning, con-
structing and maintaining the road network. Within this Department, the
Division of New Works plans and builds roads, and the Division of Highway
Maintenance (DHM) maintains them. To carry out road maintenance operations,
DH rents the necessary equipment from the National Civil Engineering Equip-
ment Pool (NCEEP), an autonomous Government agency. NCEEP's rental rates,
which are approved by MINEH, originally included equipment amortization in
addition to maintenance and repair costs. Rental rates have not been raised
much since 1969, and are now about 40 percent below the level necessary to
provide adequate amortization of equipment. This has resulted in failure to
renew equipment, which is now worn out and needs to be replaced. To ensure
the regular renewal of road maintenance equipment NCEEP will open and main-
tain a special account to be funded by revenues from the lease of its equip-



- 12 -
ment. The provisions to this account will be determined on the basis of the
replacement cost and average life of the equipment (Section 4.02 (a) (i) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Some difficulties have arisen
between DH and NCEEP over the distribution of responsibilities. These
difficulties have increased with deterioration of existing and unavailability
of new equipment. MINEH is currently studying a reorganization of the agencies
dealing with road maintenance, including the alternative of merging DH and
NCEEP into a new agency responsible for the entire network. This could rein-
force the necessary coordination between DH and NCEEP and increase road main-
tenance efficiency. The Government has agreed to exchange views with the
Bank before undertaking any major reorganization of agencies dealing with road
maintenance (Section 4.03 (i) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In
practice, DH has concentrated its activities on paved, gravel and major earth
roads. Other earth roads and tracks are built and maintained by local authori-
ties, Government agencies, autonomous cooperatives and private companies. One
purpose of the Feeder Roads Project is to coordinate the activities of these
different groups by setting up a Central Feeder Roads Unit within the Division
of Highway Maintenance.
Road Transport
31.       On a country-wide basis, road transport is the dominant mode.  An
exception is the Douala-Yaounde corridor where the road carries only about
25 percent of the through traffic of goods. The road network comprises about
2,300 km of paved roads, 7,000 km of gravel roads, and 42,000 km of feeder
roads.
32.       So far the Government, partially with the assistance of the Bank
Group, has concentrated its effort in building and rehabilitating paved
roads. The completed First Highway Project (Loan No. 663/Credit No. 180-CM,
US$19.9 million, March 1970) included construction of the Ngaoundere-Garoua
road (246 km) and the Tiko-Victoria road (22 km) to paved standards and the
preinvestment studies for the improvement of Garoua-Mora (258 km) and Douala-
Pont de Nkam (161 km) roads. The Tiko-Victoria road was satisfactorily
completed in April 1973. The construction of the Ngaoundere-Garoua road
encountered technical difficulties (insufficient drainage) and was only
completed in 1975 after two years of delays and cost overruns that were
financed by the Government and a supplementary Bank financing. As explained
in the Project Performance Audit Report (No. 1574, April 29, 1977) part of the
above mentioned delays was also attributable to poor coordination between the
various Government agencies that were sharing the responsibility for imple-
menting the various components of the project. The Audit Report therefore
recommended close monitoring of road conditions and careful maintenance of the
road, plus a better coordination of transport activities to facilitate direct
communications. The project also illustrated the need for better Government
procurement procedures. These experiences have been absorbed by the Bank and
the Government, and improvements have been made on the occasion of follow-up
projects. The ongoing Second and Third Highway Projects both also include
construction of roads to paved standards. In addition, the Bank finances
a Feeder Roads Project that includes a four-year construction program for
2,200 km of feeder roads. Although there has been a great deal of effort to



- 13 -
build and rehabilitate paved roads, the overall condition of the road net-
work somewhat deteriorated because of low initial construction standards,
increasing traffic and most particularly because of insufficient maintenance.
Unpaved roads, which account for 97 percent of the network length, are fre-
quently impassable during the rainy season. In the dry season, corrugated
and stony road surfaces and deep potholes cause excessive wear to vehicles.
As a result, trucking costs are high. The Government has therefore decided
to take the necessary measures to improve road maintenance and the bulk of
the effort will come under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The need to improve road maintenance was identified in the early
1970s during the preparation of the Second Highway Project. That project
included financing for an overall study to define a five-year road maintenance
program which was expected to constitute the basis of the maintenance com-
ponent of the Third Highway Project. However, the execution of the study by
consultants was very slow since collecting the necessary data in the field
proved to be more difficult than anticipated. There was also a difference of
views between the Government and the Bank as to the adequacy of the size of
the program recommended by the consultants. Although there were conflicting
views within the Government it was generally desired to carry out a larger
program than the Bank believed possible with the technical and financial
resources available. The road maintenance and rehabilitation components of
the proposed project appear to be a maximum that the Government can carry out
by force account in the short term. Should additional financial resources
become available for road maintenance during project execution, the Government
has agreed to review, in consultation with the Bank, its overall maintenance
program in order to determine how the additional funds may best be utilized
in combination with the available administrative and manpower resources. An
appraisal mission visited Cameroon in April 1978 making use of the consul-
tants' technical inputs but without the benefit of their report, the final
draft of which became available only in May 1978. A follow-up post-appraisal
mission also visited Cameroon in October 1978. Negotiations were held from
April 26 to May 1, 1979 in Washington with a delegation from Cameroon led by
H.E. Benoit Bindzi, Ambassador of Cameroon in Washington. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled Fourth Highway Project - Cameroon (No. 2225-CM) dated
May 18, 1979, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A
timetable of key events is presented in Annex III of this report.
Project Objectives and Description
34.       The major goal of the proposed project is to improve the Govern-
ment's capacity to maintain roads by strengthening the Department of Highways
and the National Civil Engineering Equipment Pool's operations, improving
training and ensuring sufficient budgetary allocations for road maintenance.
A primary objective is therefore institution building. Other objectives are
to promote the domestic contracting industry, control vehicle loads and
improve road planning.



- 14 -
35.       With these objectives in mind, the proposed project will consist
of:
(a) a three-year training program for the Department of Highway's
and the National Civil Engineering Equipment Pool's maintenance
staff;
(b) a four-year program of routine maintenance and minor repairs
of about 16,900 km of roads, and rehabilitation of about
1,350 km of unpaved roads, by force account, including
provision of road maintenance and workshop equipment;
(c) rehabilitation of about 340 km of unpaved roads by domestic
contractors with technical assistance;
(d) provision of two weighing stations;
(e) setting up of a Road Planning Unit within the Department
of Highways; and,
(f) completion of an ongoing study of the economic feasibility
and detailed engineering of the Douala - Yaounde road and
preinvestment studies of about 500 km of forestry access
roads.
Project Implementation
36.       The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning would have overall
responsibility for project implementation. Physical implementation would be
carried out by the Ministry of Equipment and Housing through its Department of
Highways, except for the purchase of major road and workshop equipment, major
repair of road equipment, and advanced training for mechanics and operators,
which would be carried out by the National Civil Engineering Equipment
Pool, and for technical assistance to domestic contractors, which would be
carried out by the National Center for Assistance to Small- and Medium-Size
Enterprises.
37.       The proposed project would take five years to complete and would
start with the training program for road maintenance staff, which would last
three years and be in three phases. Staff trained during the first year would
start road maintenance operations with new equipment at the beginning of the
second year and this would be repeated with staff trained during the second
and third years.
38.       The Government will designate a qualified and experienced project
coordinator who will prepare quarterly reports on projects implementation
and a project completion report (Section 3.04 (d) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Training Program
39.       The training program would concentrate on retraining most existing
employees and training new employees to supply them with the skills needed to
carry out road maintenance and rehabilitation. This training would be mainly
carried out by a Training Production Brigade (TPB) staffed with a road engi-
neer, a chief operator, and a chief mechanic as technical assistance experts.
Government has agreed to designate the counterparts to the expatriate experts.
This TPB will be aided by a small DH Training Center with a total possible
throughput of about 600 trainees in three years. DH Training Center would
be staffed with a head and an administrative/accounting specialist and two
road supervisors, a chief mechanic, and a chief operator as instructors. All
training activities would be coordinated by an expatriate training advisor.
Assurances have been obtained regarding the arrangements for staffing training
facilities and for training of staff and instructors (Section 3.01(b) and
3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
40.       The purpose of the road maintenance and rehabilitation program
is to keep the road network passable through routine maintenance and minor
repairs and to start rehabilitation of the unpaved network. Routine main-
tenance on paved and unpaved roads will be done by force account using
mechanical and manual units. In addition, minor repair units will carry out
urgent repairs, improve drainage, and carry out spot regravelling on the worst
sections of unpaved roads. The Government traditionally uses highly capital-
intensive methods for road construction and maintenance. A first attempt to
use a different mix of capital and labor for the construction of low traffic
roads is being undertaken in West Cameroon, where an experiment in feeder
road improvement using labor-intensive and intermediate technology is being
carried out under the Feeder Roads Project. Under the proposed pro;ject, the
Government would introduce different mixes of labor and equipment for road
maintenance on the basis of recommendations made by consultants in the road
maintenance study. A large number of manual units (172) will be set up, and
minor repair units, using light equipment, will be created.
41.       Rehabilitation by force account would be carried out by nine brigades
each of which would rehabilitate about 50 km of unpaved roads per year. The
roads to be rehabilitated will be selected annually and this yearly work
program will be prepared by DHM with the assistance of provincial engineers
and the new Road Planning Unit. Not later than three months before the
beginning of the works, the Government would submit the proposed work program
to the Bank Group for review and approval (Section 3.01, (b) (ii) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
42.       The road maintenance and rehabilitation program would be implemented
in four years and in three phases. The program fits well into DH's current
organization, in which subdivisions carry out operations under the close
supervision of Provincial Offices, with the Division of Highway Maintenance
responsible for the allocation of resources and control of execution. To



- 16 -
speed up disbursements, a Government-financed revolving fund would be created
in each Provincial Office to be used for some operating expenditures of the
rehabilitation brigades. In view of the substantial financial, administrative
and manpower resources required on the part of the Government to carry out the
road maintenance and rehabilitation program, the equipment needed therefor
should be procured in three successive phases. Ordering equipment for the
second and third phase would be contingent upon satisfactory performance of
units and brigades equipped under the previous phases and upon adequate road
maintenance funding by the Government (para. 4 of Schedule 3 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
43.       To help carry out the maintenance and rehabilitation program, the
proposed project would provide 216 man-months of technical assistance includ-
ing: (i) a road engineer and mission leader to assist DH in carrying out the
program and in preparing a follow-up program; (ii) an organization/accounting
expert to assist DH in setting up a mechanism for preparing detailed work pro-
grams and reports on maintenance output; (iii) a procurement advisor to assist
NCEEP with the ordering and delivery of new equipment; (iv) a mechanical
engineer to assist NCEEP's workshop heads in setting up new workshop equipment
and training staff on the job; (v) an equipment specialist to assist NCEEP in
setting up mobile repair units and to help assure proper maintenance of new
equipment in the field; and (vi) a spare parts management specialist to
strengthen NCEEP's methods for procuring and "stocking" spare parts.
Promotion of the Small- and Medium-Scale Domestic Civil Works Contractors
(SMDCWC)
44.       The proposed project would constitute a first step toward promoting
SMDCWC who would be given an opportunity to rehabilitate about 340 km of
unpaved roads. The proposed project would also provide 78 man-months of
technical assistance comprising (i) an administrative expert to assist DH in
defining measures to promote the SMDCWC; (ii) an advisor to contractors that
would be assigned to the National Center for Small- and Medium-Size Enter-
prises; and (iii) a road engineer to assist DH in defining and supervising
the rehabilitation works to be carried out by the SMDCWC under the proposed
project. There is an ample market for domestic contractors and for an ex-
panded program employing them if these first steps are promising.
Weighing Stations
45.       Two weighing stations would be set up; one at the outskirts of
Douala (to control traffic on the Douala-Bafoussam axis) and one at the exit
of the railhead at Ngaoundere (to control traffic with northern Cameroon and
Chad).
Setting up of a Road Planning Unit
46.       Not later than December 31, 1979, the Government would set up a Road
Planning Unit (RPU), which will be staffed by one economist or statistician in
charge of the unit and two technicians (Section 3.07 of the draft Development



- 17 -
Credit Agreement). In addition, the proposed project would include three
years of technical assistance by a transport economist. The provision of
technical assistance to RPU would begin when the key staff of the office have
been appointed.
PreinvestmevLt Studies
47.       This item includes completion of the ongoing study currently being
carried out under Government financing for construction of the Douala-Yaounde
road, and 500 'Km of studies for forestry evacuation roads. A reconnaissance
study of forestry roads has been carried out by consultants under the Second
Highway Project in 1978. This study is based on the current and potential
producLion of forestry products by major regions.  After selection by the
Government of about 500 km of roads acceptable to the Bank, the RPU will
prepare a feasibility study for their improvement.  About 250 km of roads with
the highest return will then be selected. Consultants will carry out detailed
engineering on these roads under terms of reference approved by the Bank.
Cost Estimates and Financing
48.       The total capital cost of the project, including taxes and duties,
is estimated at US$83 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$48
million. Local costs are estimated at US$17 million and taxes and' duties
amount to about US$18 million. The proposed Bank loan (US$38 million) and
IDA credit (US$10 million) amounting to US$48 million would finance 100
percent of the foreign exchange component of the project costs equivalent to
74 percent of the total project costs net of taxes and duties. The Govern-
ment's contribution of US$35 million would finance all local costs including
US$18 million of taxes and duties. The costs estimates of road and workshop
training and weighing equipment are based on recent suppliers' quotations.
The average rehabilitation costs, net of taxes, of unpaved roads is estimated
at US$13,200 per km for works carried out by force account and at US$15,400
per km for works carried out by contractors. Cost estimates for building
construction and infrastructure works for weighing stations are based on bids
recently received in Cameroon for similar works. Costs for technical assist-
ance were estimated on the basis of current costs for consulting services in
West Africa with an average billing rate, net of taxes, estimated at about
US$5,900 per man-month plus reimbursable expenses of US$2,200. Physical
contingencies amounting to 10 percent of the road equipment base cost and
price contingencies amounting to 27 percent of the total base cost were
added.
Recurrent Costs
49.       In addition to its contribution to the financing of the capital
costs of the proposed project, the Government would allocate enough funds for
the full maintenance of the classified network during project execution and in
particular for periodic maintenance of paved roads which has first priority
since it postpones the need for premature reconstruction. It will be carried
out, to a large extent, by contractors. The total annual costs of the routine
maintenance, minor repairs and periodic maintenance are estimated at US$14.6



- 18 -
million, US$1.8 million and US$8.5 million respectively in 1979 prices to
reach a satisfactory level. However, the present budget allocation for FY78
was only US$13 million which would hardly cover expenditures for routine
maintenance, and would leave no funds for periodic maintenance and minor
repairs. For FY79, the Government has substantially increased the road
maintenance budget to US$15.6 million plus US$2.5 million specifically ear-
marked for periodic maintenance of paved roads. If we assume the start of
operations in three phases at the beginning of FYs 1982, 1983 and 1984 respec-
tively, the budget allocation for road maintenance should be increased (in
1979 prices) from US$20.6 million in FY80 to US$24.9 million in FY84. The
above requirement would represent, in FY84, 3.8 percent of the national
budget, a target already exceeded by countries like Ivory Coast and Niger.
The Government has agreed to finance the above budgetary allocations and the
operating costs of the nine rehabilitation brigades after project completion
(Section 4.02 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government
has also agreed to submit to the Bank, for review and comment, not later than
April 30 of each year until project completion, the draft maintenance budget
for the following fiscal year (Section 4.02 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
50.       The road maintenance and rehabilitation equipment and the workshop,
training and weighing equipment, amounting to about US$41 million including
taxes and contingencies, will be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Contracts for items
costing less than US$50,000 and not exceeding a cumulative total of US$1
million may be procured following local competitive bidding procedures accept-
able to the Bank. Domestically manufactured goods will be allowed a preference
of 15 percent or the level of applicable duty, whichever is less, when com-
paring domestic bids with those of foreign manufacturers. Materials (US$3.2
million), fuel and lubricants (US$4.1 million), and spare parts (US$4.9
million) for operating the road rehabilitation brigades will be procured
locally on the basis of competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Road rehabilitation by contractors (US$8.2 million), infrastructure works for
the weighing stations (US$1.7 million) and building construction (US$0.3
million) which are small, scattered and unattractive to foreign contractors
will be procured following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Prospective bidders will have to be prequalified. The study of
the Douala-Yaounde road will continue to be carried out by consultants Gauff
(Federal Republic of Germany) according to terms of reference and under
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Technical assistance and forestry
evacuation road studies will be carried out by consultants whose terms and
conditions of employment, qualifications and experience shall be acceptable
to the Bank.
51.       The proceeds of the IDA credit and Bank loan would be disbursed
against:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign cost of imported road mainte-
nance and rehabilitation, workshop, training and weighing
equipment and 63 percent of the local cost of these items
if procured locally: US$24 million;



- 19 -
(b) 63 percent of the total costs of materials, fuel and
lubricants, and spare parts for the rehabilitation
brigades (representing the estimated foreign exchange
component): US$6.8 million;
(c) 55 percent of the total cost of building construction and
road rehabilitation by contractors, and infrastructure
works for the weighing stations (representing the estimated
foreign exchange component): US$5.1 million; and,
(d) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of technical
assistance, fellowships and preinvestment studies: US$6.7
million.
An amount of US$5.4 million would remain unallocated. Disbursements would
be fully documented, except for those under (b), where disbursements would be
made against a certified statement of expenditures for which the documentation
will be retained by DR. These operating costs would be reflected in separate
accounts which would be audited by the General State Inspectorate (IGERA) or
any other independent auditors acceptable to the Government and the Bank
(Section 4.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Retroactive
financing by the Bank to a maximum of US$0.3 million would be provided in
order to ensure continuity of the ongoing study of the Douala-Yaounde road
after March 31, 1979.
Benefits and Risks
Economic Rate of Return
52.       Substantial benefits would accrue to road users in the form of lower
transport costs which would subsequently be passed on to producers and con-
sumers as avoided tariff increases in view of the keen competition between
transporters. The economic rates of return of the routine maintenance program
are estimated to be 105 percent for paved roads, the cost of which is US$2.5
million, and 185 percent for unpaved roads, the cost of which is US$16 mil-
lion. Such high rates of return are not uncommon for maintenance projects and
reflect the initial poor state of the road and the heavy traffic. The minor
repairs program, the cost of which is US$3 million, would yield an estimated
rate of return of 35 percent. The rehabilitation works of unpaved roads by
force account, the cost of which is US$26.6 million, were estimated to result
in a rate of return of 40 percent. The rehabilitation of 340 km by domestic
contractors, the cost of which is US$9 million, was estimated to have a 46
percent rate of return. The somewhat higher return for the rehabilitation
works than for the minor repair works reflects the four year additional
economic life of the rehabilitation works as well as the high traffic volume
on the roads selected for rehabilitation.
53.       The average economic rate of return on these components, which
account for 80 percent of total project costs, is 82 percent corresponding
to a benefit/cost ratio of 3.0:1 discounted at 12 percent. In addition
the project is expected to yield a number of benefits whose value cannot be



- 20 -
quantified. The proposed project would make a start in promoting domestic
contractors to carry out public works. As they gain experience in public
works, they are likely to form joint ventures with expatriate contractors to
bid for major public works contracts.
54.       Installing weighing stations on trunk roads would enable the Govern-
ment to enforce load limitations, and attempt to prevent the common practice
of truck overloading. The benefits from this investment would accrue to
taxpayers as well as the Government in the form of avoidance of premature
expenditures for rehabilitation of main roads.
55.       The creation of a Road Planning Unit within the DH would be a major
step in establishing a balanced program of road maintenance, rehabilitation
and construction in accordance with the requirements of the transport sector
and with overall development needs. This unit would be established at a
critical time when major investments in roads are to be evaluated, e.g.,
the Douala-Yaounde and Yaounde-Bafoussam roads. The Bank financed transport
sector study (see para. 28) is tuned to provide a sound basis for planning for
these major projects.
Risks
56.       As the execution of the proposed project would be phased in three
stages (para. 42) in line with the absorptive capacity of the executing
agencies, no unusual risks are anticipated in the physical implementation
of the project. The risks of shortfalls in local fundings that has often
impeded well designed road maintenance projects in the past is also limited
since only a minor increase in the road maintenance budget would be required
to cover the recurrent expenditures under the proposed project.
57.       A special project risk is the balance between the governmental
effort in implementing the proposed project and other projects in the highway
sector. The particular problem of trying to do too much too soon may well
arise if the Government decides to carry out a large road maintenance effort
outside of the proposed project under bilateral assistance. In this case
there is a risk of underutilization of equipment because of the limitation
of trained personnel and equipment servicing facilities. This problem has
been discussed at negotiations and an understanding has been reached with the
Government that should additional funds for road maintenance become available,
the Government would review, in consultation with the Bank, its overall main-
tenance program and means to carry it out.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements between the United
Republic of Cameroon and the Bank and the Association, the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
and Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 22, 1979



ANNEX I
-22-                                               Page I of 6
CUl1mW - SOCIL ENDICATOIE DATA  8=
RFRERNCE ROMPS (ADJUSTED AERGES
CMROCN                                                  L
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Of.)                                                 - MOST RIECU  ESTIATS)
TOTAL            475.4                                                   SAE          SANE     EIT SIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     156.4                                 MDST RCurT      GROGRAPEIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 A  ESTxKATE Ab       R8GION L    GROUP jd    GROUP a
GNP PER CAPITA (U5$)                 110.0        200.0    340.0            223.6       432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAltS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     55.0        91.0      104.0            86.7      251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPUIATION, MID-YEAR
OMILLIONS)                         5.5         6.8        7.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9 /f      20.5      28.5             13.6       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. XM.                       12.0         14.0      16.0            18.4        42.7        50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     36.0        44.0       50.0            53.6        95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.0        43.0       42.7            44.4        44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                         56.0        54.0       53.8            52.7       52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.0          3.0       3.5             2.8         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8          2.1       1.9             2.6         2.7         2.5
URBAN                               *-          6.1       7.6             5.8         8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.5         42.1      40.4            46.9        42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     28.0         23.9      22.0            20.6        12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.3 A2       2.7       2.7             3.1         3.2         Z.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOlEN)    ..          ..         ..             2.5        14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             70.4        100.0      98.2            94.2       104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRIEMNTS)                   96.0        96.0      102.0            90.1        99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          59.0         59.0      59.3            55.2        56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        23.0 A    16.5            17.1        17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..          ..        ..               ..        7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIPF EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9         41.0      41.0            43.7        53.3        57.2
INFANT MDRTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              *-          *-     142.0 /i         138.4       82.5        53,9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         32.0        *-            22.4        31.1        56.8
URBAN                               ..         77.0        ..            66.3        68.5        79.0
RURAL                                ..        21.0        ..            10.4        18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..            23.9        37.5        30.9
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..             70.3       69.5        45.4
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             14.2       25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         40460.0 ef  25960.0   26220.0 ft       21757.5      9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10898.0 /f   2470.0    2270.0 /f         3473.8     2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            530.0 /f    310.0         ..            645.4      786.5       493.9
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..            172.9      278.4       229.6
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..          1292.6      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..             19.2       19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..       5.2              4.9         ..         5.2
URBAN                               ..           ..       5.1              5.0         ..         5.0
RURAL                               ..           ..       5.2              4.7         ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..         ..         2.0
URBAN                                                                                 2.3          1.5
RUJRAL                              ...                     ...                                    2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..       28.3         64.1
URBAN                               ...                     ..                          .         67.8
RURAL                                                                                10.3         34.1



- 23-                                              ANNEX I
PaRe 2 of 6
TAILS 3A,
CAmEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A ERAGES
CAMEROON                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 65.0        107.0     111.0             52.1       75.8        99.8
FEMALE               43.0         91.0      97.0             37.6       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         9.0       12.0              8.0       17.7         33.8
PEMALE                 1.0         5.0       8.0              5.0        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 23.0         23.0       23.0              7.2        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..        48.0       51.0            43.2        34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                            ..        24.0       23.0            22.8        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..         12.0       6.0 L4          20.3       63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         6.0         ..              3.9        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0        36.0       96.0            40.1        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..              2.2       14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0 /h       3.0       3.0              3.9       16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1           ..        1.0              1.2        1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2800.0      3300.0    3600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   42.6        42.4       41.9            32.6        28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88.0        82.0       79.4            73.3        54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.6         6.0        6.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.0        49.4       48.0             42.0       37.8         33.8
MALE                                 59.6         57.9      56.6             54.8       50.3         48.1
FEMALE                               42.8         41.2      39.6             27.3       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.2       1.2              1.2        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             25.7       19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..        ..            55.1        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..              5.8        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             14.5       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            108.8      155.9        191.9
RURAL                                *-           *-      70.0             74.1       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                .-           *-     112.0            124.4      143.7        319.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      85.0             59.6       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      15.0             26.8       22.9         19.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      40.0             47.6       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric maeans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /e  Intermediate
Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962, including ex-South Cameroons under British Administra-
tion;  /LA  West Cameroon only;   /h   1964-1966;  Li  1972;  Li  1971.
September, 1978



- 24 -                                                               ANIIX I
Page 3 of 6
KEY TO COUNTRIES BY REGION AND INCOME C-ROUO/a
Region!/locae Group                Loo Ice,/bLw   Middle                                          Int-ediate Middl                       Upper Middle           'igh Tno/f                    Countrie
T Inc~rTo /                                                           -use/                                          ill reporter
lenin                   Naleeli            Angola                   rhare                                   03jibout i                  Ga on
Rurundi                 N-li               Boew=ane                  Ivory GosE                             Reunion
Central African Ep.  Mo-bique              C-wero.n Bauririue
Chud                    Niger              Cape Verde               Ngeibbi
Co_noros                Rwnda              Congo, P.R.               Seychelles
Ethiopia                Siterr  Leone      Equatorial Glrie-
AFRICA SOUTH          Gunbia, The              So -alia          Liberia
OF SAhAP\             Guinea                   Tanzania          Meuritania
C lcea-Bis..u           Toga              Nigeria
Kenya                  IgaUde             Rhodesia
-Lestho                 upper Volta        Sso Tone & Principe
Madagascar .aire                           Senega
Swaet ilaed
Zo=b ia
Egypt                                      Maroco.                   Algerie                                gahr-in                    Israel                      euEi t
tORTE AFRICA          Veno_  AR.                                                           Jord-n                                  Iran                       Oran                        Libya
ARC NIDDLE            C-ee     I P.0.R.                                                     yrian A,R.                             IraqQtr
EAST                                                                                       TaPiniA                                 Lebanon                                                Saudi Ar-bia
Mired drab Rir.
Afghanist.a             Nald bee
SOUTH ASIA            Baland                   P kistan
Bura-                   Sri Lanka
Indi
Canbodia                                  New Hebrtida              Chi.., Rep. of                          FiJi                       AnErio-n  Se-a
Indonesia                                 Papas Neu Guinea          Gilb-rt Islands                         Hong Kong                  Brinel
EA'T ASIA             Lo P. D. R.                                Philippines               Kore, Rep. of                                                      Frenh Polynasia
Solonon Islands                           Thailnd                   Maca                                                               Cu.n
Viert NRa                                  Tonga                    Malaysia                                                           Ne- CGedona-
Western Sanaa             Trust Territoty of the Pacific                                    Stagapore
Mati                                       Bolivia                   tnrigua           G-tenls              Ar-ntine                   Bahts
EI  Salvador             Bglie-             Jaicsa Barhbds                                    ermuda
Grende                   Chile                  NeIo             Boseil                     C-olon
LATIN AMERICA                                                   CGy .na                   CGoLnha            Nirgu                 frenth Cuiana              Ma.nique
AND CARIBBEAN                                                    Bond.u..                  Cuata Micu        Per..ugy              Cu-deloup.                 Vene. uel
St. Vi.cerrlt Doxtice                       peS-                 NRtherl- da Antilles       virgin Islada (IUS.)
DlInic-a  Rep.   Su. Kitts--milt    P'-S
Ecuador           Sc Lucia             Puerto Rico
BuriusEm
Trinidad A Tobago
Iraguav
Turkey                                 Cyprus                     Ch nnel  Ialend.
Isl  of Nan                Feeree Islands
ETUROPE                                                                                                                            KsItal                     GibrIata
portugal                      r esr
Y.8o l1Yi.                 Sp in
Australia         Fi`iand                       Italy               Nur-y                    Mniled St.aes
IRDGSTRIALIZED        Au-tria           France                        Japan                South AfhirE
COUNTRIES             Belgian           Ge-many Fed. Rep. of           Lune.ubourg         Sweden
Caneda            Iceland                       Nethetlands         Switrerlend
Deesark           Ireland                       tee fasland         United Kinadot
Glhanbi           TarD-n. Rep.               USSR
Rulgaria          Rurgary
CENTRALLY PLANNED    China PF.R. af    K-rD L. Rep, af
tGINOMIES             Cbha              Mngoglia
Ce.chna Iavakia   Puland
/a  7aued  n 1976 GNP pR  cpita in 1976 U dollrs
7   $028G or Sees per cpita.
/c  $281-550 per capit.
'd S551-1135 perc -pita.
/n  51136-2500 per capita                                                                                                                                                                               EPOES
'f  ov 2r IlBEE por capit



- 25 -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF COCIASL INDICATORS
l uOs:  although the data are drawn from sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted that they may not be inter-
nationatv cooparable because of the lack of standardieed dtfinitions and concepts used by different countries in collecting the data.   Th. dat  are., nonetheless,
useful to de.nriba orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characterize certain major differences between c-ontrie.
lhoe odioastd grsov .veroess for each indicator are pspulatiuo-wsighted geonetric means, eocluding the eetreem  values of tho indicator and the nest
populted c.ountry in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on avaIlability of data sod is rot uniform,   Due to lack of data,
-.otp a ertges for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, incmte distribution and poverty are
sirrpl  popolAtion-wetghted feonetric moons without the excluaion of extreme vaises
LAND ARIA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Iotal surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective somber of hospital beda
Agricultuacl - Mcot rot.nt estimate of agricultural area used tomporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or pernanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lit  fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care.are notincluded. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    ce roter not  permau ently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital hod - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the sumber of beds.
(coal ard lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and gao-
th,omal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average sise of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hbld vary.
tiont  different definitions of urban aresa may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of persons per room  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  s. kr. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectarse)                      unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urb-n, and rural -
Per sq. k. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired  (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of a11 agea
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 yearsa but adjusted for
Crude birth rute  (per thousand) - A=nual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal adu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate                        above the official school age.
Crude death rots (per thousand) - Annual dsaths per thousand of  id-                      Secondary school - total. and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic  averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross rsproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondenes -n-ursa are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility  rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - VocatLonal institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            lude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Faily plannine - acceptors. enu-l (thousands) - Annual number of                            or as deportmonts of esoord-ry institution..
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
plunming program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the torre-
Facily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
msrried women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devicrs to a11 married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AN   U 'TRITtION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Cndex of food oroduction par capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cnre
capita uncoal production of a11 food co-modities,                                      seating less than eight persona; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per c-pita oupoly of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehicles.
anergy equivalent of met food supplies avilable in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand  opuulation) - All types of receivers for radio
per day   Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports 1ess                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; ecludes unlicensed
omports, cod changes in stock.  Net supplies exclade animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quontities used in food processing, and leases in distribution.   Re-                  effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quiromects were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to gener-A
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
coet for waste at household level,                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requiranents for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general newn.  It is considered to
a mininue allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least four tiDss a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These staodards are lower than those of 75 grame of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the vnrld, proposed by                       units.
FAQ in the Third World Food Survey,
Per capita protein oupply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor for-e (thousands) - Economically attire persons, including armed
Child (ages I-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces end unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tiens in various countries are not comparable.
Famale (Percent) - Female labor force as percentage o,f total labor force.
HiALTfH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life ospectanyv at birth  (years) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor forte in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant =ortality rate (Per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
A_cces  tO safe water (Percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting age-tom
Sumter of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      structure of the popslation, dnd long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or sntreated but                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to
urcontamiated water such as that from protected bureholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
an urbu  are    n public f-outai  or standpast located not sore                     INCOME DISTRISUTION
then 200 meters fror a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
.o.abln 000000 of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
Imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                       of householdn.
nre,.d a diopraportiomnte part of the day in fetching the family's
-ose  ' ords.                                                                        POVERCY TARGET GROUPn
Access_ to ecretr  disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural   -umber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by emcreta                        Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
dispcsal us percentages of their rospective populations.    Ecreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
{disposal nay include the collection snd disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treotoont, of human ..  creta and waste-water by water-borne systems                   Estimated relative poverty intone level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
t-o use of pit privies and similar installations.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
?fiyLonon pro physician - Population divided by number of practicing                       per capita personal income of the country.
vi h"noinn qualified from a medical school at university level.                        Estimated population below  overtv income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Poruati-__e  nurtiog   cen- Population divided by tumbhr of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who are  ither "absolute poor" or
pt...tic-ne  'tu  and fe=alo graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                       "relative poor" whichever is greater.
anointart ! rycoon.                                                                                                         r
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis aod Projections Department



- 26-                                                   ANNX I
Page 5 of6
ECONMO gmepmmDATA
(Amute  n M I  lo    OfU. S. doll.ars)
Actua      _Pro2ec a,T_d                           1966.   19 71-   19 76 -   1978 -   167    1978    195'
1975  1978  1951    1983 ~~~~=19.   197        91q1     1983        ~      ~      __
NATIONMAL ACCO00TS
3-ear Average at lq~1974/197 Prces & Ex~,chane Rates   ~ i;eree.        Growth Rates           As Percent of GDy
,ross Domestic Product           1,506.9   2,3.    ,1.           ,43.   3O9         ,i40         6.04  3                  8      101.3   95.9    102.6
3aonc from Terms of Trade (...)    ..6                           +1085     -4  0    -8.1   11.0   -33.                             -1.3    4.U1    -2.6
Gross Tonm'stic Inccme            1,48.    2,1.    ,1.           ,SE        Z39320              .       .        5.9     4.1          U 
:mp,rt (1ad.. :TFS)                408.5      644.3    663.9      910.3    981.6  1,055.8    6.7       1.3       5.2     2.1        33.5   34.3     32.1
Exrorts      (imnort capacity)    .40Q.e   __Z3.3      657,.5     811.2    853.5    920.4    7.4       2.2       5.1     1.5        30.2   30.6     28.0
Resou~rce Gap                      -vi.7       90.7        .    --9 -        O.lTr   In-53.     .       .                             7 .3.          4.1
Cnsumptizrm Expenditures        1,253.9   1,,729.6  1,809.6   2,168.1  2,450.3  2,724.8    8.7        1.7       4.9     4.5       84.3   81.8      82.9
investment   "  (incl. stocks)    184.3       176.2    4o8.1      582.7    681.7    698.1      .9      2.0     10.2      2.8       22.4   21.9      21.2
Domestic Savings                   233.3      285.3    4o1.6      483.3    553.7    562.7    6.3       5.7     11.).     2.1       15.7   16.2      17.1
National Savings                    17'7.7    242.0    337.5      417.7    473.2    469.4    7.2       5.1      11.4     1.2        12.0   15~.8    14.3
.    _RCANrTSE TPAIE                        Annual Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of Total
:Mmorts
Capital toods                     L0.8       89.1    144.8      358.0    336.6    464.4   16.9    20.2       1.2.8     8.8       21.7   38.6    3,4.4
ntr.ermedia-e goods (%-"fusels)    87.3     133.6    25,7.2     343.4    510.1.   643.9    8.9    12-.8      24.8    13.4        46.4   37.1.     47.7
'.ie.,s and related materials      8.        152        28       81.3       -        -     12.9    28.7        .                  4.4    8.8        -
of -which:  Petroleum            8.3       18.2     52.8       81.3       -              12.9    28.7         .       .         4.4    8.8        -
Ccsrcingoods                51.6       Q       1 1.       1434.5    12.      241.1   12.2      8.5     14.8    10.9        27.4    5.5      17.9
Total. Merds. 1'1ports (cif)     T 0 -53023    566.4    1926t .2,04675  -1,342.    10.0   1.4.3              13.0    10.0       100.0  100.0    i7
Excorts
Prinary products ~=1. fuels'    143.6       199.9    458.0      787.8    382.5  1,105.7    6-.8    1.6.7     12.0    10.1         90.8   96.8     94.5
Fuels ani related materials         -         -         -                   7.9      7.6      .                 .       ..                 .         .6
0: -which:  Petroleum,           -          -                            1  .3     7.6      .                                                      6
Marufac lured roojis               14.6      20.9      22.6      251.7     41.2     57.1    7.4    2-2.2     16.7    17.3         9.2    3.2       4.9
Total Merch. Exoorts (fob)        lSa.73-   3720.8 T       4d.o -M.              TITT       6.9    16.9      12.5      7.7        ~      ~       i.
Tourism and Border Traae
Merohsan dise Traice indices                  Average 1974/75   100
Ex,ort Price index                47.-       57.1    100.0      169.6    15,5.7    173.9    9.8    10.0      10.0       .31
Import Price index                  3.       58.9    100.0      134.2    165.6     10.      7.0    15.1       9.0     7.2
Terms of Trade Index              01.9       97.0    100.0      326.4     94.0      91.5    1.6    -1.5         .9   -6.7
Exports Vol.ume 'ndex             78.2       93.6   1.00.0      104.3    143.2    162.2    4.1       2.4      7.8     8.s,
V:ALUE ADDED BY SECTOR            Annual Data at lo74/75 Prices ard Exchange 3Ates             Average Annual Growth Riates       As Percent of Total
~~r~oultore    522.4     659.7    733.9      821.8    98~~~~~~~~~~4.9  1,047.7    5.5  3.6  5.5      .9        34.7   32.4     31.1
Industry' and Mir-ing/           262.1      374.8    414.8     518.9    683.2   7r67.6   10.4       3.1       9.6     8.2        17.4   20.5      22.3
Service                         -722.4     9.0.2~.  1,063.s   i.L8,  i-1.  1-4,%.o    8.2          1.6       5.6     5.4        47.;  47.2       44.:
Total-                          ,0.    2,032.5  2,21.2.2   2,539.2  3,059.4  3,3771.3    1.6         2.5      6.4     5.8      -15  I5100         5.
__________                                                                                                                      As_Percent_of_GDP
(Central  Governmenlt,~--rrent prices and exchiange rates)1921e
Current Receipts                 129 0     212.9    365.9      565.2    836.0    ..         2.3    17.7      14.9     .        17.3     15.2      19.9
Currant Expenditures             129.8      185.0    32  .a     46.6    624.0o     .        7.3    16.4      10.1      .       15.1     14.7      15.2
Budgetary Savings                  -.5      24.9      37.5     107.6    212.0    .                 27.6      25.4     .        2.2       3.5       4.7
Other Pablic SectorZ              13.8       0.5      74.9     208.0    -26.0o     .         .        .        .      .                  6.2       2.3
Public Sector investment          69.3     1.20.6    205.5     484.8    573.2    i. 4.8    26.1              5,.7     .        9.8      15.6     16.3
US $ million
C,JRRST EX'PENSTTUPE DETAILS                  Actual        Prelim.   Est.    Proj.        rETAIL ON                              At 1974      P and ER
As 8 Total Cuarrent Exnend.             1967    19 2       19 7~    l9r     191           NVE0SECT POGRAMort   Pan    %of Total
tiduc ation                             14.4    1=         21.3     24.3       .          TETTPRRA(1'/77  - 98  /31)
Otter  ocial Services                     .7     6.9        8.8      9.1      .          Social Sectors                         453.2        20.1
Agricultuare                             s.6     3.7        4.1      4.7      .          Agriculture                             6.          16.2
Other Economic Services                 11.6     8.0        7.5      8.8      ..         industry and Minin.g                    is.9         3.8
.Adninistration and Defense             59.5    59.6       53.0     49.8      .          Power                                  330.5        14."
ttor                   6.34.1     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~       ..~~       Transport and communicationss          E584 8.1
lotal. Current Expenditures           100.0   100.0      100.0    100.0   100.0          Other                                  0i  0
__________________________________________________________________________ Total_ExpTotalurependitures                 100.0
SET7CE-ED OINDICATORS                             1960-      196 7-    1971-   1976-       FINANCING
(Calo jated from 3-Year averaged data)            1965       1971     1976    1981
Average -COR                                        ..       230        =4     3.61           putlic S.ctor Savings               6oo2.
Irrport Elasticity                                  ..        .1        .54     .5             Local borrowing                   295.0         10.1
.R&rginal Domestic Savings Rate                     ..         08      .23      .28           Foreign financin.g               1C
M.argirnal National Savings Rate                    .         .08       .14     .24           Total Fli:artcing                ZtSTT 3.4
Total SAploganen 2/                              va-Lae Added Per Worker 1    .      Prices & Exe. Fates),
__ _ _ __7_ _ _ __ _ _                                 f    T tl1 7    -           74In       W S   1lr       Percent    of   Averige   1.9   -
1~~'1  19~4     :19 71    197'      Growth Rate         19        19          19        19         OothRe
Agriculture                   e,tO      9,544       31.0      30.6        14.7              .
.nduastryl,35                           6,5        23.7      2-3.5         4.7              .
Service                    1.,.'.i9                 45.3      459                           .          .
Tctal                      232, YhO    292,370    100.0      100. 0        8.1              .
not appliosaile       n- nO  or negligible
nat available        .  less than halIf the
smallest urit shioem
~/including conistruction and publiC utilities
Yode rn sector tl
Fjloseo-or savi4ns,inldg stabilization fund surplus, less amor-zcation    public debt'.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
MU=Na   OF PrnSm    UtIAL A&URE  AD DfT
(aaonts in mnim. of U.S. 1601ae at cureont priceir)
Avg. kAnul
Actual                        Eatisatad       VPo lted                                                    lSwth Rate
3179'A3RY 3ALAtCE OF PAXMENTS
EVCM-3 (intl. 570S                     37.3        576.2       624.7       650.7        798.9         1,030.4    1,077.3      1,150.8    1,244.4      1,399.6     1,537.7        12.0
-ortn  '.tcl. NFS)                     422.0       514.8       703.1       792.0        925.5         1,161.5     1,192.0    1,340.6    1,385.1       1,6 39.0    1,7c3.7        Li.6
pes- ur.sa. 'X-M)                      Z-4O.        614    -4   -         -i42, _i26.6                -131.1      --v4.C7      .189.8     .177        -239.4       -261e.9
)L-   .t e-t 3 07e-6.2                -9.8        -U2.3       -i4.6       -25.0            -42.4       -4359      -56.3        -67.4       -73.2       -85.9        35.8
St.-;>  3 voor.', .2lnoe   ~-3.2       .45.5       -27.2       -30.2        -36.2           -39.9       -45.8       -52.7       -60.6       -69.7       -80.2        14.'
w-or--' -oittn                          -30.4      -41.4 A34 2             -30.4        -31.2           -36.8       -40.4       -44. _  .48.9 ;53.3                 -59.2         0.4 4
C:rmtroo3O  ecu (us)          12.9~      ~~ 6.5      12.8        25.3          20.6            30.6        33.6        37.0        40.7        43.5        46.6        11.3
9.-i-.rD-- t T--eont                     -7.5       15.2        24.5        34.5         37.9            43.8        71.0        77.5        93.0       100.0       10o.-        19.5
Cf:::r4 Zapital Grunts                   11.2       13.9        19.7        30.1         27.4            22.4        22.4        22.4        22.4        30.0        30.0          .5
Pcbl;c 'kIT Loans
ma a.lrseneoto                         69.3       50.3        73.0       138.9        211.1           23.3        ?34.6       317.1       249.4       385.2       389.8        13.6
.uer r ._nts                            -7.1     -11.8 3        3L        -200.        -28.3           -4 -.2      _6.2        -73.8       -79.3       -97.4      -105.6        26.2
Net Hi.b.ur . ernto                        %7                                              T.4 d 192- I 7                ' 24 a433         1T7V1       7377        7922          10.5
Itn-r "SLT Loans
au. .aensnt                            34.7        9.4        21.3        30.3                               ..                ..          ..
-F ra_. n___......                      -7.5       -8.0       .17.2       -13.2          ..              ..         .           ..          ..
Actual                    Istleted
T. --.al Pramnoas n.e.i.                -19.3      -39.5       -21.2       -3.4         -54.1                                                 IST       197 Vn                1S63
Ciar.ge in Net Re ns                     -.2        30.7       -5.5         4.8          -4.4                  AXD V28T S.                              3.        53         2E
38427c 1t3  Out.7  Z Isburtd  238.4    274.3    374.6    529.3         2,073.2
li:ic:ai  rants & Grant-like             41.9       4T.8        77.0        ..            ..           Dotreet no Public Dmbt         9.6      11.1      15.1      19.3         98.3
Repayoan  on Public Debt    15.0       14.0      20.7      21.7        105.6
-:::c '2.27 L5re                                                                         ..           Total Public Debt S.-io.    24.6        25.1      35.8      41.0        193.9
7.4R                                   25.7       34.1         1.0       34.3           *-           Other Dm8t S*rene (not)        ..        ..
Z7A                                    24.0        -          21.2       25.0           ..           Total Debt SDvce (rt)          ..        ..
ft-rr ltltilatorul                     16.3        -          10.8       30.8           ..          bon on 2r?ort maDnr        (I)
Sv- er,nta                             82.5       44.8        99.7       29.4
uppl.ern                                 .4         .9         7.1        7.6           ..           Publ1c Debt Skevie             4.6       4.1       5.4       5.9        12.4
Fi-ancial Mnonnuti-ot                   -        64.6        27.8       87.3           ..           Total Debt Srvice
Bonds                                    -         -            -         _             ..           75fDS-Direct Dbvet. Inc.
Public io.ane net             i          .                      -4      8.9 2 .. Amr" Ter_ of Pa  Dubt0.0
tow  tame acdZ law  ~ ~ ~ 148.          YW-          167.6      oit3 -T7                   Averqe Tame  of Public Debt
Actual Debt OCtetawtin on Dc. 31.76                        Dot. me % Prior Ter mMO        4.9       4.7       5.5       5.2         4.9
ruMAL ODM                                              PURcent                                           Aurt. *-  S Prior Tm  DOhD    7.6        5.9       7.5       5.3         5.9
4brld 3an                                         57.2                   10
IZZA   P7la                                                              12.b                        I RD Debt Oct. & Dimburmd       23.1      28.7      49.7      57.5       265.0
IgorW nts  190 67       36 0                             a  9 Public Debt Service    5.6       8.5      lo.4      1.1.4       12.7
toucnl r.                                         16.4                    3.1
piani.l Iotitutiun                               143.9                   27.9                        IMA Debt Out. & Di.bureed       30.1      34.1      49.9      67.8       le3.6
Suede                                                                      -                          I "5 S Public Debt o0D         12.6      12.4      13.3      12.8         8.9
Poblo. Debts o.o.i                                 9.5                    1.8                            a N    Public Debt Seremc     .7       1.2        .8       1.1         1.0
Total Public  ILT Debt                           52                     15
Other lILT Debts
Short-term Debt (di3b. only)
not applik-bl                                                  a staff _tlate
not avilable                                                   -   i or negligible
not avilable serty i                                          -  lee thin half the
but included in total                                             slest omit hown



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of April 30, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                               Amount
Credit                                                         (less cancellations)
Number     Year   Borrower       Purpose                    Bank   IDA /1  Undisbursed
Six Credits and seven Loans have been fully                 55.7     73.2        -
disbursed
161-CM    1969   Cameroon       Education I                         11.7       0.0 /2
320-CM    1972   Cameroon       Education II                         9.0       3.8
935-CM    1973   Cameroon       Roads II                   24.0                0.3
983-CM    1974   Cameroon       Livestock                  11.6                1.5
1039-CM    1974   Cameroon       Cocoa                       6.5                2.0
574-CM    1975   Cameroon       Niete Rubber Project                16.0       3.0
575-CM    1975   Cameroon       DFC - Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                  3.0       1.8
S4-CM    1976   REGIFERCAM   Railways                      2.3                0.8
1245-CM    1976   Cameroon       Education III              17.0               14.9
1321-CM    1976   NPAC           Second Douala Port         15.0                8.1
672-CM    1977   Cameroon       Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Develop.                     2.0       1.2
673-CM    1977   Cameroon       Technical Assistance                 4.5       4.0
723-CM    1977   Cameroon       Rural Devt. Fund                     7.0       6.7
1391T-CM   1977   Cameroon       Second SOCAPALM             7.0                5.5
1392-CM    1977   Cameroon       Second SOCAPALM            18.0               14.3
749-CM    1977   Cameroon       Feeder Roads                         6.5       5.9
1494-CM    1977   Cameroon       Feeder Roads                4.6                4.6
1508-CM    1977   Cameroon       Second CAMDEV              15.0               12.2
776-CM    1978   Cameroon       Zapi East Integrated
Agric.                             8.5       8.3
784-CM    1978   Cameroon       Western Highlands
Rural Develop.                    13.0      13.0
763-CM    1978   Cameroon       Second SEMRY Rice                   14.5       7.1
1512-CM    1978   Cameroon       Second SEMRY Rice          14.5               14.5
1515-CM    1978   Cameroon       Third Highway              16.5                9.0
TOTAL                                   207.7    168.9    142.5
of which has been repaid               8.7       5.3
TOTAL now outstanding                  199.0    163.6
Amount sold                     7.7
of which has been repaid    5.1        2.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and
IDA 1/                               196.4    163.6
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                        87.7     54.8    142.5
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Balance of $37,087.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of April 30, 1979)
Amount in US$ millions
Investment     Fiscal                  Type of
Number        Year    Obligor        Business             Loan    Equity   Total
311 CM          1975     Bata S.A.    Shoe Factory           -        0.38    0.38
335 CM          1977     SAFACAM       Rubber Plantation    -         0.81    0.81
430 CM          1979     SAFACAM       Rubber Plantation    -         0.40    0.40
Total gross commitments                                      -        1.59    1.59
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -           0.25    0.25
Total commitments now held by IFC                            -        1.34    1.34
Total undisbursed                                            -        0.25    0.25
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 320                Second Education Project:  US$9 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
All project-financed schools have been constructed except for the
adult vocational training center in Douala which is about 95 percent completed
and is expected to become fully operational by mid-1979. Recruitment of
technical assistance for the vocational training center is underway and all
specialists should be in post in mid-1979. To allow full execution of the
technical assistance component, an extension of the closing date from June 30,
1979 to December 31, 1981, is expected.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935  Second Highway Project:  US$24 million Credit of
September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date: December 20,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978; and US$24
million Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was satis-
factorily completed in December 1976, of the Figuil-Mora section (163 km)
of the Garoua-Mora road in July 1977, and of the Douala-Pont du Nkam road
(161 km) in July 1978. The road maintenance study and the reconnaissance
study of forest evacuation roads were completed in May and December 1978
respectively. Technical assistance is being provided to the Department of
Highways since April 1977. The project suffered from the 1973/74 world-wide
inflation, which nearly doubled its total cost. Consequently, the Government
agreed to postpone construction of the Garoua-Figuil road section (95 km).
A supplementary credit of US$15 million was approved in March 1976 to help
alleviate the burden imposed on the Government by the project's cost overrun.
Loan No. 983                Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of May 14,
1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Physical implementation is progressing satisfactorily although
delays in implementation as well as unanticipated price increases have led
to cost overruns. The tsetse-fly eradication campaign is expected to clear
about 500,000 of the originally planned total of 800,000 ha. The credit
scheme has exceeded the appraisal target of 150 loans, and the rate of
repayment is excellent. Slaughterhouse construction is nearing completion,
with operations foreseen for late 1979. Additional training of slaughter-
house managers is under consideration. The SODEPA ranches have become the
least succesful of the project components, in spite of completed physical
development of two of the ranches, and acceptable progress towards the
completion of the third. Lower than expected technical performance, as well
as delayed implementation and rising cattle costs have now cast serious doubt
on the continued financial viability of these ranches. Alternate means of
dealing with the financial situation are being analyzed in preparation for
discussions to be held with Government. A second livestock project, appraised
in February/March 1979, would help government expand the successful components
of this project.
Loan No. 1039               Cocoa Project:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30,(1981.
Farmers responded well to last year's price increase from CFAF 150
to CFAF 220 per kg for Grade I cacao. Government has this year, further
increased the price from CFAF 220 to CFAF 260 and production from the SODECAO
zone could reach 110-115,000 tons in the 1978/79 season. However, SODECAO's
management problems are still unresolved. A reorganization study has been
completed and the consultants' report is under review. Attempts are in
progress to recruit a new Managing Director for the Company.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 574                Niete Rubber Estate Project:  US$16 million Credit
of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 1,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
HEVECAM has now overcome initial difficulties and is well organized
to carry out its program. A cost overrun is expected due chiefly to a
combination of: (a) inflation greater than foreseen; (b) changes in the
method of land clearing; and (c) Government's desire to upgrade labor housing
standards and the number of professionals in training. Government, however,
increased its participation in the capital by CFAF 1.4 billion, in support of
the Project. A follow-up project was appraised in April 1979. A first phase
report on the Kribi master plan study has been received and the second phase
is underway.
Cr. No. 575                Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:  US$3
million Credit of July 1, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The line of credit is
almost fully committed and disbursements have started.
Ln. No. S-4                Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard Engineer-
ing Project: US$2.3 million Loan of June 25, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979.
The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the new Douala
Station has been completed. A preliminary design study for the Yaounde
locomotive running shed and rolling stock maintenance facilities will soon
be completed. The consulting services initially provided under the Second
Railway Project are being carried out but additional technical assistance will
still be needed to fully implement the recommendations of the consultants. As
planned, this engineering loan is to be refinanced under the Fourth Railway
Project which will be presented to the Board shortly.
Ln. No. 1245-T             Third Education Project:  US$17 million Third
Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
December 31, 1976; Closing Date: December 31.
1981.
Construction contracts for most project financed-institutions are
being signed. The lower secondary technical school in Douala is about 95
percent completed. Changes in Government plans for agricultural education
have held up contract award for the agricultural technician training institute
by about 18 months; however, its construction is expected to start in July
1979. Agricultural training experts financed by the project are in place;
work on curriculum design and the introduction of practical courses is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Preinvestment studies for a fourth education project
are underway.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1321                Second Douala Port Project:  US$15 million Loan
Cr. No. 657                 of September 24, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  June 15,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981; and US$10
million Credit of same date; Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction started in December 1976 and is proceeding reasonably
well. Proposals to incorporate facilities at the container berth to handle
increasing volumes of roll on roll off traffic have been accepted by donors.
Although latest cost estimates indicate a small overrun, this has been cov-
ered by pledge of additional financing from some of the other donors and
Government.
Cr. No. 672                 Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:  US$2
million Credit of February 28, 1977; Effectiveness
Date: August 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Results of the 1977 second season and the first 1978 cycle confirm
that the project is facing considerable problems related to soil fertility,
management systems, and rice yields. In addition to the critical field trial
program designed for 1978-80, high priority should be given to a land-use
suitability survey, to allocate land to various categories of development.
This survey would involve: (a) a pedologic survey for the 1,200 ha of
cleared land; (b) a topographic mapping of 40 ha; (c) a hydrologic survey to
identify potential water availability for the irrigation system under study;
and (d) development of a 30 ha experimental plot for irrigation trials.
Data and recommendations for a possible follow-up project can be expected
about April 1981; since project financing is assured only to the end of
1979, additional finance estimated at US$955,000 is required. This finance
is expected to be provided by Government.
Cr. No. 673                 Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit
of June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The recruitment of long-term advisory consultants is in process.
The senior agricultural economist and the agronomist have joined their posts
in the Ministry of Agriculture and the Association has approved their ini-
tial work program. Delays have occurred in the appointment of a financial
analyst in the Ministry of Agriculture but a candidate is now being selected.
Five short-term consultancies required for the preparation of bankable
projects in several sectors have also been approved. With the arrival of
the first experts in the field, it has become evident that a strengthening
of the Project's central coordination unit and a streamlining of certain
administrative procedures are required to allow the experts to work more
effectively and project implementation to proceed smoothly. These matters
have been thoroughly discussed with the Government and administrative
difficulties have lessened recently.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 723                Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The well improvement program is up-to-date while the other village
water supply components--boreholes and small dams construction--are behind
schedule, mainly caused by delays in the arrival of materials and equipment.
All project staff are in place; however, local personnel costs are consider-
ably higher than expected. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials
through ICB is on schedule. A hand-pump test program is underway to help
decide on the type to be bought for equipping wells and boreholes. The Rural
Engineering Service garage and workshop have been successfully reorganized.
SEMRY is expected to finalize the feasibility study for the bottomland
development by June 1979. About 100 loans have been allocated under the
stall-fattening credit scheme. Procedures to provide loans for market
gardening development have been approved by IDA; motor pumps would be used,
procured under local competitive bidding.
Ln. No. 1392                Second SOCAPALM Project:  US$18 million Loan and
Ln. No. 1391T              Third Window Loan:  US$7 million of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23. 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
SOCAPALM's General Manager passed away and an interim appointment
has been made; fortunately a competent candidate was available and the day-
to-day management of the company is assured. New plantings are proceeding
satisfactorily but the production potential from earlier plantings is not
being achieved due to labor problems, inadequate maintenance and processing
difficulties. In consequence SOCAPALM's revenues from mature plantings remain
below expectations. In agreement with Government appropriate measures have
been taken to strengthen the company including the recruitment of new staff
for certain key posts. Progress has been made towards establishing the
Coastal Estates Center to provide services to a group of plantation companies
with common interests, including CAMDEV and HEVECAM (Loan 1508-CM and Credit
574-CM).
Cr. No. 749                Feeder Roads Project:  US$4.6 million Credit of
Ln. No. 1494               December 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 7,
1978; Closing Date: December 31. 1983; and US$6.5
million Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date:
March 7, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After a six-month delay in selecting the technical assistance
team, the starting up of the project is gathering speed. The Central Feeder
Roads Unit is being established, equipment ordered and local staff recruited
and trained.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1508                Second CAMDEV Project:  US$15 million Loan of
February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 30,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The second CAMDEV project started well with land clearing, proceed-
ing on schedule at Kompina and with excellent nursery material available for
the first plantings. All of the key posts have now been filled with competent
personnel acceptable to the Bank.
Cr. No. 776                 Zapi East Integrated Rural Development Project:
US$8.5 million Credit of April 17, 1978; Effective-
ness Date: October 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Key staff have been appointed. A contract has been signed by ZAPI
with "Planning Assistance, Inc." for provision of management and planning
training and the development of a monitoring system. Letters of agreement
have been signed with all cooperating agencies. Bidding documents have been
issued for the provision of vehicles and for coffee hulling and grading
equipment.
Cr. No. 784                 Western Highlands Project:  US$13 million Credit
of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 8,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Recruitment procedures of other technical aid personnel are pro-
gressing well. Transfer of lower level extension staff from the Ministry of
Agriculture to UCCAO has started according to proposed phasing of appraisal.
Cr. No. 763                 Second SEMRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit
Ln. No. 1512                of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984; and US$14.5
million Loan of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
April 14, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and with highly
qualified staff. Contracts have been signed for the main civil works and
engineering services, and orders have been placed for over 90 percent of the
force account equipment. Costs have remained well within appraisal estimates.
The main civil works are expected to be completed on schedule in June 1979;
force account works are progressing satisfactorily. The co-donor, Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), has agreed to finance a comple-
mentary program of US$2 million involving support components in project
evaluation, agricultural research, livestock and fisheries development and
a reafforestation program.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1515               Third Highway Project:  US$16.5 million Loan of
April 3, 1978; Effectiveness Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is progressing well. Construction of the
Garoua-Figuil road is expected to be substantially completed by July 1979. The
Government has hired an economist/statistician to assist in transport planning
within the Ministry of Transport. Because of currency realignments, there is
an overrun of US$4.9 million (16 percent of the total project cost) which will
be borne by the Government.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
CAMEROON
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 4-1/2 years;
(b) Project prepared by Government, Consultants Frederic R. Harris (USA),
and the Bank Group;
(c) First time project presented to Bank Group: January/February 1973;
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: April 1, 1978;
(e) Negotiations completed: May 1, 1979;
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
Section II: Special Bank Group Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. NCEEP would open and maintain a special account to ensure regular
renewal of road maintenance equipment (para. 30).
2. Government will exchange views with the Bank Group prior to any
reorganization of its institutions in charge of road maintenance
(para. 30).
3. Government would not later than three months before the start of the
works submit to the review and approval of the Bank an annual work
program for the road rehabilitation works by force account (para. 41).
4. Ordering of equipment for the second and third phases is conditional
upon satisfactory performance of units and brigades equipped under
the previous phases (para. 42).
5. Government would: (i) provide sufficient budgetary funds for the
maintenance of the classified network and for the operating costs of
the rehabilitation brigades after project completion; and (ii) not
later than April 30 of each year, submit to the Bank Group for review
and comments, a draft maintenance budget for the following fiscal year
(para. 49).



IBRD 13733
r   .  -                                    e     s \,fl,        -    -       -       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)U0 197S
^ A I I |       /           /           [F@"ffiS r4                                                              JO ;  I 3
a s R     e    /    C HA V OKF  rH/AD 
-               SUVAN           b o      f  o
-4 4\gJ.         E 2 1 A /<  Sl                grw                                        Se  
_  g>J    F       R    I C b N;                   N   I  G   E  R       A                      NA
,,AMEROO\ ,'i '
,, e0 Ear>^,,NEt,<;,_<, t  v V - f i @ \ ~~~~C H A D
C ONGr    ZAIRE                                9                               i(
UNIfTED 1EPUSftC Of CAMEROONr                                                           i    Grwda  
-  tO13RT:H- HGHWlAY PROECT                                                                                        -| ,           
40':~~~~~~~4
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ose                                                               I?ir  qos 
rD.  .___ Uw : i---.iJ C HAD r
. .  *       P     rJiofhfios wihsubdivsifion    mF'rslk#r$r50|  
*    SWmsicits                  a         z 2    l  rse o     .-e  E/ /  
International onpoTt'
. e  bxronsfd fcies                                                     >\, 
N I-:    R I- At\     
WI 
M~~~~~~~~~~4Mr
UMIT.  ,E~u ,,,, O',E CAMur A1u                                                                          C E N T R A L
;  t   0  t9      >     M     b       4                    \_    j                   <s4?b.               A f R I C A N
. ,   t    M                    y                  t,1  / \ A,  XgPtR~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M  tR 
-    NOHG,o01~D b)  ~-l"-
NMACiAS NGUEMiEtAK
GUINEA                                                                      0- I- o  --  j    /
0    $UWOE               E0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LES0    
-. -. Kle(oO3O ATU1  UlAr GUeEA-
C   " O4or~ 'j    s                               I1('~   ~', T'                NorNz\                             }     i
C- m Nfbsa)               Abm__~-_-f.                                                                     s
4~~~~~~-                          ", 'i ,CLEr   ^ 2~3>-   .Ml(no
r                1 \, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9   :    :                  <              ib  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
IAAOAS s@iAt%NGUEA  i   g'u                     \AO6U OE ,<tur2jOo  ,N                                    5\.f
i             ,Q  /r        



