CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 926 CM
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 23, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 926 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1979, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank)
to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the B4nk (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the
Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to thirty eight million dollars
($38,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) the Borrower has undertaken to provide for adequate
maintenance of its road network to the extent not covered by the
Project, in particular periodic maintenance of its paved roads;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to thev Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,


﻿-2-
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions):
(a) Paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:
"9. The term Project means the project for which the
Credit is granted, as described in the Development Credit
Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the
Association and the Bank."
(b) Paragraph (b) of Section 6.02 is deleted and the follow-
ing is substituted therefor:
"(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any
other obligation under the Development Credit Agreement or
the Loan Agreement (as such term is defined in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement)."
(c)   Paragraph (c) of Section 7.01 is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any
other obligation on the part of the Borrower under the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement (as
such term is defined in the Development Credit Agreement),
and such default shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
or the Bank to the Borrower."
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and any schedule to the Loan Agreement;
a                                                                       MIM


﻿-3-
(b) "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agree-
ment;
(c) "Loan Account" means the account defined in paragraph
10 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions referred to in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement;
(d) "DH" means the Department of Highways of the Borrower's
Ministry of Equipment and Housing, or any successor thereto;
(e) "NCEEP" means the National Civil Engineering Equipment
Pool, an autonomous public corporation of the Borrower, or any
successor thereto;
(f) "NCASMSE" means the National Center for Assistance
to Small and Medium Scale Enterprises, a public corporation of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(g) "Road Planning Unit" means the Road Planning Unit
to be set up under Part E of the Project in accordance with
Section 3.07 of this Agreement, or any successor thereto; and
(h) "IGERA" means the Inspection Gen6rale de l'Etat
et de la Reforme Administrative of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association
and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1989, and ending April 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B
of the Project through DH and NCEEP, Parts C (i) and (iii), D, E
and F through DH, and Part C (ii) through NCASMSE, all with due
diligence and (efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, planning, training, economic, financial and admin-
istrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) In order to carry out its obligations pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section and without any limitation or
restriction upon such obligations, the Borrower, in particular:


﻿-5-
(i) shall employ qualified local personnel as required
for the diligent and efficient execution of the
Project, including, except as the Association
may otherwise agree, inter alios staff to fill the
main Project positions as provided in Part A of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(ii) shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance
with a work organization and maintenance procedures
and standards which shall be satisfactory to the
Association. In particular, the Borrower shall
cause DH to prepare an annual work program for the
road rehabilitation works to be carried out under
Part B (ii) of the Project and, not later than
three months before the start of the works under
any such annual program, the Borrower shall furnish
such proposed program to the Association for review
and approval. The roads to be included in such
annual work programs shall be selected in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to assist DH, NCEEP and NCASMSE in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower, except as the Association
may otherwise agree, shall employ experts and consultants in
accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement. Such experts and consultants shall have such qualifica-
tions and experience and be employed on such terms and conditions
as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the AssAciation.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, work and procurement


﻿-6-
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date for the
Loan or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the D)evelopment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
(d) In order to carry out its obligations pursuant to
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section and without limitation
thereon, the Borrower shall designate a qualified and experienced
Project coordinator who shall be responsible for, inter alia:
(i) keeping the Association currently informed of the progress of
the Project and, in particular, furnishing to the Association
quarterly Project progress reports of such scope and in such form
and detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and (ii)
preparing a final report to serve as a basis for the Project
completion report to be furnished by t. Borrower to the Associ-
ation pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to make available, as and when needed, all such


﻿71
-7 -
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall select recipients and
establish training curricula acceptable to the Association for
the fellowships under Parts A (ii) and (iii) of the Project.
Section 3.07 The Borrower shall set up and staff the
Road Planning Unit under Part E of the Project not later than
December 31, 1979, and thereafter maintain it.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, as part
of the records referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditure; and
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure and shall enable the Asso-
ciation's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section for
each semester audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by IGERA or any other independent
auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the Association; (ii)


﻿- 8 -
-8-
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such semester, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by IGERA or such
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, an opinion by IGERA or said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in said paragraph as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning said separate
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause its classified
road network and its road maintenance equipment to be adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with appropriate
technical and economic practices, and shall provide or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for this purpose. To that
end, the Borrower shall in particular and without limitation
to the generality of the foregoing:
(i) cause NCEEP to open and maintain a special account
for the exclusive purpose of financing the renewal
of road maintenance equipment and funded through
annual provisions out of the revenues from the
lease of NCEEP equipment, such provisions to be
determined on the baais of the replacement cost of
such equipment and its average economic life so as
to ensure the regular renewal thereof; and
(ii) after completion of the Project, maintain the
rehabilitation brigades established under Part B
(ii) thereof and provide, promptly as needed, the
funds required to cover their operating expendi-
tures.
(b) Not later than April 30 of each year until Project
completion, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its review and comments, the draft budget for the road maintenance
operations proposed to be undertaken in the fiscal year commencing
on the following July 1, together with a list of the equipment and


﻿--9-
personnel foreseen to be available for such operations and a
report on the progress of its road maintenance program for the
current fiscal year.
Section 4.03. In the course of the periodic consultations on
the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall inter alia
exchange views with the Association, if it intends to take any
of the following measures: (i) any major reform or reorganization
of its departments or agencies partaking in road maintenance
operations; or (ii) creation or any subsequent modification of a
road fund or similar special account for the financing of road
construction and maintenance.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall collect and record in
accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures
(including regular and systematic traffic counts) such technical,
economical and financial information as shall be required for
the proper monitoring and planning of maintenance, improvements
and extensions of its classified road network.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all reasonable
measures, including the establishment and enforcement of
appropriate limitations on size and weight of vehicles,
necessary to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of
vehicles using its classified road network shall not exceed
limits consistent with the design standards of the roads in such
network.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the Loan Agreement, other than fulfillment of the
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement, have been met.
Section 5.02. The date October 22, 1979, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.07, 4,02 (a), 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Planning
Yaounde
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINEP                             8268 KN or
Yaounde                           8203 KN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By Is/ Michael T. Kima
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Equipment for road          24,000,000       100% of foreign
maintenance and                             expenditures
rehabilitation,                             and 63% of local
workshops, train-                           expenditures
ing and weighing
stations
(2) Materials, fuel              6,800,000       63%
and lubricants,
and spare parts
for the rehabili-
tation brigades
under Part B (ii)
of the Project
(3) Civil works for              5,100,000       55%
construction of
buildings under
Part A (ii), road
rehabilitation
under Part C (i)
and weighing
stations under
Part D of the
Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(4) Experts and                 6,700,000       100% of foreign
consultants'                               expenditures
services and                               and 65% of local
fellowships                                expenditures
(5) Unallocated                 5,400,000
TOTAL       48,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no
proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Association or the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item as required to be con-
sistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association and
the Bank.


﻿-14-
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000, may
be made in respect of Category (4) on account of payments made for
such expenditures for Part F (i) of the Project before that date
but after March 31, 1979.
5.   Except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank -shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have
been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the
Loan Account except under commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
and of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association or the Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Association or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan, as the
case may be, which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association and the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures tor such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan and the Association or
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development
Credit Agreement or of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit or of the
Loan (as the case may be) as, in the Bank's or the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of t'.e
proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to improve maintenance of the
Borrower's classified road network and the operation of the
entities responsible therefor, to promote small and medium scale
domestic civil works contractors, to control vehicle loads and to
improve road planning. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:  Training
A training program of about three years for DH and NCEEP
personnel in road maintenance operations and administration,
to train, or upgrade the skills of, about 600 foremen, gang
leaders, operators, drivers, mechanics and accountants, through:
(i) establishment, equipping and initial operation, for
on-the-job training, of a DH training/production
brigade;
(ii) construction, equipping, staffing and initial
operation of a DH training center in the Yaounde
area, including fellowships for training abroad of
the senior staff of such center; and
(iii) strengthening of the existing NCEEP training
centers for mechanics in Douala and for operators
in Yaounde through provision of equipment and
about ten fellowships for training abroad of
Cameroonian instructors for said centers.
Part B:  Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
A program of about four years to provide for routine main-
tenance and minor repairs by force account of about 16,900 km
of main classified roads during such period and rehabilitation by
force account of about 1,350 km of major unpaved roads, through:
(i) establishment and operation of mechanical and
manual DH road maintenance units;
(ii) establishment and operation of 9 DH rehabilitation
brigades (including the brigade under Part A (i) of
the Project) for unpaved roads;


﻿- 16 -
(iii) provision of road maintenance equipment for the DH
units and brigades to be established under Parts
B (i) and (ii) of the Project to NCEEP which
shall make it available, on a permanent basis, to
such units and brigades; and
(iv) provision of workshop equipment and tools to
NCEEP's existing seven workshops and to DR subdi-
visions.
Part C:   Promotion of Small and Medium Scale Domestic Civil
Works Contractors
(i) Rehabilitation of about 340 km of unpaved roads by
contractors.
(ii) Technical assistance to small and medium scale
domestic civil works contractors to advise them,
in particular, on the preparation of bidding
documents, the selection of equipment, the organi-
zation of works, administrative and financial
management and applications for equipment loans.
(iii) Preparation and subsequent implementation of
policy measures to further the development of
small and medium scale domestic civil works
contractors.
Part D:   Control of Vehicle Loads
Installation of two weighing stations, one on the Douala-
Bafoussam road and the other on the Ngaoundere-Garoua road,
including offices and unloading and storage areas or facilities.
Part E:   Road Planning
Setting up and staffing of a Road Planning Unit within DR
responsible, in particular, for: (i) collection and analysis of
basic transport data; (ii) carrying out of prefeasibility studies
and supervision of economic studies undertaken by consultants; and
(iii) preparation and follow-up of road investment programs.
Part F:   Preinvestment Studies
(i) Completion of the preinvestment study currently
being undertaken for the Douala-Yaounde road.


﻿- 17 -
(ii) Preparation by the Road Planning Unit of feasi-
bility studies for the improvement of about 500 km
of forestry roads selected by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
(iii) Detailed engineering studies for about 250 km of
the roads included in Part F (ii) of the Project,
to be selected by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this .Schedule, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2
of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
!'.Lrst tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
4.   To the extent feasible, equipment shall be grouped for
purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procurement. In view of
the substantial financial, administrative and manpower resources
required on the part of the Borrower to carry out the full road
maintenance and rehabilitation program under Part B of the


﻿- 19 -
Project, the equipment needed therefor shall be procured in three
successive phases. Before ordering the equipment for phase two or
three, the Borrower shall first satisfy the Association that:
(a) adequate financing is available for road mainte-
nance during the on-going fiscal year;
(b) road maintenance units and road rehabilitation
brigades previously equipped under the Project are perform-
ing adequately; and
(c) the training program under Part A of the Project
is progressing as required to ensure an adequate and timely
supply of trained manpower. For that purpose, the Borrower
shall in particular make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for the assignment of DH and NCEEP personnel to
said program.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Cameroon may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Cameroon if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associ-
ation that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Cameroon equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Cameroon.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 20 -
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C hids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment items which
cannot be grouped as provided in paragraph 4 of Part A of this
Schedule and are estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 each may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with local procedures acceptable
to the Association; provided, however, that the aggregate amount
of the contracts so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of materials, fuel and
lubricants, and spare parts may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Contracts for civil works under Parts A (ii), C (i) and
D of the Project shall be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Association; provided that bidders for civil


﻿- 21 -
works under Part C (i) and infrastructure works under Part D of
the Project shall be prequalified in accordance with paragraph 1.3
of the Guidelines.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifica-
tions in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts, with respect to all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 22 -
(d) One original and one copy of the contract shall be
furnished to the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, one original and one copy of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an ext(nsion of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Staffing and Technical Assistance
(Sections 3.GI (b) (i) and 3.02 of
the DevelopmenA-- Credit Agreement)
A.   Staffing
1.   Main Project Positions in DH:
(a) for the training/production brigade under Part A
(i) of the Project:
(i) a road engineer, a chief operator and a
chief mechanic, as counterparts to the
experts referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of
Part B of this Schedule; and
(ii) two road foremen and one senior mechanic;
(b) a head and, as instructors, two road supervisors, a
chief mechanic, a chief operator and an admin-
istrative/accounting specialist all of whose
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory
to the Association, for the DH training center
under Part A (ii) of the Project; and
(c) an economist or statistician in charge of the Road
Planning Unit and two senior technicians for that
Unit.
2.   Main Project Positions in NCEEP:
(a) two auto mechanics, two diesel mechanics and two
electricians for the NCEEP training center for
mechanics in Douala included in Part A (iii) of the
Project; and
(b) four chief operators for the NCEEP training center
for operators in Yaounde included in said Part of
the Project.
3.   Other Main Project Positions:
a counterpart to the expert referred to in paragraph
3 (b) of Part B of this Schedule, to be designated within
one year after said expert is in post.


﻿- 24 -
B.   Technical Assistance
1.   For Training (Part A of the Project):
(a) a training advisor to assist DH and NCEEP in
carrying out Part A and coordinating it with the
other Parts of the Project; and
(b) a road engineer, a chief operator and a chief
mechanic to assist DH in carrying out Parts A (i)
and (ii) of the Project, to be employed upon
designation of the counterparts to said experts
referred to in subparagraph 1 (a) (i) of Part A of
this Schedule.
2.   For Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation (Part B of
the Project):
(a) a road engineer, as leader of the team of experts
listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) below, to assist
DH and NCEEP in carrying out Part B and coordinat-
ing it with the other Parts of the Project;
(b) an organization/accounting expert to assist DH in
carrying out Parts B (i) and (ii) of the Project;
and
(c) a procurement advisor, a mechanical engineer, an
equipment specialist and a spare parts management
specialist to assist NCEEP in carrying out Parts B
(iii) and (iv) of the Project.
3.   For the Promotion of Small and Medium Scale Domestic
Civil Works Contractors (Part C of the Project):
(a) a road engineer to assist DH in carrying out
Part C (i) of the Project;
(b) an advisor to assist NCASMSE in carrying out
Part C (ii), and the Borrower in carrying out
Part C (iii) of the Project; and
(c) an administrative expert to assist DH in carrying
out Part C (iii) of the Project.


﻿- 25 -
4.   For Road Planning and Preinvestment Studies (Parts E and
F of the Project):
(a) a transport economist to assist the Road Planning
Unit in carrying out Part E of the Project, to
be employed upon designation of the staff referred
to in paragraph 1 (c) of Part A of this Schedule;
and
(b) consultants to assist DH in carrying out Parts F
(i) and (iii) of the Project.


﻿I   .-
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Criteria for Selection of Roads to be
Rehabilitated under Part B of the Project
(Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the
Development Credit Agreement)
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the roads
to be included in the annual work programs referred to in sub-
paragraph (ii) of Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement for rehabilitation under Part B (ii) of the Project
shall meet the following criteria:
(a) On a priority basis, unpaved roads with an average daily
traffic of not less than 100 vehicles or, alternatively, serving
specific development projects.
(b) An estimated economic rate of return of not less than
15% for the rehabilitation works proposed to be carried out.
Benefits will be calculated principally on the basis of road-user
savings on vehicle operating costs (VOC); however, for those roads
serving specific development projects, part of the incremental
value added generated by the development project may be included
instead of VOC savings on the generated traffic.
(c) Priority in terms of size and characteristics of the
population and the social and administrative centers served by
the road.
(d) Geographical distribution of roads to be included
in a particular annual work program so as to facilitate logistics
for the rehabilitation brigades.


