Report No. 1076b-BO                                                       FILE  COPY
Bolivia: Appraisal of the Urban and Rural
Communities Water Supply and Sewerage
Project
August 30, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                                                  Bolivian Peso B$
US$1                                                           B$20.00
B$l                                                            US$0.05
B$1 million                                                   US$50,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer (kIn)                                                0.62 miles
Square Kilometer (kmi2)                                       0.386 square feet
Cubic Meter (m 3                                               35.3 cubic feet
264 gallons (US)
220 gallons (Imperial)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAPOS           =       Sanitary Works Administration for Potosi.
BANVI           -       National Bank for Housing and Urban Development.
BC              =       Central Bank of Bolivia
CODECH          =       Departmental Development Organization for the
Department of Chuquisaca
CODEPO          =       Departmental Development Organization for the
Department of Potosi
CNT             =       National Tariff Council
CODECO          =       Departmental Development Organization for the
Department of Cochabamba.
CORDEOR         =       Departmental Development Organization for the
Department of Oruro
CORDENO         =       Departmental Development Organization for the
Department of Pando.
CORPAGUAS       =       Water and Sewerage Corporation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CWC             =       Community Water Committees
DDO             =       Departmental Development Organization
DIU             =       Division of Urban Engineering
ELAPAS          =       Water Supply and Sewerage Company of Sucre
IDB             =       Inter-American Development Bank
MUV             =       Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
PAHO            -       Pan American Health Organization
UNDP            -       United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF          =       United Nations Children's Fund
USAID           -       United States Agency for International Development
WHO             =       World Health Organization
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1      -      December 31
Th dmumsnt hIs a ftitkud ditibution and nmy be _md by uonte only in the Psonmao
df * eosM duW4. ji "oeol My not otherwie be disclosod wihmb  Would 3aak uthorlion.






BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...................................-11
I.    INTRODUCTION ........ .................                                   1
II.  THE SECTOR ..........................                                       1
Background ....... .................                                2
Government Policies ..............................                  2
Institutions ....................................                   3
Finances  , .. .                                                    4
Financial Policies .....       ................                     4
III.    THE INSTITUTIONS              ......................................      5
Administration of the Loan ..... .............                      5
Rural Component - CORPAGUAS .... ............                       6
Departmental Development Committees ..             ............     6
The Beneficiaries ..... .................                           7
Urban Component - AAPOS .....           .....................       7
ELAPAS .......       ....................................           7
DIU ....................   .     ..........................         8
IV.   THE PROJECT ...........................................                    8
Scope of the Project .....         .....................            8
Rural Component ......         ........................             8
Proposed Facilities .....         ......................            9
Urban Component ..................................                 11
Potosi - Existing Water Supply Facilities ........                 11
Potosi - Proposed Water Supply Facilities ........                 11
Sucre -  Existing Water Supply Facilities .... ....                12
Sucre -  Existing Sewer Facilities ..............         .        12
Sucre -  Proposed Water Supply Facilities .... ....                13
Sucre -  Proposed Sewerage Facilities ....           ........      13
Consultants for Technical Assistance and
Engineering .......         .............................       15
Cost Estimates ................          ...................       15
Procurement             ............ 15
Disbursements ........          ............................       15
Project Supervision and Administration ....           .......      16
Environmental Aspects ............................                 16



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .....       ............................     16
Rural Component - Economic Benefits ...........    ...       17
Selection of Projects .....       .......................    17
Urban Component - Potosi          .........................  17
Water Supply Requirements .....       ...................    17
Need to Increase Water Supply .................    ...       18
Sucre - Water Supply Requirement ...............    ..       18
Return on Investment .....        ........................   18
VI.   FINANCES ..............................................            20
Rural Component - CORPAGUAS .......... .. ..........         20
Urban Component ...........  ...................... .        21
Urban Undertakings - AAPOS ....          ...................  22
ELAPAS ...........................................           22
Future Finances ..................................           23
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDTi6NS ............      ....       27
ANNEXES
1.     Existing Facilities and Project Works
2.     Cost Estimates
3.     Disbursement Schedule
4.     Assumptions for Financial Projections
5.     Financial Projections, AAPOS
6.     Financial Projections, ELAPAS
7.     Monitoring Indicators
8.     Tariffs
CHARTS
15679 Organization Chart - CORPAGUAS
15678 Organization Chart - AAPOS
15677 Organization Chart - ELAPAS
15997 Implementation Schedule
15996 Relationship of Agencies
MAPS
11984 Bolivia - Location of Subprojects
11985 Potosi Water Supply - Location of Works
11986 Sucre Water Supply - Location of Works



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a water supply and sewerage project which
will implement changes in sector policies in Bolivia through the financing
of construction in two cities, Potosi and Sucre, and in approximately 70
rural communities. The project, including a technical assistance program,
has an estimated cost of US$15.0 million. A Bank loan of US$11.5 million
equivalent is proposed to cover US$11.13 million of foreign costs and US$0.37
million of local consulting costs.
ii.       The project's rural communities are located largely in the Altiplano
where subsistence agriculture predominates. The two cities are both economic
centers, Potosi (population 75,000), being the main mining center, and Sucre
(55,000), the legal capital of Bolivia.
iii.      During project implementation, the Government proposes to decentral-
ize responsibilities for rural water supply from a Central Government organiza-
tion - the Water and Sewerage Corporation (CORPAGUAS) - to existing Departmental
Development Organizations (DDOs). 1/ This change would facilitate the coordi-
nation of water supply projects with other development activities and improve
the standard of operation and maintenance by providing local control. In
addition, national standards for water tariffs would be implemented with the
aim of increasing revenues in the urban centers to make water supply activities
self-financing.
iv.       The Borrower would be the Government of Bolivia (GOB), represented
by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MUV). There would be individual
project agreements between the Bank and each of the executing agencies.
v.        The Project will provide a supply of safe water to about 100,000
people in the villages and to an additional 50,000, principally poor, in the
two cities. In both cities, the canals which carry the main supply of water
will be protected to end service interruptions and rationing. Additional
supplies of water in Potosi will also serve a new mineral processing plant.
vi.       All the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the loan will be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. With
the exception of small diameter plastic pipe, all contracts for pipe,
accessories, pumps and equipment are expected to be won by foreign firms.
Because of the remote locations and the small size of the civil works, local
contractors are expected to win all the civil works contracts although foreign
firms would not be excluded from bidding.
1/   Bolivia is divided into nine regions known as Departments.



- ii -
vii.      The Project is the least-cost alternative for supplying the urban
and rural communities with adequate supplies of water.
viii.     During negotiations agreement was reached on the conditions listed
in Chapter VI. The Project is therefore suitable for a Bank loan of US$11.5
million equivalent, for a term of 20 years, including a 4 1/2 - year grace
period.



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bolivia has requested a loan to help finance
a US$15.0 million equivalent water supply and sewerage program. The program
has a rural component to bring water service to about 100,000 people in some
seventy communities and an urban component for the cities of Potosi and Sucre.
A US$11.5 million loan is proposed to the Government of Bolivia. There would
be separate project agreements with:
(i)  The Water and Sewerage Corporation (CORPAGUAS)
for the rural component;
(ii)  The Sanitary Works Administration for Potosi (AAPOS)
for a water supply project in the city of Potosi; and
(iii)  The Water Supply and Sewerage Company of Sucre (ELAPAS)
for a water supply and sewerage project in the city of
Sucre.
1.02      A Sector Report No. 712-BO, prepared by a WHO/IBRD mission, was
issued in April 1975. The Government of Bolivia has developed sector
policies based on this study and subsequent Bank mission recommendations.
These policies will be implemented as a part of this project. This would
be the first loan made by the Bank for water supply and sewerage in Bolivia.
1.03      The studies and designs for the urban component were prepared by
local and foreign consultants; those for the rural component by CORPAGUAS
and were financed from local funds.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission
of October 1975 comprised of Messrs. J. Freedman, L. Jeurling, C. Fernandez,
E. Pogson and K. Ringskog.  The report was written by J. Freedman and E. Pogson,
with the assistance of C. Fernandez for the financial projections.
II. THE SECTOR
2.01      This chapter contains a brief overview of the sector and outlines
the policies of the Government of Bolivia.  More detailed descriptions of the
proposed institutional changes are given in Section III, and of the national
standards for tariffs, in Section VI.



-2-
Background
2.02      The water supply and sewerage sector of Bolivia was studied by a
WHO/IBRD mission in October 1973, and a sector report was issued on April 15,
1975. This has been the only Bank involvement in the sector to date. Signif-
icant features of the sector are:
(i) low service levels which were estimated in
1973 to be:
URBAN             RURAL
% Population      % Population
Served            Served
Water Supply                       56                  4
Sewerage or Sanitation
Facilities                       23                  3
(ii)  the high percentage of the population who live in the
countryside. Of the 1975 estimated population of 5.5
million, 3.8 million (70%) were rural dwellers; and
(iii)  the small number of urban centers.  There are 18 centers
with populations over 10,000, including 6 with popula-
tions over 50,000.
2.03      In Latin America, only Haiti and Paraguay have lower service levels.
The need for rural water supply is particularly great since over 90% of the
families in rural areas rely on unsafe sources of water. Although health
statistics are incomplete, a clear picture of the overall situation exists.
Health standards are low; infant mortality is around 77 per 1,000 live births
compared with an infant mortality rate of 19 per 1,000 for the USA. Diseases
linked to the lack of safe water supply or unsanitary conditions cause about
12% of the total number of reported deaths for all ages.
2.04      Service levels in urban centers are higher in larger cities than in
smaller towns; each of the cities with over 50,000 inhabitants has some form
of sewage disposal. Only 2 of the other 12 centers have any municipal service.
Government Policies
2.05      The Government has adopted modest targets for future service levels
since the principal direction of government investment will be for the devel-
opment of minerals and other natural resources. The target figures for 1980
service levels are:



-3 -
Urban              Rural
Water Supply             67%                 16%
Sewerage or Sanitation
Facilities             26%                  4%
To help attain these targets, the Government wishes to use the Project to
make institutional changes and to implement new tariff policies.
Institutions
2.06      Presently, principal responsibility for the provision of water
supply and sewerage services is divided between two central government
departments:
(i)  The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs - rural water supply
(Division of Urban Engineering, DIU)         systems and urban water
and sewerage systems,
and
(ii)  The Ministry of Public Health                - rural sanitation services
(Division of Environmental Sanitation,
DIE)
The execution of projects is carried out:
(iii) In the rural areas by:
(a) CORPAGUAS - a Government corporation under the authority
of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs which con-
structs rural water supply systems;
(b) The Division of Environmental Sanitation (DIE) of the
Ministry of Public Health which includes, among other
responsibilities, the provision of latrines;
(c) Some of the nine Departmental Development Committees
(DDOs) - (in practice the DDOs of Chuquisaca and Santa
Cruz have had active programs of water supply in recent
years).
(iv) In the urban area by:
(a) Semi-autonomous water undertakings in the eight largest
cities - For water supply projects;
(b) Municipal councils - For sewerage schemes (except in
the cities of Cochabamba and Sucre);



- 4 -
(c) Certain DDOs - For water supply schemes in small
towns.
2.07      The Division of Environmental Sanitation (DIE) of the Ministry
of Public Health is responsible for providing water and sanitation services
to communities with populations under 2,000. On paper, there appears to
be a duplication of responsibility with CORPAGUAS which constructs water
supply systems for populations between 200 and 10,000. In practice, however,
there is no conflict because unsatisfied demand is beyond the capacity of
both organizations and the work of DIE is very largely confined to the
provision of latrines.
2.08      No new institutions are proposed but, during project implementa-
tion, existing institutions will be strengthened and responsibilities
clarified. In the rural areas, plans will be made for the transfer from
CORPAGUAS to some Departmental Development Committees of: (i) overall
responsibility for the supervision of operation and maintenance; (ii)
specified responsibilities for construction of new rural water systems.
The extent to which these responsibilities can be transferred will depend
on the financial and technical capabilities of the individual DDO. CORPAGUAS
will maintain an overall national responsibility for design standards. The
policy will overcome the difficulties of travel and communications from La Paz
to the rural areas and will build on the strong regional characteristics and
relative wealth of some of the DDOs. In the urban sector, the Division of
Urban Engineering will be given responsibility for the technical and financial
evaluation of future urban water supply and sewerage projects. Technical
assistance will be provided to train the staff of DIU for this role. The
provision of a national urban project evaluation unit should help ensure that
future projects are economically viable (para. 3.13).
Finances
2.09      Bolivia has relied heavily on external financing for sector develop-
ment and has received about US$75 million in grants and loans in the last
seven years. This has come from multilateral agencies, including the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and UNICEF and bilateral donors including
France, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID). Currently, projects are being executed
in the cities of La Paz, with a US$23.0 million loan from Germany, Cochabamba,
a second loan from IDB of US$12.0 million, and a rural latrine program in
three departments (UNICEF). This external financing has been almost entirely
in the form of concessionary loans of the order of 3% interest, supplemented
by government grants. Until recently, water charges in the urban centers have
barely covered the costs of operation and maintenance.
Financial Policies
2.10      The Government intends over a period oi five or six years to require
the water undertakings in the urban centers to increase the charges for water
services so that the consumers pay for the cost o;f operation, maintenance and
debt service and, additionally, the six largest cuities should also generate
some capital for future investment.



- 5 -
2.11      A National Tariff Council (CNT) has been established in the MUV with
powers to approve all new tariffs; National Standards for tariff classifica-
tion and rate structure were published in April 1974 (Ministerial Order No.
133) and modified in July 1976. The National Tariff Standard is soundly based
and would permit the development of charges for water and sewerage service
which are both financially sound and socially just. The CNT has recently
begun to implement the National Tariff Standard and will benefit from proposals
to make DIU its technical arm and by a proposed ministerial order which would
require the prior consent of DIU for project evaluation and CNT for proposed
tariffs for any future water supply or sewerage project in the urban areas
(paras. 2.08 and 3.13).
III. THE INSTITUTIONS
3.01      This chapter discusses the organization of the Borrower, Execut-
ing Agencies and the Beneficiaries and describes the institutional changes
to be made during the project period.
3.02      The Borrower will be the Government of Bolivia, represented by the
Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MUV). The Ministry has responsibili-
ties for the supervision and coordination of all Urban Development and Housing,
including sector responsibilities for Water and Sewerage, other than that held
by the Ministry of Health for small communities (para. 2.06).
3.03      The DIU is located in the Subsecretariat for Urban Affairs.
CORPAGUAS is a state corporation under the direction of the Ministry. MUV
is also a supervisory authority over the autonomous water undertakings in the
urban centers, though this power is little used other than in the approval
of tariff increases by the CNT. (Chart No. 15996 shows MUV's organization.)
Administration of the Loan
3.04      The Government of Bolivia will open three separate project accounts
in the Central Bank of Bolivia to receive the Bank and local counterpart
funds. The Borrower will execute separate loan agreements with AAPOS and
ELAPAS and a grant agreement with CORPAGUAS. Funds will be onlent to ELAPAS
and AAPOS at the same interest rate as the Bank loan, but with a 3-year grace
period (to match the construction period) and for 22 years. Disbursements
will be made separately to the three executing agencies under the terms of
individual project agreements with:
(i) CORPAGUAS for the rural subproject;
(ii) AAPOS for the subproject in Potosi; and
(iii) ELAPAS for the subproject in Sucre.



- 6-
Rural Component - CORPAGUAS
3.05      The Corporation was formed in 1967 to design, build and finance
water supply and sewerage systems for communities of up to 10,000 inhabi-
tants throughout the country. CORPAGUAS executed the first stage of a
National Water Plan which provided 68 systems in the period 1969-74. This
project was partially financed by a loan of US$1.8 million from IDB. The
Corporation will act as Executing Agent for the rural component under the
terms of a separate project agreement with the Bank.
3.06      CORPAGUAS is a compact and well managed institution - its normal
staff complement is 45; it does not have offices outside La Paz. It has a
demonstrated expertise in the design and construction of rural water supply
systems in the particular conditions of Bolivia where the conditions range
from tropical zones to very cold mountain regions. It has considerable
experience in developing community institutions to participate in new projects
and in securing finance and self-help from villagers. The Corporation has
benefitted from technical assistance from the Pan American Health Organization
(PAHO) in recent years.
Departmental Development Committees
3.07      Each Department of Bolivia has a Development Organization which is
responsible for economic development in the region and receives mineral and
other royalties. The organizations have different titles which reflect the
range of their responsibilities. Originally, the organizations executed works
of basic infrastructure under the control of the MUV, but since 1967 the area
of activities has been widened and, with the exception of Beni, the Depart-
mental Organizations are autonomous bodies known as Development Committees or
Development Corporations. Their work includes agro-industrial projects, and
forestry projects, in addition to conventional public works. The Development
Organizations receive a part of their revenue from royalties on the sale of
minerals, oil and gas produced in the department. The sums received vary --
Santa Cruz (population about 504,000) was budgeted to receive approximately
US$17 million in 1975 from the State Petroleum Company, Chuquisaca (population
about 500,000) around US$4 million and Cochabamba (population about 860,000)
US$80,000. The Government attempts to balance this inequality by budgetary
grants. During the last three years, the DDOs of Santa Cruz and Chuquisaca
have executed water supply projects using their own funds; the DDO of Potosi
(CODEPO) has worked with CORPAGUAS in joint ventures where the Corporation
designed and partly financed village water systems and CODEPO acted as execut-
ing agent and co-financier.
3.08      Bolivia's size, mountainous terrain and lack of all-weather roads
make supervision of construction and maintenance difficult, time-consuming
and costly when operated from La Paz. Because of the relatively low level
of technology involved and the existence of the DDOs as regional develop-
ment agencies, the Government's policy is to gradually decentralize responsi-
bility from CORPAGUAS to the DDOs (para. 4.05). CORPAGUAS would continue to
function as the national design and bulk purchasing agency and would continue
to construct rural water supply systems in regions where it is not feasible
for the DDO to undertake this role.



3.09      Assurances were obtained from CORPAGUAS during negotiations that a
plan to transfer responsibilities for maintenance support and specified
aspects of construction to the four DDOs of Cochabamba, Oruro, La Paz and
Potosi will be submitted to the Bank for approval not later than June 30,
1978 and would thereafter be promptly executed.
The Beneficiaries
3.10      The Beneficiaries would be the Community Water Comittees (CWCs),
organizations set up to represent the villagers in the negotiations to
acquire a potable water supply system and to subsequently maintain it.
CORPAGUAS has found that it is essential for a community to demonstrate its
willingness to participate in the Project. After the villagers have formally
indicated their desire to have a potable water supply system, the village is
required to form a CWC as the first step in the process. The CWC discusses
with CORPAGUAS the type of system it would like constructed, including a
decision on the number of standpipes and house connections. The CWC under-
takes to raise a contribution to the cost of construction which is at least
15%, partly in cash, partly in materials and labor. Some of the cash is
collected and deposited with CORPAGUAS before construction begins. When
agreement is reached, the system is designed, and a contract is signed defin-
ing contributions, responsibilities and tariff conditions. During construc-
tion, the villagers complete their commitments by supplying the promised cash,
labor and materials. When the system is handed over, the CWC collects the
monthly contributions from households and is responsible for routine operation
and maintenance. This method of rural organizational development has been
proven in practice over recent years. Under the proposed project, CORPAGUAS
will sign a contract with each CWC, supported by a guarantee agreement with
the respective DDOs. The DDO guarantees the contribution of the community
(cash or donated labor and materials). During negotiations assurances were
obtained that prior to the commencement of construction for any individual
system, CORPAGUAS will execute such contracts and guarantee agreements with
the respective CWCs and DDOs, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.
Urban Component - AAPOS
3.11      While AAPOS is legally an autonomous agency responsible for water
and sewerage services in the city of Potosi, in practice it is financially
weak and relies on subsidies from CODEPO. The sewer system for the city
is being installed, maintained and subsidized by the municipal council.
AAPOS has a sound engineering staff but a deficient commercial and accounting
section. The proposed loan includes funds for technical assistance to streng-
then the commercial and accounting activities of the institution (para. 4.09).
AAPOS has executed contracts of a similar size to the proposed project works
and is competent to act as executing agency.
ELAPAS
3.12      ELAPAS has operated as an autonomous water undertaking in Sucre
since April 1, 1973, and has competently tackled the problems of water supply



- 8 -
in the city, including extension of the distribution network and the construc-
tion of a new water treatment plant. It is the only water authority in
Bolivia which has installed water meters to the majority of its connections.
The organization is well run and requires only a small input of technical
assistance (para. 4.12) in the area of financial accounting and costing.
ELAPAS has legal personality, and would act as executing agent for the sub-
project.
DIU
3.13      Within the Division of Urban Engineering, a Project Evaluation Unit
is being established for the urban sector and as the executive arm of the
National Tariff Council. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
MUV will, not later than December 30, 1976, issue the necessary regulation to
require that any public entity which is seeking Bolivian or foreign funds to
finance a water supply or sewerage project for a community of 10,000 or more
be required to obtain the prior approval of:
(i) The Project Evaluation Unit, for the size of the
investment and the amount of financing;
(ii) The National Tariff Council, for the level of tariffs
prior to, during and after the proposed project.
The use of these existing organizations, strengthened by the project's techni-
cal assistance (para. 4.14), should help to direct a greater part of the
scarce funds to smaller and poorer urban centers. Organization charts are
provided for CORPAGUAS (No. 15679), AAPOS (No. 15678), ELAPAS (No. 15677) and
MUV (No. 15996).
IV. THE PROJECT
Scope of the Project
4.01      The Project is designed to improve and extend water supply in
approximately 70 rural communities and two cities in Bolivia in addition to
extending sewerage in Sucre. It provides for technical assistance to the
Project Evaluation Unit within MUV for urban projects and to the executing
agencies, CORPAGUAS, ELAPAS and AAPOS. Detailed descriptions of existing
facilities and the project works are given in Annex 1; of technical assist-
ance in Annex 2.
Rural Component
Existing Facilities
4.02      Some of the communities have no public water supply, and the inhabit-
ants resort to water from creeks, shallow wells, or private vendors. Also used
are rudimentary systems such as a small pipeline conducting water from a



- 9 -
spring to a public fountain in the central square; others have more complete
systems with a small distribution network and a few house connections and
fountains. Most of the existing systems provide limited supplies of water,
frequently unsafe, and are in various stages of deterioration because of the
lack of organized maintenance, poor design or age.
Proposed Facilities
4.03      A national plan for community water supplies has been prepared and
is presently being executed by CORPAGUAS. The first stage was financed by
IDB and 68 systems were built. The proposed Bank loan would finance a second
stage of the National Plan. The staff of CORPAGUAS has a list of 80 communi-
ties which have requested a water supply system (for which the villagers are
willing to contribute 15% of project cost), and has prepared detailed reports
for 35 water supply systems, 17 of which have been reviewed and found accept-
able. Reports and plans for the remaining community water systems will be
reviewed before the Bank authorizes their construction; distribution of the
first 35 subprojects by population size is shown in Table 1. During the project,
CORPAGUAS will prepare engineering reports for the remaining systems, which
will also be reviewed and approved by the Bank prior to construction. The
design work is expected to be substantially completed by December 1977.
Selection criteria are discussed in para. 5.03. CORPAGUAS, with its own
staff, will do the field work, census, topographic surveys, and procurement as
well as supervision of construction since its staff has proven experience in
carrying out work and projects of this type.
4.04      From long experience, CORPAGUAS has developed practical criteria for
the selection of communities and their water systems. Important elements in
these criteria are: (i) desire and initiative of the community to obtain
a potable water supply; (ii) community organization to participate in the
planning, building and operation and maintenance of the system; (iii) willing-
ness to pay rates and charges for the water supply service; (iv). population,
size and density; (v) availability of a safe, easily developed source of
water; (vi) accessibility; (vii) per capita cost for the system; (viii) capa-
city to contribute funds, labor and local materials and to pay for operation
and maintenance; (ix) capacity to administer and operate the system. Of these
criteria, community interest is given greatest weight. To reduce operation
and maintenance costs, safe gravity sources are given preference, followed by
well supplies close to the village. Sources requiring treatment such as
filtration and extensive pumping are used only as a last resort. Where
possible the water supply project is coordinated with a latrine program
executed by the Ministry of Public Health. CORPAGUAS has agreed to maintain
its selection criteria and to seek prior approval of the Bank for any proposed
amendment.



- 1' -
Table 1
DISTRIBUTION BY SIZE OF COMMUNITY OF THE
FIRST 35 RURAL COMMUNITIES WITH DETAILED REPORTS
Present Population (1975)               Number of Communities
Under            500                           5
501    -    1,000                           11
1,001    -    1,500                            7
1,501    -    2,000                            4
2,001    -    2,500                            2
2,501    -    3,000                            3
3,001    -    3,500                            2
Over           3,500                           1
35
4.05      Initially CORPAGUAS will supervise the maintenance and operation
of the systems by the Community Water Supply Committees, but as part of the
proposed decentralization this responsibility would be transferred to the
DDOs. Further decentralization will be achieved by transferring construc-
tion responsibility to those DDOs that have adequate staff and competence.
To achieve this decentralization, CORPAGUAS with the assistance of the
consultants will:
(i) Produce a set of standard designs and bills of materials
for typical village water systems based on a restricted
range of pipe sizes and standard components;
(ii) Produce operating manuals for use by village maintenance
staff and engineers of the DDOs;
(iii) Institute procedures for the coordination of supplies
and bulk purchase of imported materials by the DDOs; and
(iv) Prepare plans for the transfer of maintenance and
construction responsibilities to the DDOs. These plans
will include provisions for operator training and the
stocking of spare parts.
CORPAGUAS would retain responsibility for design standards and materials,
and would continue to design and, if necessary, construct or supervise systems
with unusual technical features. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that CORPAGUAS will hire qualified consultants on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank for the preparation of the standard designs and manuals,
which will be presented to the Bank for comment not later than June 30, 1978.



- 1 1 -
Urban Component
4.06      Comprehensive urban development studies have been completed by
Bolivian consultants for Potosi and Sucre. Master plans for the expansion
of the water supply and sewerage systems have been made for AAPOS and ELAPAS,
and these are coordinated with the overall urban development plans. Detailed
designs for some of the major works have been completed, including that for
the sewer system extension in Sucre; others will be completed by local con-
sultants as part of the Project. Present and future service levels and in-
cremental population served by the Project are shown in the following table:
Table 2
SERVICE LEVELS - URBAN COMMUNITIES
1975       % Served      % Served       Incremental Population
City      Population       Water       Sewerage         Served in 1983 ('000)
('000)       '75  '80    '75   '80         Water        Sewerage
Sucre        55.3         74   82      48    80          16            27
Potosi        75.1        49   83      /      /1         34        Unavailable
/1   The sewer system is the responsibility of the municipal government
and not part of the proposed project.
Potosi
Existing Water Supply Facilities
4.07      All water supplied comes from impoundments in the mountains fed by
gravity to the city. The distribution system has been developed piecemeal
over 300 years in an uncoordinated way. The sewer system is being constructed
and operated by the municipality.
4.08      None of the consumer connections are metered, and population esti-
mates vary widely not only because the last census was in 1965 (a national
census is proposed for 1976), but also because the number of inhabitants
fluctuates with changes in mining output (see Annex 1). Such factors mean
that only rough estimates can be made of production, consumption and losses.
The average consumption per connection has been estimated at 25 cubic meters a
month (90 liters per inhabitant per day) because of the cold climate. System
losses are estimated to account for 62% of water produced.
Proposed Water Supply Facilities
4.09      The proposed subproject for Potosi is the second stage of a 20-year
program "Improvement of the Water System of the City of Potosi." The sub-
project provides for the following works and studies:



- 12 -
(a) Intake Works: repair of dikes and construction of infiltra-
tion galleries at Pati-Pati and San Jose;
(b) Conveyance Improvements: lining of Pati-Pati - San Jose
canal to reduce losses;
(c) Treatment Plant: additional filter area and sedimentation
capacity;
(d) Distribution Network: extension of distribution network
to low-income areas and satellite communities;
(e) Metering: a program to install meters or control devices
to 80% of source and consumer connections not later
than December 31, 1976;
(f) Leak Detection and Repair: a program to locate and
reduce leakage to 23%;
(g) Census of Users: a survey to determine the number and
size of connections. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that this census will be completed with the
help of the technical assistance program not later than
April 30, 1977; and
(h) Technical Assistance: consultant services and training to
improve the organization, management and financial
condition of AAPOS.
Sucre
Existing Water Supply Facilities
4.10      The main supply for the city of Sucre is a 42 kilometer canal
and pipeline which brings water by gravity from the Rio Ravelo. The canal
passes through areas subject to landslides which cause interruptions in
service. Maintenance camps are found at strategic locations, but a central
section of the canal lacks access roads, thus delaying maintenance operations.
The water receives complete treatment in a rapid sand filter plant which has
adequate capacity to meet the needs until 1980.
Existing Sewer Facilities
4.11      The old part of the city, with about 26,000 inhabitants, is served
by a combined sewer. The sewer discharges at several points into natural
watercourses draining the city and eventually into the Rio Quirpinchaca which
is used for irrigation. The oil refinery on the edge of town also discharges
untreated waste into the Rio Quirpinchaca system.



- 13 -
Proposed Water Supply Facilities
4.12      The proposed subproject would reduce the possibility of inter-
ruptions in service, extend service to new areas, ensure continuous operation
of the treatment plant and increase the number of metered connections. The
subproject would include the following works:
(i) Ravelo Canal: protective masonry works and tunnels around
slide areas; construction of connecting access road;
(ii) Treatment Plant: spare parts to ensure continuous operation;
(iii) Distribution Network: strengthening of system in the central
area and expansion to new areas; additional storage
reservoirs;
(iv) Metering and House Connections: installation of new connec-
tions and water meters; and
(v) Technical Assistance: consultants for training local staff and
improving the accounting and financial management of the
institution.
Proposed Sewerage Facilities
4.13      The combined sewers would be repaired and provided with overflow
devices to handle discharges from heavy rainfall. Normal discharge would go
into new collectors functioning as sanitary sewers. The unsewered areas would
be provided with separate sanitary sewer systems, the more densely populated
areas being served first. The sewage would be conducted to a stabilization
pond type treatment plant. The subproject would include the following:
(i) Combined Sewers: repairs and improvements to the sewers
in the Casco Viejo and new collectors;
(ii) Sanitary Sewers: construction of house connections,
laterals, street sewers and trunk mains in new
areas; and
(iii) Treatment Plant: stabilization pond.



- 14 -
TABLE 3                   PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
--------B$ million ------   -------US$ million-------
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign        Total
Construction
Rural Component              12.0     64.0       76.0    0.60      3.20        3.80
Potosi Subproject             6.0     18.0       24.0    0.30      0.90        1.20
Sucre Subproject             16.0     64.0       80.0    0.80      3.20        4.00
Engineering and               4.0      2.0        6.0    0.20      0.10        0.30
Administration 1/        16.0       -         16.0    0.80       -          0.80
Base Cost Estimate           54.0    148.0      202.0    2.70      7.40       10.10
Technical Assistance          2.8      0.6        4.0    0.14      0.03        0.20
Physical Contingencies 2/   8.0       22.0       30.0    0.40      1.10        1.50
Price Contingencies 3/       12.0     52.0       64.0    0.60      2.60        3.20
Total Project Cost
Before Interest          76.8    222.6       300.0    3.84    11.13        15.00
Interest during
Construction              0.0      28.0       28.0    0.0       1.40        1.40
TOTAL             76.8    250.6      328.0    3.84    12.54        16.40
To be Financed
by IBRD loan 4/                                       0.37    11.13        11.50
Notes
Estimates are based on October 1975 prices.
1/ Engineering and Administration estimated at: Rural component - 16%
Urban component - 107.
2/ Physical contingencies estimated at: Rural component - 10%
Urban component - 15%
3/ For basis of calculation of price contingencies, see Annex 4.
4/ The IBRD loan will finance 100% of the estimated foreign exchange cost
and US$0.37 million of local consultancy costs.



- 15 -
Consultants for Technical Assistance and Engineering
4.14      The project costs include provision for an estimated 91 man/months
of consultant services, 47 for technical assistance, 44 for engineering
designs. Individual consultants and firms will be employed for the technical
assistance program, for details see Annex 2, page 5 and for engineering design
and supervision, see Annex 2, pages 3 and 4. The technical assistance program
would be carried out by local consultants with the exception of the assignment
to train DIU staff in project evaluation for which it is intended to recruit
an individual expert from a neighboring South American country who would be
familiar with Bank practices. With the exception of the foreign advisor
(US$4,000 per month), the average fee per man/month for consultants is US$2,000.
The estimated total cost for consultants is US$400,000: US$173,000 for
technical assistance and US$227,000 for engineering.
Cost Estimates
4.15      The total cost of the proposed works is estimated to be about
US$15.0 million, as shown in Table 3. Interest on loans during construction
amounts to US$1.4 million, making a total estimated financing requirement of
US$16.4 million. An analysis of construction costs is shown in Annex 2.
Procurement
4.16      All contracts for materials would be awarded under international
competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
procurement. Bolivian manufacturers would be given a 15% margin of prefer-
ence of the c.i.f. value or the applicable customs duty, whichever is the
lower. The only items expected to be won by local suppliers are small diameter
plastic pipe (up to 1" diameter) and cement. All contracts for consulting
services would be awarded to qualified consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.17      CORPAGUAS would carry out its works through local competitive bid-
ding, force account and community participation. In very isolated communi-
ties where CORPAGUAS experience indicates that contractors would not be
interested in bidding or would inflate their prices, CORPAGUAS would build
the system by force account. In Potosi and Sucre the works would be awarded
after local competitive bidding. Foreign firms are not expected to bid for
the civil works but would not be precluded from doing so.
Disbursements
4.18      Disbursements would be made for 100% of the foreign exchange cost
of imported equipment, such as pipe, meters, pumps and related equipment.
Funds would be disbursed against the cost of locally procured materials and
civil works for the foreign exchange component at the rate of 60%.



- 16 -
4.19      The foreign exchange component of local costs varies with the type
of material and amount of civil works.
4.20      Disbursements for consultants engaged for the technical assistance
program or for engineering will be for 100% of the foreign and US$0.37 for
local consultancy costs. Retroactive financing of up to US$100,000 is recom-
mended for engineering designs prepared by consultants for the ELAPAS sewer
subproject prior to loan signature.
4.21      Surplus loan funds, if any, would be reallocated to other sub-
projects within the total project as approved by the Bank. The urban compo-
nent is expected to be disbursed in 3 years and the rural component in 4
years. The closing date for the loan has been agreed as June 30, 1981.
Project Supervision and Administration
4.22      Contract administration and construction supervision for the rural
component would be done by the staff of CORPAGUAS who have successfully per-
formed similar work in the past. Detailed design, cost estimates, tender docu-
ments and supervision for the works to be carried out on the Sucre and Potosi
water systems would be prepared by the technical staffs of AAPOS and ELAPAS
as well as qualified consultants hired on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank.
Environmental Aspects
4.23      The CORPAGUAS subproject would improve and extend piped water
systems to about 70 rural communities, providing them with adequate quan-
tities of safe, easily accessible water. This would eliminate the need
to use small amounts of contaminated water and would improve the general
health and hygiene of the inhabitants. The communities are dispersed in dry,
cold climates, so that wastewater disposal is not a problem.
4.24      The AAPOS and ELAPAS water supply subprojects would provide a
continuous supply of safe water, eliminate rationing, and extend services to
the low-income areas of Sucre and Potosi. The sewerage subproject for Sucre
would reduce the health hazards in the city and adjacent areas where irriga-
tion water has been subject to pollution. In Potosi, the sewer system is
being extended by the municipality.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The proposed project is justified both by the tangible economic
benefits which will follow from the extension of water supply, though some
of these are unquantifiable, and by the contribution made to the development
of sector policies (see Section II).



- 17 -
Rural Component - Economic Benefits
5.02      There is little meaningful data with which to measure the economic
benefit of a supply of potable water in rural areas. The most important
benefit of bettering village water supplies is an improvement in health
which recent studies suggest is not measurable. 1/ Similarly, the potential
benefits of increased productivity and decreased urban migration are not
quantifiable. Where a village lacks any community organization, the creation
of a CWC can be considered as a step in the rural development process. Fur-
thermore, a habit of paying cash would be introduced into areas where a barter
system now predominates. The economic justification rests on the improvement
in public health.
Selection of Projects
5.03      The National Plan for village water supply in Bolivia has as its
main objectives the provision of better living conditions for the rural poor
and the reduction of water-borne or water-related diseases. Thus, during
the first stage of the National Plan, water systems were constructed in the
larger centers where these conditions were more easily recognized. The second
stage includes many small communities (67% of the first 35 systems are for
populations under 1,500) where community interest is the most significant
factor in project selection. Villagers are required to form a CWC and to
contribute cash and labor to the construction. Additionally, CORPAGUAS
selects projects on the basis of least cost and engineering designs which
simplify operation and maintenance--gravity systems being used wherever
possible.
Urban Component - Potosi
Water Supply Requirements
5.04      The present state of water supply in Potosi and Sucre is described
in Section IV and Annex 1. The two cities were selected from four projects
for various reasons: in Potosi, low service levels and erratic supply justify
investment, and the absence of water meters presented an opportunity to
introduce a stepped tariff which would give a degree of income transfer to
the urban poor. As neither production nor consumption is metered, future
demand has been estimated largely on the evidence of areas in the city which
have no piped service or standpipe service. Consumption from new connections
is estimated at 20 cubic meters per month since new consumers live mainly in
poor areas of the city. Population growth is estimated at 1.5% per annum
which is lower than other Bolivian cities. Potosi is, however, a high-altitude,
cold, bleak city with little attraction for migration from rural areas, and in
the past the population has fallen with the decline of mineral production.
Thus the estimate is thought reasonable. In 1980, the population is fore-
casted at 81,000 with service levels of 83% for water.
1/   Measurement of the Health Benefits of Investments in Water Supply, Bank
Report PUN-20, January 1976.



- 18 -
5.05      The Bolivian State Mining Company (COMIBOL) has a program to re-
equip one of its plants and requires an untreated water supply of 40 lps
(1.2 million cubic meters a year), representing 40% of the estimated con-
sumption for 1978.
Need to Increase Water Supply
5.06      The additional water sources are from dams constructed in the
sixteenth century and now not used or only partially used. The next alter-
native to the proposed Pati-Pati/San Jose Scheme is to increase the capacity
of the San Sebastian impoundment by the construction of a dam in a tributary
lagoon, with a connecting tunnel to the San Ildefonso Dam. This work has an
estimated cost of US$1.08 million at 1975 prices. An analysis of the projects
and the forecasted growth of demand suggest that, provided the leak detection
and repair program is executed to reduce the level of losses from 62% to 25%
by 1980, the construction of the San Sebastian Dam can be deferred until 1984.
The proposed project is the least-cost solution.
Sucre - Water Supply Requirement
5.07      The needs in Sucre are to protect the Rio Ravelo supply canal, to
reduce interruptions in supply, to increase water pressure and to extend
water supply and sewerage services to the major part of the town. There is
no other adequate source of water besides the Rio Ravelo. The only alterna-
tive means of transporting water would be to construct a continuous tunnel
through the mountains to replace the canal and short tunnels. No cost esti-
mates were prepared for such a tunnel since such construction would be greatly
in excess of the US$0.3 million proposed to enclose parts of the canal and
construct short tunnels.
5.08      Average consumption from existing connections is expected to
increase from 27 cubic meters a mn[,Lh to 32 cubic meters per month during the
project period because water pressure and availability of service will be more
constant and sewerage service will be extended. The population of Sucre is
estimated to reach 63,000 by 1980 (a growth rate of 2.5% per annum) when
82% would have water service and 80% sewerage service. These estimates are
thought reasonable.
5.09      The proposed charges needed to pay for the Project involve substan-
tial increases in monthly water bills, and tariff structures will be developed
so that the increased charges fall more heavily on higher volume consumers.
The basic monthly charge for a minimum level of consumption will be kept as
low as possible. This will bring about a degree of income transfer since
the poor will be shielded by lower percentage increases in the basic monthly
charge.
Return on Investment
5.10      The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) for the water supply element of
the urban subprojects is estimated at 6.1% for Potosi and 9.5% for Sucre,
using the future tariffs and charges proposed in Section VI.



- 19 -
5.11      The proposed charges for water service in both cities would cover
the costs of operation and maintenance, debt service on the proposed loans
and the generation of some capital for future development. These charges
would represent a significant increase in monthlv accounts to users, and this
would be the first occasion in Bolivia that water charges covered all such
costs. By 1983 the average charges per cubic meter would approach the
long-run marginal cost of water provided by tl,e .'roject. It is likely that
high-consumption users would be paying marginal rates :t or above the marginal
cost.
Average Water Charge DO per cu. meter-1983 Prices
Potosi         Sucre
Projected average charge
Long-run marginal cost
at a discount rate of 8%                   4.2           8.6
Economic benefits would be higher if a measurement could be made of the
benefits from an uninterrupted water supply and the improvement in environment
and health conditions.
5.12      There are a number of untested features:
Rural Component
(i)  The program timetable shown in Annex 1 would require
CORPAGUAS to build 24 systems in 1978; the highest
total in any previous year was 18. There is a risk
that CORPAGUAS may not be able to cope with the addi-
tional work. By using standard designs and bulk
purchase of materials in standard sizes and by decen-
tralizing some of the construction work to CODEPO, this
risk is rated moderate and acceptable;
(ii)  Delays in the registration of CWCs and in completing
legal agreements between CORPAGUAS, the CWCs and DDOs
may delay specific projects. Because the Project
permits CORPAGUAS to substitute systems for those
listed in Annex 2, Page 1, the risk is rated average
and acceptable;
Potosi
(iii)  The paucity of data about the water system in Potosi
may have caused errors in forecasting production and
consumption, and a combination of errors could lead to
water shortage and rationing. The project works have
been scheduled to minimize this risk which is rated
acceptable; the alternative would be the immediate



- 20 -
construction of a dam at an additional cost of over B$20
million (US$1 million) which cannot be justified at this
time;
(iv) The management of AAPOS is reluctant to increase water
rates or to introduce meters for fear of strong public
reaction in this mining town. The proposed increases
have the support of CODEPO and will be explained to
the inhabitants by a public relations program.  The
risk is rated acceptable since the alternative is
inadequate service.
VI. FINANCES
6.01      This chapter reviews the financial history of the water authorities
concerned, and outlines the policy changes to be implemented with this proj-
ect. Annex 4 gives the assumptions underlying the financial projections.
Annexes 5, 6 and 7 show the financial projections and monitoring indexes
for AAPOS and ELAPAS. Examination of the finances of AAPOS and ELAPAS has
been hindered by lack of data, particularly for AAPOS. The financial infor-
mation has been based on data available and many reasonable assumptions; this
will entail supervision and revision as the project progresses.
Rural Component - CORPAGUAS
6.02      The financial records of CORPAGUAS are kept in the manner of a
Government Department--accounting for expenditures against budgetary alloca-
tions, and are subject to annual audit by independent external auditors.  Its
output passes to local communities in the form of completed water systems.
CORPAGUAS finances the construction of systems from both budgetary appropria-
tions and external loan funds.
6.03      The Government will provide CORPAGUAS with funds through normal
budget procedures, and CORPAGUAS will design each rural system and have
it constructed. Such funds will cover about 20% of the total project cost,
and during negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that
CORPAGUAS will be provided with adequate funds to execute the Project. The
Government will carry the debt service obligation of the proposed Bank loan
but will not make any grants towards the construction costs. The community,
through its CWC, will provide about 15% of the Project cost from its village
in cash and donated labor. The value of the donated labor is estimated at
about 3% of the project cost.  The rural component would be financed by
contributions as follows:



- 21 -
% of Project
Total Cost /1       Cash Cost /2
Community                 15                   12
CORPAGUAS                 20                   21
IBRD Loan                 65                   67
Total               100                  100
/1   Including value of donated labor.
/2   Excluding value of donated labor.
6.04      When IDB loan funds were used, villages were required to pay for
operation, maintenance, interest on the loan, and sometimes part of the
amortization. As the debt service of the IDB loan is undertaken by the Govern-
ment, the payment of debt service was intended to provide CORPAGUAS with funds
for future investments.
6.05      It is now recognized that the policy of requiring the communities
to repay part of the debt service was overly optimistic especially for poor
communities in the Altiplano whose villagers are too poor to pay more
than operation and maintenance since cash incomes may be as low as US$45 a year.
For this reason the Tariff Decree exempts communities under 10,000 from debt
service while permitting exceptions to the rule where CORPAGUAS has reason
to believe that the inhabitants of a community have the capacity to pay e.g.
where water was formerly supplied at a high cost by tanker.
6.06      Although the total debt service for the rural component will be
borne by the Government, this will not be onerous, and by decentralizing
responsibility for construction to selected DDOs, the Government will be able
to direct its scarce funds to poorer parts of the country.
Urban Component
6.07      Until recently there was no clear financial policy for urban sector
construction, and extensions of systems were financed from a varietv of
sources, largely external, by concessionary loans (e.g. the Federal Republit
of Germany loan of US$23.0 million to the city of La Paz for 30 years at 2%
interest). At the same time charges rarely covered the costs of operational
maintenance. Sewerage services are operated by the municipality (except in
Cochabamba and Sucre) and are financed from municipal revenues which include a
sewerage service charge based on property values. Since the property listings
are not well maintained and values are rarely updated, this tax provides only
a small, uncertain and inadequate revenue. As part of the Government's
attempt to reform the finances of the sector, the National Tariff Standard
defines the price policies which it ultimately hopes to apply to all centers
with populations over 10,000 (see Annex 8 for details). The Tariff Standard's
goal is to ensure that the consumer pays according to consumption and user's
category, at rates which would generate revenues sufficient to cover operation,



- 22 -
maintenance and debt service. In addition, the same tariff decree which
required the water undertakings in the three largest cities (La Paz, Cochabamba
and Santa Cruz) to generate some capital for future investment (the amount is
not specified) has now been revised to include cities with over 50,000 inhabi-
tants, i.e. Oruro, Potosi and Sucre.
6.08      It will not be an easy matter to achieve the National Tariff Stand-
ards. Since water supply is regarded in Bolivia as a "free service" of
the Government, the scale of increases in average charges is bound to provoke
public resistance. It is hoped to achieve the revised national standards for
water charges in Potosi and Sucre during this project by providing more
reliable service, in Potosi by extending the service area of the city, and in
Sucre by the provision of a sewerage service. It is not considered feasible
to attain the desired tariff standard for sewerage service in Sucre in the
immediate future, and a subsidy is planned. Thus the Government and ELAPAS
will establish a tax on the profits of the cement plant located in Sucre to
subsidize the sewer system. A similar charge is levied on the output of
Bolivia's other major cement plant for the benefit of the water undertaking
in La Paz. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would
provide the Bank with details of the proposed decree and information on how
the subsidy might be phased out and replaced by a property tax. Any necessary
measures will be enacted prior to any disbursements for the Sucre subproject.
Urban Undertakings - AAPOS
6.09      AAPOS was created in 1972 to take over responsibility for the water
supply system in the city of Potosi from CODEPO, but it has not functioned as
an independent body. It is subsidized by CODEPO, which pays the full debt
service for previous loans. The rates charged for the supply of water service
are extremely low and were last increased in 1967. Eighty-nine percent of the
4,100 connections are charged a fixed monthly fee of B$10 (US$0.50). Some 5,000
water meters have been purchased but none have been installed. A substantial
part of the past revenue has come from charges for new connections.
ELAPAS
6.10      ELAPAS has functioned independently of the Municipality of Sucre
since July 1972, and maintains autonomy from the Municipality and from the
Departmental Development Committee of Chuquisaca (CODECH). Up to now,
revenues were sufficient to cover operating and maintenance costs. Previous
capital need has been funded by soft term loans from CODECH and the Central
Government. ELAPAS has practically completed a program of installing water
meters to all users--the first city in Bolivia to carry out such a policy, and
users are charged according to the volume consumed (Annex 8). At present
there is no direct charge for sewerage service. An estimated summary of the
financial records for recent years is given in Table 4.



- 23 -
Table 4: ESTIMATED PAST FINANCIAL RESULTS
B$ million
AAPOS           ELAPAS
1974    1975     1974    1975
Revenues from sale of water              0.62    0.64      3.20    3.02
Other revenue                            0.30    0.49      0.00    0.24
Total revenue                            0.92    1.13      3.20    3.07
Costs                                    1.24    1.57     3.59    4.41
Depreciation                             0.58    0.84      1.27    1.79
Net Surplus (Deficit)                   (0.89)  (1.29)   (1.66)  (2.92)
Financial Rate of Return (%)           -4.40   -4.40    -9.00   -8.70
Average revenue per cubic meter (B$)   0.79    0.92        1.56    1.62
Average cost per cubic meter (B$)        1.06    1.28      1.75    2.19
Date of last change in tariff              Jan. 1967         Jan. 1972
6.11      Both organizations would be provided with technical assistance from
local consultants to improve their accounting procedures.  ELAPAS needs a
management information system based on commercial accounting records. AAPOS
requires considerable assistance to improve its accounting system, to develop
records of meter installation and consumption, as well as to install sound
billing procedures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AAPOS
and ELAPAS will produce annual financial accounts from the financial year
beginning January 1, 1977, in a form appropriate to a commercial utility.
Future Finances
6.12      The Government's financial policies (para. 2.10) will be implemented
during this project in Potosi and Sucre. This would be the first time that
the "self-financing" principle has been applied in Bolivia. The cities rank
fifth and sixth in size of the 6 cities with over 50,000 inhabitants. None
of the undertakings in other cities raise sufficient revenues to pay operating
costs, and all receive subsidies from either the municipality or the DDO.
ELAPAS in Sucre is the only undertaking which operates a sewerage system --
the others being municipally owned and subsidized.
6.13      Funds will be provided to AAPOS and ELAPAS by the respective Depart-
mental Development Committees. For the purpose of directly focusing attention
on the cash position, a cash generation covenant has been designed. During
negotiations it was agreed that AAPOS and ELAPAS would gradually increase
tariffs as follows:
(i) Not later than December 1, 1976 and from time to time
thereafter AAPOS and ELAPAS would take all such action
as shall be necessary or advisable to set and maintain
tariffs for the sale of water at such levels as will produce
revenues sufficient to cover:



- 24 -
(a) Beginning in calendar year 1977, at least operat-
ing expenses (excluding depreciation of fixed assets
and other non-cash operating charges), debt service
payments (excluding interest on the proceeds of the Bank -
loan) and all taxes and payments in lieu of taxes;
(b) Beginning in calendar year 1978, at least the
expenses and payments referred to in (a) above,
including interest on the proceeds of the Bank
loan;
(c)  Beginning in calendar year 1979, at least (1) the
expenses and payments referred to in (b) above, (2)
the cost of any minor expansion for the current
year, and (3) ten percent of the estimated average
annual expenses for any major expansion during a
period of three calendar years including the current
year and the two years immediately following it.
For purposes of this paragraph "major expansion"
means any project or projects, the aggregate expen-
ditures for which are expected to exceed in any one
year US$100,000 equivalent for AAPOS (or US$209,000
for ELAPAS).
(ii)  In addition AAPOS and ELAPAS will review before July 1 of each
year on the basis of realistic forecasts the adequacy of
tariffs to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (i) for
the current year and the year immediately following it, furnish
to the Bank the results of such review and afford the Bank the
opportunity to comment thereon.
6.14      To help AAPOS attain the desired revenues, it will be required as
a condition of disbursement to present the Bank with an action plan (i) to
install water meters or water control devices to about 80% of its users and
(ii) to introduce charges based on metered water consumption. Having been
approved, the plan should be promptly implemented. The water charges would
be in accordance with the National Tariff Standard (as amended) for class
one cities (Annex 8). The specific measures required to attain the increases
required for FY1977 were agreed upon during negotiations.
6.15      AAPOS has indicated its willingness to begin installing meters
to its larger users in 1976, and when this is done those users can be charged
according to consumption. Metering will enable AAPOS to increase revenues by
the high percentages shown below without having to increase charges to the
urban poor by the same percentages as will be required from the wealthier
users.
6.16      The projected increases in revenues, average water tariffs, and
total average revenues are shown in Annexes 5 and 6, Page 1. The following
summary illustrates the size of the increases projected:



- 25 -
Estimated Average Charge                                Potosi
per cu. meter of water             1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
B$                       0.5      0.5      1.0     1.5      2.3      2.8
US$                     (0.02)  (0.02)  (0.05)  (0.07)  (0.11)  (0.14)
% increase               -        4.0    84.0    50.0    53.0    21.0
Estimated Average Charge                                Sucre
per cu. meter of water             1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
B$                       1.5      1.6      2.6     4.8      5.5      5.8
US$                     (0.07)  (0.08)  (0.13)  (0.24)  (0.27)  (0.29)
% increase                -       6.0    63.0    86.0       4.0    10.0
6.17      The projected revenues would result in Financial Rates of Return in
1983 of 4.0% in Potosi and 5.0% in Sucre, calculated on the estimated net
revalued fixed assets used in water supply. These rates are reasonable, and,
given the relative poverty of Bolivia, the small rate of population growth,
and the present tariff levels, they represent an acceptable achievement.
6.18      The Financing Plan (Table 5) is based on the following assumptions:
(i) The proposed IBRD loan of US$11.5 million (B$230.0 million)
is assumed to carry an interest rate of 8.9% for a period
of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace;
(ii)  CODEPO will provide up to US$0.5 million (B$10 million) as
a grant to AAPOS for the Potosi project;
(iii) CODECHO will provide up to US$2.0 million (B$40 million) as
a grant to ELAPAS for the Sucre subproject;
(iv)  Villagers benefitting from community water systems will pro-
vide 15% of the total project cost by cash, donated labor or
donated materials (equivalent to 12% of the cash cost when
the estimated amount of donated labor is deducted from the
project cost estimate).
6.19      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will cause funds to be provided to meet any cost overruns and to meet
any additional costs resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. The
Government will assume the exchange risk on the Bank loan.
6.20      The accounts of ELAPAS and AAPOS are subject to audit by the govern-
ment auditors. The accounts of CORPAGUAS are audited by independent auditors.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the accounts of the three
executing agencies will be subject to audit by independent auditors approved
by the Bank on terms acceptable to the Bank, and submitted not later than 16
weeks after the close of the financial year.



Table 5: ESTIMATED FINANCING PLAN, 1976-1981
(In US$ millions)
CORPAGUAS         AAPOS          ELAPAS    %
D.I.U.     Rural       %   PotosT    %   Sucre            TOTAL      %
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Proposed Project Cost                   0.04       6.73              2.00           6.28           15.0    87.2
Interest during Construction              -        0.64             0.22            0.56            1.4      8.1
Increase in Working Capital               -        0.30              0.04           0.41            0.8      4.7
Total Application                   0.04        7.67             2.24            7.25           17.2   100.0
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Proposed IBRD Loan                      0.04       4.80       63    1.68    75    5.00    69    11.5    67.0
Community Contribution                    -        0.80                -              -             0.8      4.6
Development Committee Contribution        -          -               0.50           2.00            2.5    14.5
Government Contribution                   -        2.07                -              -             2.1    12.2
Net Internal Generation                _             -               0.06           0.25            0.3   - 1.7
Total                               0.04        7.67             2.24            7.25           17.2   100.0



- 27 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(i) From the Government of Bolivia, that it will:
(a) Issue a regulation before December 31, 1976 to require
that any public entity which is seeking Bolivian or foreign
funds to finance a water supply or sewerage project for a
community of 10,000 or more will be required to obtain the
the prior approval of the Project Evaluation Unit and the
National Tariff Council (para. 3.13);
(b) Provide details and enact any measures needed to provide
an earmarked tax for a sewer subsidy in Sucre as a condi-
tion of disbursement (para. 6.08);
(c) Provide adequate budgetary funds to CORPAGUAS to cover
the Project and its normal operations (para. 6.03);
(d) Cause CODEPO and CODECHO to provide adequate funds to
AAPOS and ELAPAS for counterpart financing (para. 6.18);
(e) Provide the executing agencies with funds to meet any
cost overruns and to meet any additional costs resulting
from fluctuations in exchange rates (para. 6.19).
(ii) From CORPAGUAS, that it will:
(a) Present to the Bank plans to transfer responsibilities
for operation and maintenance and specified responsi-
bilities for construction of water and sewer systems
not later than June 30, 1978 for the departments of
Cochabamba, Oruro, La Paz and Potosi and will thereafter
promptly execute such plans (para. 3.09);
(b) Submit for Bank approval the terms and conditions of
contracts with the CWCs and guarantee agreements with
the DDOs as a condition of disbursement. Individual
contracts and agreements would be signed prior to
construction of any system (para. 3.10);
(c) Continue to use in its selection of rural communities
criteria acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.04);
(d) Engage qualified consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank for the preparation of standard
designs and operating manuals which will be presented to
the Bank for approval not later than June 30, 1978
(para. 4.05);



- 28 -
(e)  Submit to the Bank not later than 16 weeks after the
close of the financial year a set of annual accounts
prepared by independent auditors on terms acceptable
to the Bank (para. 6.20).
(iii)  From AAPOS and ELAPAS, that they will:
(a)  Produce annual accounts from the year commencing
January 1, 1977, in a form appropriate to a commer-
cial utility (para. 6.11);
(b)  As a condition of disbursement, implement increases
in the charges for water service not later than
December 1, 1976, to meet the required covenant
(para. 6.13);
(c)  Implement such increases for water services (and in
Sucre, sewerage services) after January 1977 as
required to meet the financial covenant (para. 6.13);
(d)  Effective from the financial year ending December 31,
1976, have their accounts subject to annual audit by
independent auditors approved by the Bank and submit
these to the Bank not later than 16 weeks after the
close of the financial year (para. 6.20).
(iv)  From AAPOS, that it will:
(a)  Carry out a survey and census to determine the number
of user connections and complete the survey not later
than April 30, 1977 (para. 4.09);
(b)  As a condition of disbursement, present to the Bank
an acceptable plan for the installation of water meters
or water control devices to about 80% of its users and
adopt tariffs with charges based on metered consumption
and promptly implement such plan and tariffs (para. 6.14).
7.02      Conditions of disbursement will apply only to the subproject con-
cerned.
7.03      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$11.5 million for 20
years, with a 4-1/2 year grace period on standard terms.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 12
BOLIVIA
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
EXISTING FACILITIES AND PROJECT WORKS
RURAL COMPONENT
Existing Facilities
1.        In the absence of public systems, the villagers obtain water from
shallow dug wells, springs, streams and rivers. They must often carry the
water considerable distances in open receptacles. The sources are subject
to reduced yields in the dry season and are frequently unprotected and con-
taminated. The result is unsafe water in insufficient quantities for health
and hygiene.
2.        Many villages have rudimentary systems that derive water from a
spring, stream or a well with a pump and convey the water to a central
deposit or fountain by means of open canals or small pipelines. More com-
plete systems have been built in a few villages with some distribution lines,
a few house connections, and public faucets. At best, these provide only a
limited amount of water of doubtful quality. The systems are old, poorly
maintained, and in an advanced state of deterioration.
The Subproject
3.        The subproject is the second stage of a National Plan to provide
water to approximately 600 communities in Bolivia. CORPAGUAS carried out the
first stage with a loan from IDB, and built 68 systems during the period
1968-73.
4.        Under this subproject which will take four years, CORPAGUAS will
build and improve approximately 70 systems in communities of 500 to 5,000
inhabitants, and benefit about 100,000 people. Designs, cost estimates, and
rate studies for 35 systems have been prepared. 17 have been reviewed by
the Bank and found acceptable. The rest of the systems will be designed as
the former are built, and subsequently constructed. The provisional construc-
tion schedule is:
1976    1977    1978    1979    Total
8       20       24       18       70
5.        The systems will consist of:  the development of a suitable source
such as a spring, deep well, or infiltration gallery; storage and distribution
tanks; pumping stations; distribution networks; house connections for 50-70%



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 12
of the houses; a limited number of public faucets; and chlorination facil-
ities. Gravity-type systems will be given preference over pumped systems.
When surface sources must be used and treatment is necessary, sedimentation
and slow sand filtration are provided to simplify maintenance.
6.        For each village, CORPAGUAS requires that a local organization be
established such as a committee or cooperative to represent the community and
participate in the decision to have a system, its construction and subse-
quently its operation, maintenance and collection of tariffs. Before build-
ing the system, an agreement is signed defining the responsibilities of the
community and CORPAGUAS, and establishing that rates for operation, mainte-
nance and house connections will be paid. CORPAGUAS has had extensive and
successful experience with such agreements.
7.        The design consumption ranges from 40 lpcd to 120 lpcd depending
on altitude, climate, type and size of community, local customs, the type of
source and experience with water systems in operation in the area. The lower
allowances are for the cold, high climates and the higher ones for the low
warm climates. The average is about 60 lpcd. Summary of a design for a
typical system follows:
Pazna
Background
8.        Pazna has a population of 2,307 (CORPAGIJAS census 1974).  It is a
Quechua community 90 km from Oruro, the capital of the department of the same
name. It is 3,710 meters (12,100 feet) above sea level with a cold and dry
climate. The average temperature is 130C.
9.        There is a limited cultivation of potatoes, beans, quinoa and oats
and the raising of some livestock.
10.       There are roads to Oruro, Potosi and the railroad to Oruro and Rio
Mulato. There is also telegraph and mail service.
11.       Pazna has a primary and seccndary school and a small hospital with
20 beds.
12.       The local water system was built in 1912 and is owned by the
national railroad. The water is of poor quality and very limited in quantity.
Water is collected from the Santa Rosa spring and brought to an elevated tank
at the railroad station and to six public faucets in the village.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 12
The New System
13.       The Irupata spring, with a larger yield, has been selected as the
new source of water by CORPAGUAS. The water is of good quality and no treat-
ment other than chlorination is required.
14.       The system would consist of intake works at the spring, a 4" A-C
supply line 4 km in length, a masonry storage tank with 35 m3 capacity, a
chlorinator house and chlorinator, a distribution network of 6,500 meters of
4", 3", 2" and 1-1/2" AC and PVC pipe and 450 house connections.
15.       The design consumption used was 40 liters per capita per day.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 12
SUCRE SUBPROJECT
Background
1.        The city of Sucre, capital of the Republic of Bolivia, was founded
on September 29, 1538 by the Spanish Conquistador, Don Pedro de Anzures,
Marques de Campo Redondo. It is noted for the architecture and planning of
the old center of the city where public buildings and the park are modelled
on 17th-century Paris. It houses one of the oldest universities in the
Americas. La Universidad Mayor Real y Pontifica de San Francisco Zavier
founded in 1624, the Supreme Court of Bolivia, the Arzobispado de la Plata
and the residence of his eminence, the Cardinal of Bolivia.
2.        The city is 2,750 meters (9,000 feet) above sea level and has a
mild and relatively dry climate. It is connected with the rest of the
country by highways, railroads and air. A new airport financed with depart-
mental funds is under construction.
Existing Water System
3.        The city is supplied by three sources of water.  The oldest, built
in colonial times between 1556 and 1557, collects about 5 lps of water from
springs on Cerro Sica Sica and supplies it directly by gravity to a small
number of people on the outskirts of the city such as in Villa Charcas.
4.        The Cajamarca springs were developed in 1911.  The flow varies from
6 lps in the dry season to 50 lps in the rainy season. Water from the spring
intake works is taken by a short canal and 10" cast iron pipeline to the
treatment plant. In 1940, the Cerro Sica Sica and Cajamarca systems were
joined.
5.        The Rio Ravelo is the major source of water and has a minimum flow
exceeding 500 lps. Studies to bring water from the Rio Ravelo, 60 km away,
were started in 1942 and construction of the works finished in 1951. The
facilities consist of a diversion dam, intake works, canal and pipeline, the
latter joining the Cajamarca pipeline at Santa Catalina, 11 km from the city.
In 1971-72, the canal was improved and additional transmission mains to the
treatment plant built.
6.        The conveyance facilities have a capacity of 500 lps.  The facil-
ities require continuous maintenance because they pass through mountainous
areas which are subject to landslides, causing blockages or breaks in the
canal. In addition to the open canal, there are about 7 km of pipe, many
bridges of masonry and reinforced concrete, and an inverted siphon of
cast iron pipe, 1,200 meters long. The canal system includes 2 desilting
basins, 20 small tunnels, 52 km of access roads, 50 km of telephone lines
and 5 field camps for the staff who maintain and control the supply



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 12
facilities. At 33 km, a 400 mm ductile iron cement-lined pressure line con-
ducts the water to the treatment plant.
Treatment Plant
7.         This has a capacity of 125 lps and was designed and built for staged
expansion.
8.         The raw water from the Rio Ravelo contains iron, free C02, and con-
siderable turbidity.
9.         Treatment includes aeration, flocculation with lime and alum, sedi-
mentation, rapid sand filtration with air and water backwash; pH adjustment
with lime, and chlorination.
10.       The plant has a diesel-electric plant, which produces all its power
and adequate standby equipment.
Distribution Network
11.       The distribution network in the old center of the city originally
consisted of steel pipe installed around 1911. It had a length of 20,000 mts
and ranged in size from 25mm to 200 mm. It was subject to leakage and under-
sized for the actual demands of the zone it serves. It was changed in 1976
to ductile iron pipe.
12.       The rest of the distribution network was installed in 1970 and con-
sists of cement-lined ductile iron pipe. The network is divided into three
pressure zones. There are about 6,000 connections, of which 4,762 were
metered in September 1975.
Storage
13.       Because of the danger of the interruption of the canal supply by
landslides, ELAPAS has three storage tanks, each of 2,000 m3 capacity, to
serve the three pressure zones.
14.       There is also a small 50 m3 tank to serve a high area.
Existing Sewer System
15.       The existing sewer system is of the combined type and was built in
1942. It serves the Casco Viejo of the city, with 24,300 inhabitants, about
45% of the population. The house connections are 6" in diameter.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 12
16.       The street sewers of 8" to 24" in diameter collected the storm
water and sanitary sewage and discharge into 4 trunk sewers ranging in size
from 24" to 72", and then into the collectors 1.2 x 1.2 meters and 4.0 x
4.0 meters in size. These collectors discharge into the Rio Quirpinchaca on
the western edge of the city.
Waste Disposal Problems
17.       The city has 3 natural basins which drain northwest, into which
domestic and industrial wastes are discharged.
18.       The wastes from the Yacimientos Petroliferas Fiscales Bolivianos
(YPFB) oil refinery and its housing area are presently being discharged un-
treated into the nearest water course which flows through irrigated areas and
into the San Juanillo Lake whose waters are used for irrigation. Many of the
crops are vegetables, and there is a serious health hazard.
19.       Part of the city's wastes flows into another stream and into the
Juanillo lake. En route to the lake some of the waste water is used for
irrigation and watering livestock. So much waste and sediment has reached
the lake that it is quite shallow.
20.       After the lake, the water flows into the Quebrada Tinta Mayu which
receives additional wastes from the Barrios Fabril and Empleados.
21.       Several springs discharge into the Quebrada whose waters are used
for washing clothes and irrigation.
22.       These waters eventually reach the Rio Quirpinchaca which borders
the western side of the city. The main outfall of Sucre discharges into this
river where the road to the airport crosses it. A short distance downstream
there are three intakes where the river water is diverted for irrigation.
The Water Supply System
The Supply
23.       The project would consist of improvements and repairs to the Ravelo
Canal, which is the principal supply for the city. The intake works and cer-
tain sections of the canal would be protected by retaining walls or covering
as required, the anchorages of the main siphon would be strengthened, and
specialized masonry work would be executed on the canal-supporting structures.
Thirteen short sections would be relocated or lined. In four areas where un-
stable soil conditions exist, the canal would be rerouted by the construction
of four tunnels. ELAPAS has considerable experience in all such work and no
difficulties are expected in the execution of the project.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 12
The Treatment Plant
24.       Spare parts and replacements for some of the equipment and values
in the plant would be provided.
The Distribution Network and Storage
25.       Because of the risk of blockages in the canal and interruptions in
supply--which may still occur after this subproject--it is thought desirable
to install additional storage capacity to give up to 48 hours supply. A stor-
age tank will be built with a capacity of 2,000 m3 and be located in the low
pressure zone.
26.       The distribution network would be extended to the new areas of the
city in accordance with a Master Plan. It would consist of ductile iron and
polyvinyl chloride pipe. It would include house connections and meters.
Sewerage
27.       The Development Committee of Chuquisaca has financed the studies
and final design of the sewers for the city of Sucre. The trunk sewers and
collectors in the old part of the city will be repaired and continue to func-
tion as combined sewers. Studies will provide for overflow and diversion
structures so that during the dry season the sewage will be conducted to the
separate main collectors for the new sanitary sewer system and during the
rainy season excess flows will be conducted to the river and the balance to
the sanitary sewer system. The tributary areas with the densest popula-
tions will be provided in a first stage with separate sanitary sewers to
conduct the sewage to new collectors which will eventually be conducted to
a suitable site for treatment and a treatment plant.
28.       Trunk mains, street sewers, and laterals would be built in selected
areas according to density and need as defined in the first stage of the
master plan.
29.       Locally manufactured pipe utilizing cement from the Sucre plant,
and locally produced lime and bricks will be used. However, some asphalt
will need to be imported for repaving some of the streets.
30.       The subproject for Sucre includes:
Water Supply
(a) Replacement and increased size of the distribution network
in the Casco Viejo of the city--already under construction;



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 12
(b) Stabilization of the Ravelo Canal. This will be done
by means of protective masonry and concrete work and
tunnels;
(c) Extension of the distribution network to the newer parts
of the city;
(d) Improvements and expansion of the supply lines, treatment
plant, and storage facilities of the system; and
(e) Installation of house connections and water meters.
Sewerage
(a) Construction of sanitary sewers, house connections, and
trunk mains for the new areas of the city;
(b) Repairs and improvements of the sewer system in the Casco
Viejo of the city;
(c) Treatment plant; and
(d) Final design (being done by Centro Professional Multi-
disciplinario de la Paz).
Technical Assistance
31.       Short-term consultants to provide on the spot training and to im-
prove the accounting and financial management of the institution would be
provided.



ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 12
POTOSI SUBPROJECT
Background
32.       Potosi is the oldest and most economically important city in
Bolivia. It was founded in 1545 by Captain Juan de Villaroel of Spain for
the exploitation of the rich mineral deposits (mainly silver) of the Cerro
Rico of Potosi which continues until today. At one time practially all the
silver coins of the Spanish Empire were minted there. As a result of these
activities the city grew rapidly, reaching its peak in 1690 and then, because
of political upheavals and decrease in mining, the population declined as
shown in the following table:
POPULATION OF POTOSI
Year            Population
1690              160,000
1719               60,000
1800                8,000
1900               20,000
1929               28,000
1934               35,000
1937               38,000 (Census)
1945               46,000 (Census)
1950               45,800
1965               65,000 (Census)
1975               75,000 (Estimated)
33.       The city is one of the highest in the world, lying at an elevation
of 3,986 meters above sea level.  It has a rather bleak and forbidding aspect
compared to Sucre. On the outskirts of the city there is practically no
vegetation other than the tough Altiplano bunch grass and within the city
only a few shrubs and trees that must be carefully tended and protected from
the rigorous climate. The climate is dry and cold with an average tempera-
ture less than 50F and temperatures that go below freezing.
34.       There is a limited rainy season lasting from December to March
during which an average of about 400 mm occurs. Occasionally there are light
snows and hailstorms.
35.       The University of Potosi is located here.  The city is connected
with Antofagasta by a railroad built to export ore, and with Sucre and
La Paz by railroad, highway, and air. It is served by telegraph and radio.



ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 12
36.       The principal minerals now being mined, in order of importance, are
tin, silver, zinc, wolfram, copper, antimony, and sulfur. Small processing
plants have been built by the Corporacion Minera de Bolivia (COMIBOL).
Existing Facilities
37.       The first supply of water for the inhabitants was obtained from
several small springs on the slopes of the mountains around the city. By
1572, the mining activity had increased so greatly, that it was decided
to process the ore hydraulically. To obtain this power, a series of dams
and canals was built in the valleys high above the city.
38.       In 1574, King Philip II of Spain, by royal decree assigned a force
of 20,000 Indians who labored for 43 years to construct and maintain these
facilities. The dams were repaired in 1613-1616 and in 1930-1936. The
system was expanded under a loan from IDB in 1967-1973. Some of these works
are in use today (Chalviri Dam for example).
39.       The city is supplied with water from two systems of lakes, those of
the Chalviri basin and San Ildefonso basin, where a new dam has recently been
built. The dam is not yet in service. During certain periods of the year,
water is also obtained from the San Sebastian Basin.
40.       There are five systems:
Chalviri Basin:        Illimani and Chalviri Lakes
San Ildefonso Basin:  San Pablo and San Ildefonso Lakes
San Sebastian Basin:  Muniza and San Sebastian Lakes
San Jose Basin:        Huacani, Providencia, San Jose Lakes
Pati-Pati Basin:       Santa Lucia, Atocha, Candelaria Lakes
41.       The principal lake is Chalviri with a capacity of 2,480,000 m3,
a depth of 7.5 meters and a drainage area of 16.5 km2. It is formed by a
dike 9 meters high, made of three parallel masonry walls with a compacted
earth fill. The intake is of 12" diameter steel pipe with a gate valve. The
capacity has been increased to 3,050,000 m3 by raising the spillway 70 cm.
42.       The second lake in importance is San Ildefonso with a capacity of
2,000,000 m3 and a drainage area of 9.3 km2. The dam height was increased
70 cm under the IDB loan.
43.       The next system in order of amount of water supplied is San
Sebastian with a drainage area of 13 m2. It is used only during the rainy
season.  San Sebastian accumulates 288,000 m3 and Muniza 180,000 m3.
44.       The San Jose system has a drainage area of 7.5 m2 and three low
dikes, Llama Miku, Buena Ventura and San Jose. There are two lakes, Huacani
and Providencia (practially abandoned). The storage capacity is as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 12
San Jose Dikes          40,000 m3
Huacani Lakes           320,000 m3
45.       The Pati-Pati system has a drainage area of 6 km2.  It contains
three lakes connected to San Jose by means of a masonry canal.
Proposed Water Supply Facilities
46.       The proposed subproject for Potosi is the second stage of a 20-year
program "Improvement of the Water System of the City of Potosi." The first
stage was completed under a loan from IDB.
47.       The subproject is necessary to remedy the present deficient service
and to meet the residential and industrial growth of the city. There is no
firm data on production or consumption, and no population census since 1965;
consequently, the consumption and production figures for the subproject are
based on best estimates by the AAPOS and Bank staff. Hydrological data to
determine variations in the monthly availability of water and storage require-
ments are lacking.
48.       The subproject provides for the early installation of source meters,
a census of consumers and metering of 80% of the consumer connections. As
information becomes available it may be necessary to revise the projections.
Additional water would be obtained from small impoundments and conveyance
losses reduced by lining and covering canals.
49.       The subproject would include the following works and studies:
Intake Works: The existing dikes at Pati-Pati and San Jose would
be repaired, and infiltration galleries would be constructed to
collect groundwater. During colonial times as much as 100 lps
were obtained from these sources.
Conveyance Improvements: The open canal that conducts water from
the Pati-Pati and San Jose drainage basins to the Milner Tank
would be covered and lined to eliminate losses. The total length
is 12,600 meters.
Treatment Plant Expansion: To match the increased supply, the
filter area will be increased and a settling basin will be
added.
Distribution Network: The distribution network will be extended
to unserved areas of the city, the fringe areas, and several
satellite communities, thus increasing the area served by
5.4 km2.



ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 12
Leak Detection and Repair: A survey to locate and determine the
magnitude of the leaks would be carried out, and the major leaks
would be repaired first.
Census of Users: A house-to-house survey to verify the location
and number of water and sewer connections and public faucets.
Metering and House Connections: Meters would be installed at all
the sources, on all the existing connections and new house connec-
tions for users in the additional areas served by the extension
of the distribution network.
Technical Assistance: Consultant advisory services and training
to improve the organization, management, and financial condition
of AAPOS would be provided. Tariff studies would also be carried
out.
Public Relations: An intensive and continuing program to inform
the public about the benefits of the subproject and the need for
metering and tariffs will be carried out by AAPOS with the assis-
tance of advisors. This is necessary to assure the goodwill and
cooperation of the public.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 o. 5
BOLIVIA
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ItURAL COMPONEtT
SCH      OF WS
FIRST Zj S9UBPROJECTS
(In B$ Millions)
CORPAGUAS      DEPARTMENT &        ACTUAL          FUTURE      BASE COST
FILE NO.       COMMUNITY        POPULATION      POPULATION   ESTIMATE
(Year 2000)
POTOSI
5          Chayanta             1813            2687       1,114,887
6          Pocoata               964            1380       1,247,954
7          Ocuri                1265            1690         893,365
8          Otavi                 309             685         633,260
9          Porco                1070            1530         880,008
10          Llica                2146            4320       1,621,047
11          Torotoro              515             736         665,108
12          Macha                1172            1674       1,294,351
ORURO
13          Tomas Barron         3442            5507       3,923,694
14          Caracollo            1527            2608       2,290,631
37          Pazna                2307            4235       1,520,889
LA PAZ
15          Palca                 805            1232         855,364
16          Yanacachi             822            1175         619,122
17          Irupana              2212            4063       1,241,357
18          Quime                3120            5604       1,716,645
19          Tipuani              1416            2020       1,061,594
20          Umala                 376             537          974,553
21          Cangalli              264            1000          539,003
22          Guanay               1241            1972       1,698,344
23          Puerto Acosta        1672            2390       1,368,715
24          Stgo De Huata         870            1246          790,407
25          Ayo Ayo               632             968          750,113
26          Calamarca             506             723          617,626
39          Charana               400             572          846,338
40          Pelechuco             627             896          298,533
COCHABAMBA
27          Vacas                1079            1726        1,565,463
28          Anzaldo               863            1227          892,352
29          Cocapata              481             583          470,972
30          Tapacari              721            1029          952,112
31          Tiquipaya            1124            1547        1,257,804
32          Arani                2633            3762        2,136,828
33          Santivanez            633             904        1,044,612
34          Capinota             2960            4736        4,595,054
35          Cliza                3626            5182        6,157,952
38          Colomi               1830            2438        1,157,162
TOTAL:           47,443           74,584       49,693,219
/  The 35 projects scheduled are those for which CORPAGUAS
has completed studies. Should delays occur in obtaining
community participation, subprojects for other communities
will be substituted.



ANNEX 2
PAGE 2 OF 5
B O L I V I A
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CORPAGUAS
RURAL COMPONENT
SUBPROJECT COST ESTIMATES I/
----------B$ million ------       ---------US$ million----------
LOCAL     FOREIGN      TOTAL      LOCAL      FOREIGN      TOTAL
Construction of 70 systems           12.0         64.0        76.0      0.60         3.20        3.80
Administration and Engineering       13.4         --          13.4      0.67         --          0.67
Base Cost                         25.4         64.0        89.4      1.27         3.20        4.47
Technical Assistance                  1.0           --         1.0      0.05          --         0.05
Physical Contingencies                3.0          9.6        12.6      0.15         0.48        0.63
Price Contingencies                   2.8         28.8        31.6      0.14         1.44        1.58
Total Project Cost                32.2        102.4       134.6      1.61         5.12        6.73
1/ Estimates are based on price levels as of October 1975.



ANNEX 2
PAGE 3 OF 5
B O L I V I A
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
AAPOS - SUBPROJECT - POTOSI
COST ESTIMATES I/
------B$ Million - -             ------US$ Million --------
LUCAL     FOREIGN     TOTAL      LOCAL     FOREIGN     TOTAL
Construction Equipment                -         6.8        6.8        0.00       0.34       0.34
Canals:  Pati Pati and San Jose      3.8        2.8        6.6        0.19       o.14       0.33
Water Treatment Plant                0.6        o.4        1.0        0.03       0.02       0.05
Distribution System                  0.8        4.0        4.8        0.04       0.20       0.24
Connections and Meters               0.2        1.6        1.8        0.01       0.08       0.09
Leak Detection                        -         2.4        2.4        0.00       0.12       0.12
User Census                          0.6         -         0.6        0.03       0.00       0.03
Subtotal                         6.0        18.2       2-.O        o           .         1.20a
Administration and                   2.4         -         2.4        0.12       0.00       0.12
Engineering (Design)               0.2        0.4        0.6        0.01       0.02       0.03
Basic Cost                       L.6       16         27.0         0.43       0.93       135
Technical Assistance                1.4         -          1.4        0.07       0.00       0.07
Physical Contingencies              1.4         2.8        4.2        0.07       0.14       0.21
Price Contingencies                  2.4        5.0        7.4        0.12       0.25       0.37
Total Cost               13.O                                      0.69       1.32 2.00
/ Estimates are based on price levels as of October 1975.



ANNEX 2
PAGE 4 OF 5
B O L I V I A
URBAN AND RURAL COMOUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ELAPAS - SUBPROJECT - SUCRE
COST ESTIMATES I/
-____---B$ Million-- -----        _      _US   Million __-- --
LOCAL     FOREIGN     TOTAL    LOCAL      F = IGN      TOTAI
Canal Works                          2.2        1.8        4.o       0.11        0.09       0.20
Maintenance Equipment                 -         2.2        2.2        0.00       0.11       0.11
Water Treatment Plant Extension      0.6        0.1        0.8       0.03        0.05       0.08
Distribution System                  4.0       25.4       29.4       0.20        1.27       1.47
Extension Sewerage System            9.2       33.6       42.8       o .46       1.68       2.14
Subtotal                         16.0       64.0       80.0      Q0           3.20       I=
Administration and                   3.0         -         3.0        0.15         -        0.15
Engineering (Design)               2.2        1.8        4.0       0.11        0.09       0.20
Basic Cost                       21.2       65.8       87.0       1.06       l!2 a       La
Technical Assistance                 0.2         -         0.2       0.01        0.00       0.01
Physical Contingencies               3.6        9.6       13.2       0.18        o.48       0.66
Price Contingencies                  6.8       18.2       25.0       0.34        0.91       1.25
Total Project Cost               31.8                 125.14                  1.782
/  Estimates are based on price levels as of October 1975.



ANNEX 2
Technical Assistance                     Page 5 of 5
Average
Fee per     Total
Man     man-months  Cost
Months  U.S.$        U*S$
DIU
a. Consuiltant for:
(i) review and improvement of administration and
organization                                           1      2,000        2,000
(ii) definition of functions and responsibilities of
DIU, position descriptions, policy                     3      2,000        6,ooo
b. Consultant for:
(i) project evaluation training                            4      4,000       16,000
(ii) travel (2 round trips - foreign)                       -        --          1,200
(iii) internal travel                                        -        --            300
(iv) per diem                                                                    4 4500
Sub-total:                        If,
(v) contingency                                                                 3,000
33,000
c. Consultant for:
(i) metering programs and effect in Sucre and Potosi       1      2,000         2,000
(ii) tariff structures and effects in Sucre and Potosi    1        2,000         2,000
Sub-total:                        - 7
(iii) contingency                                                                 3 000
Total:                        40,000
CORPAGUAS
a. Consultants for:
Standardization of designs, materials, specifications
bidding documents                                           4     2,000         8,000
b. Consultants for:
Manuals for operation and maintenance personnel at
village level                                               3     2,000         6,000
c. Consultants for:
(i) planning the transfer of operation and maintenance
support to DDO's (agreements, responsilities,          3      2,000         6,000
schedules)
(ii) planning other transfer of construction to DDO's
(agreements, responsibilities, schedules)              3      2,000        6,ooo
(iii) internal travel                                         -       __          1,200
(iv) per diem (90 days x $20)                               -        --          1,800
d. Consulting Fizu for:
Review and improvement of accounting procedures             4     4,000        16,000
e. Printing expenses                                           -       --          2,000
.Sub- total:                      177;,
f. Contingency                                  Sbta
Total:
AAPOS
a. Consulting Firm for:
i) review and establishment of sound accounting
procedures                                               6     4,000        14,000
(ii) review and improve commercial practices,
billing and collecting                                  4      4,000        16,000
(iii) internal travel                                          -       --            200
(iv) per diem (6 months or 180 days x $20)                    -       --          3,600
b. Consultant for:
(i) establishing a meter repair shop and maintenance
c. Consultant for:                             pro-gram        2     2,000         4,000
public  relaions program                      Sub-total:   4      2,000         8 
d. Contingency                                        Total:                       6 200
ELAPAS
a. Consultants for:
developing financial and reporting practices               4      2,000         8,0oo
b. Contingency                                                                     1.000
9.000
SU1MRY
DIU                                                       10                  40,000
CORPAGUAS                                                 17                  52,00o
AAPOS                                                      16                  72,000
ELAPAS                                                                          9 9 000
TOTAL:        4                   7.0



ANNEX 3
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
URBAN AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year and               Quarterly                  Cumulative
Quarter Ending                     Disbursement               Disbursement
(US$ millions)
1977
December 30, 1976                      0.10                       0.10
March 31, 1977                         0.70                       0.80
June 30, 1977                          1.00                       1.80
1978
September 30, 1977                     1.20                       3.00
December 31, 1977                      1.00                       4.00
March 31, 1978                         1.50                       5.50
June 30, 1978                          1.00                       6.50
1979
September 30, 1978                     1.50                       8.00
December 31, 1978                      1.00                       9.00
March 31, 1979                         1.25                      10.25
June 30, 1979                          0.25                      10.50
1980
September 30, 1979                     0.50                      11.00
December 31, 1979                      0.20                      11.20
March 31, 1980                         0.10                      11.30
June 30, 1980                          0.10                      11.40
1981
September 30, 1980                     0.10                      11.50
August 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2 pages
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
URBAN AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ASSUMPTICNS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTICNS
The financial projections have been made using the ECOFI ComDuter Projection
System. The following are the significant assumptions.
Assumptions Cormon to all__ubproject~s
1.    Price Inflation  Domestic inflation has been estimated using the La Paz
Consumer Price Index as a base. The estimates far imported material are based
on average trend figures for world prices. The rates adopted are:
%              1975     1976      1977     1978     1979
Domestic                        12       10        9         8        8
Foreign                         12       10        8         8        8
2.        For  asset revaluation, 85% of the Domestic inflation factor has been
used as a proxy for a nationwide construction cost index. Assets are depreciated
at an average rate of 2.8% per annum.
3.        The Bolivian Peso is presumed to maintain its present relationship of
20.0 to 1 US Dollar.
4I.       The executing agencies are exempt from taxes other than social security
and are assumed to remain in that status.
Urban Component
AAPOS - Potosi
1.        The demand projections are based on the assumption that the present
consumption is 25 cu. metres per month per connection (9 people per connection)
and that water losses in the system are 62% of water produced, but are reduced
as shown in Annex 5.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2 pages
2.        The new connectrons are assumed to have a demand of 20 cu. metres
per month, rising to 22.0 cu. metres in 1987 and to serve 7.5 people per
connection. This takes into account CODEPO plans for urban renewal and new
housing.
3.        The population of Potosi is assumed to grow at 1.5% per annum. This
low figure is adopted because of the unattractive location of the city in high
bleak mountains. There is little rural-urban migration as the relative attrac-
tions of the city are not strong.
ELAPAS - Sucre
1.        The demand projections are based on the assumption that the present
residential water consumption is 20 cubic meters per connection (6-5 people per
connection) and that initial water losses are 48 of production, but are re-
duced as shown in Annex 6.
2.        The new connections are presumed to uae 20,00 cu. metres per month
but as the regularity of the service improves and the sewer System is installed,
the average for all connections will increase to 28 cu. metres per month in 1979.
3.        The population is assumed to grow at 2.5% per annum, slightly below
the annual national growth rate of 2.6 as Sucre has physical and planning
restrictions on its expansion.
4.        ELAPAS is expected to introduce both a sewerage service surcharge
of 10% of the monthly water bill effective January 1, 1978 and a
tax on cement to yield around US$0.2 million per year starting in 1979.



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERALE PROJECT
AAPOS POTOST                                             INIOt*1 STATEMENT                                  MILLION B$          AUG 197t6
. ..... .........,...,,,.............................................................. .,........ .-.--.....................-.-........,*--------, ---
1974       t97S        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        t983
,._... _,_,, ....... ,,,, .......... ,  , ,.., ......... ,  ,__,_. ......  ..... ;::..... __,;._____ -----............. ___,________ ..... .:;.......................... _  ._,
POPULATIoN-T#^IISANO               74,Ot)      75 11       76,24       77;38       75,54       79.72       B0,91       82.1t3      83,3tS    84.61
POPULATION SERvFP-WATER            30. 6)     136,90       43.20       48.72       55. 5      61.21       67.?1       67.66       68.8t9          53
POPULATION SFQVFn-SEWER              t,0 01)      0*0        0 , 00     00o         0.00        (1.00       0.00        0.00        0.00 o0.0
X POPULATION SFRVFD-WATER          4t.35       49. 13      96,67       62.96       70.09       76.78       83.0t6      82.38       82.64       83,3t6
WATER CONNECTiOnS-THOU3S             3,/lt      4..0        4.,0        5.t60       6.40        7.20        8.00        8.20        B.4l0       8.bo
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  Ml              1.1         1,23        1.40       l.5q        2.98        3.17        3.37        3.51        3.57        3.b2
CONSUMPTION/CONNFC/MONTH           28,68       25.00       24,27       23.66       38.82       36.73       35.06       S5.69       35.36       35.0S
UNNACCOUNTED FOR WATER X           62.00       62.00       55OO        40.00       35.0)0      30.00       25,00       25.00       ?3.00       23,00
WATER PRODUCTInN.MILL. Ml           3,oA        3,2(1       3,11        2,65        4.59        4.53        4.49        4.68        4.63        4.70
PER CAPITA PRnoUCTION LCO         279.5)      243.66      199,76      151.09      231.50      208,78      185,49      192.27      186,70      185,06
WATER REVENUFS                       10.62      0.64        0,76        1.59        4.47        7.30        9.39       10.05       10.30       11.94
OTHER OPERATIONAL RFVENUF            0, 31)        49        0,49       o .S,       0.56        0.56        0.St6       0.14        0.14        0,14
.,.,,,,~~ ,,.,77  ............ 7..  ... w. ;_.___ , .-"    ..... ..... ........... ,; -- ............. -...:  .... _,......_..  ..........  ..........._
TOTAL REVENUES R,92                              t,l3        1,25       2.19        5.03        7.86        9.9F       10.19       10.44       12,0S
WATER WAGES                           .t         1 .1S       1.26        1,52        1.78       2.06        2.35        2.56        2.78        3.01
CHEmICALS                            o.03        0.04        0.04        0.0        0 . 06       1.07       0.07        0.08        o,09        0,09
POWER                                0,0I        0.00        0 ,00     o0.00        o.0o0 o0 0              00 0o,O.00              ( 00        0.00
MATERIALS                            ( .02       0o 2        0,03        0.03       0.04        0.04        0.05s       0.o05        0.06        00
.... ......  ........          --  ------    --------,,....................   ....___.,,    ....... ------    --------  --------  --------  --------
DIRECT COSTS-WATER                   11,96       1.21        1.33        1.58       188        2.17        2.47        2.t69       2,92        3.17
___............. ,_,   .......... . .. . . . -------   , .....  . ..  ._   . ...    ,,--- - -   -------- ... -------   --- ---   -- -- -   _____-___------.....................
DIRECT COSTS SFWERAGE               1nn1t)       0.00        0.00        ).00       0.00        00 0        0.00        0.00    0     ,00        0,00
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                   0.96        1.21 .33               1.58       1.88        2.17        2,47        2.69        2.92         3.17
ADMINISTRATION                       V.25        0,33       0o40         o.49       0.58        0,,68       0.74         0.86        0.93        1,03
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS                 0.n2         1.0o4     0o.O         0.10        0.27       n.44        0.56         0.t6S0     0o,62        0.7a
*txa8-sw  asss-as    =ZZXZTX;   *5-:s=:s  ,,,-Ss,,  zazwz;==   s=Zzm2: _ 229r :s-=:--s3 stsszz                 ss   a
TOTAL COSTS                          1.29        1.57        1.78       2.17        2.'3 3,3                '.3          4          647          4.9w           lb
INCnME EEFORF nFPRECIATION    .-0t,            _0.44       -0,53       -u.02        2.31        4.8s6       6.12        t.03        s9.7         7.18 I 0t
DEPRECIATION                         1958        0.84         . 97       1.06        1.48        2.17       2.6n         2.87        3.10        3.35            o 0
*-summan  s*sw=:-X   *:--za,s   muzx=zm   =.--oxna  mazs:s=z  =X=mc==:   ==-s=sts  =Xz:.xax  Man-aus*=
INCOME BEFORE TNTEREST             -0.t9       *1.29       -1,50       -1.08        0.8?        ?.40        3.52         3.17        2,87        3.S3            4
INTEREST CHARGFD DPER,               1.0n)       0.VO0       0.00       0.00        0.00        1 .12       ?.91         2.75        2. t0       2.44
X-X*2222  *=Xzrats   *-:z:war  *anxz=z-  z==:w=zm   :s2==s==  :===m===s  zxz=zmx=  X_==zmzz   ammz=sg                           OQ
NET SURPLUS t+i                     0.89       .1.29       - .50       -1.08         o.e2        1.28        0.h6        0.41       t0.27        1.39 9
AVERAGE RATE 8ASF                  20.32       29.t5        32,60      34.60       48.29       70*.47      83.2"       89.24        93.88       96.57
*OPERATING 9ATiO X                13 3,09)    139,13      142.14      lotJ.77      54..20      41.2        38 . 4      4t).75       42P.80      40.S6
*RATE oF RETUNI X                   4 .3R      -4.42       -4,9        -3.11         1.70       3.40         4.21        3.55        3,0t6       3.88
AVENASE wATER TAmTPF s/ Ml           0 .53       0 .52       t/.54       1 .00       1.50        2,30        2.79        2,8b        2. 89       330
TOTAL AVER.REVFNUES S/ M3            0.79        0.92        0.S9        1. 35       1 .691      2.48        2.96        2.90        2 93        S. 34
X ANUAL INCREASE WATFR TARIFF                  .1.89         4.42      84. t6      50.00       5.133        2t.30        2.5t        1.0'       14.Iq
S ANUAL INCR.TnTAL  RFVENUFS                    16.40      -2.7t       I1.3(3      24.84       4 8.71       I .'I -1.9t              l.01       13 9p
TOTAL COST/VOL.SOLD S/ M3            1 .0h6      1.28        1.27        1.3t        091         t  .         .          l .18       1.2a        1.15



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
URBAN AND RURAL COMs"ITX  WATER SUP LY AND DEBE J ROECT
AAPOS PoTosy                                               rFLOW OF FUNDS                           NMLLION B                              AUG 197b
19714       197T        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980         1981        1982        1983
SOURCES 0F FUNDS
*-uzskszmx=z=wxzm
INCONt BEFORE MEPRECIAT!0N          .0,31       .0,44       -0.53       _..02         2.31        4.56        hj12       6.03         5,97        7,18
NON OPER.QEVEFNUS(NE)                (0.Do        o,oO    00  0. 00 0o.               .00        n.00        0.00         o.00 oO00               0,00
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATTON            0,lt       .0,44       -0,53        .o.02        2OS1        4.9t        b,12        b, O3        5,97        7,18
GRANTS                              0n,57         0.514       2.97        4.49        2,54        0.00        0.00        0,00         o.00        0,00
rNCRIAbk  IN RFSERVES                4.06         0.00        0.00 .o00               0.00 (o.0o              0.00        0.00         0.00        0,00
IBRO LOAN                            0, 00 O9o6 ',56                    20,37         7.67        0.00        0.00        o00         0.00        0.00
NATIONAL LOANS                       0,o0, 0,00               0.00        o,00        0.00        0.00         .00        0.00         0,00        0,00
* --~~~~...  ........  .......                          ........|s*ass ... *.:.s.. .   z.s:.........sx: .wl.ts*a... gs...  *.sX. .. . .@..
TOTAL LOANS                          00            ,oS.                 20.37        7.67        oo  0.00          0.00  0000.00                  0.00
33333333 ~asuflUus  323223:2;                ...gj   335332    3z2*33;:  g....   u   ....3303  uuauu    u33?:3I;
TOTAL SOURCES                        0.36         0,10        8.00       24,85       12.52        44.5        h.12        6.03         5,97        7,18
APPLYCATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENhT IN PROJECT               0.00         0,00       61;00       22,75       11.51        n,oo        0,00        0,00         0,00        0,00
CAF?TALlttD  INTERlET                o0oo         a,oo        0,1I        1,54        2.68        1,87        D 0,00       n.00        0,00        0.00
0t4T4!  INVESTMENT                   o.oo         3,00        0.00        o.O0        0.00        o.00o        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
DTHER WOIRS EXCESS CASW             0o2l          0.00        0,00        0.00        0.00        0.00N       0.00        0.0o         o0oo        0,00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                     (0,21        3,00        6t,18      p428        14.19        1.87        'too         1.00        1,00        3.00
I8QO  AMORTIZATInN                   0o.0         0.00        0.00       o00         n.Om        0.88        1.77         1.77        1.77        1.77
NATTONAL PROJErT LOAN AmORT          o,oo         0,00        0.00        0,00        o.11        14.00       0.00         0.00        n.oo        0,00
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                   0,00         0,00        0,00         00oo       o.0o        0,88         1.77        1.77        1.77        1,77
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.LOAN            0,00         0,00        0,00        o,00        0.00        1.12        2.91         2.75        2,60        2,44
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                   0.0          o0O     00 00o         o,00        o.1O        2,01        4.68         4.52        4,37        4,21
INCREASE IN WORK:CAPITAL             O,19       .2.90         1  '        0 .56       1 .67       0.b9        0.44         0.51        0,IS       -0.03                 - 
35333333   e33*umuu   *:Uuuuuz  zzuqsuUS   *ez3gZ32   M.:3::9:   =::u::::   :33:.:::   33u3:xzzu  33335333
TOTAL APPLICATTONS                   0.36        (0.10        B,00       24.85       12.52        4,56        6.12         h.u3        5.97        7.18
DEPT SERVICE RATIO                   0.00         44.00*****,*******,*****,**t****                2.28         1.31 i1.3               1.37        1.71
nD



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
AAPOS POTCST                                                     8ALANCE SHEET                           MILLION B$                     AUG 1976
-.._..,................._...__.   ......_,...__......_....................................._.___............____________________
1974       1975        1976        1977        1978       197Q        1980        1981        1982        1983
x::5sxxWaSsss5fsszzmzzxzx xmsxm:=Slxxzzux===Sa--zass=Sssastsazza:smm sssEg:sSs===zz==s=,=X:aX=SZBZNS--XX==XZSUXXZZXZSXEssstXBZ
A m 3 E T s
FIxED ASSETS IN OPER.              27,21       33.15       36.11       39.52      66.55       88.21       97,76      106.92      114.66      124,88
MINu,S ACCUM.DFPRECIATinN             .rig8     1. 4F       2,59        3.86        5.62       8.19       11.31       14.89       18.93       23,47
,"_.____ .__,.___ ___ ._____~~~----_ _____ .........................__ ... ___-   ---.... .___; ........... __:;   ... _;; ___ 1... __
NET FIXED ASSFTS                   26.63       31,66       33.664      35.a6 60.93            80.02       88,45       92.04       95.73      101,41
W(ORK IN PROGRESS                   ().00       0.00        6.18       30,00      20.00        S.00        2,0n        0,00        0.00        0,00
CASH AND BANKS                       t.37       0.13        2,99        4,23        3.6t       3.99        3.76         4.20       4,72        4,20
ACCOUNTS RECEIvARLE                 2.13        (.79        0.715       1,08        2.01       2.36        2.99        3.06        3.l3        3.82
INVENTORIES                         0.1         00.l3       0.0 4       0.04        0,06       0.07        n.o7        0,08        0.09        0,09
SPARE PART IV!VNTORY                4.9(1       4.00        3.00        2.00        0.o00         00       0.00         0 .00      0.00        0.00
OTMER CURRENT ASSETS                  .n(0      0.o0        0.00         .000       0.00        o.oo       0.00         0,00       0,00        0,00
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                8.911       4.96        6.78        7.34        S.68       6.37        o.82        7,33        7,94        7.92
TOTAL ASSETS                       3S.13       36.62       146.0       73.00      8A.61       91.39       95.27       99,37      103.67      109.32
EQUITY AND LIARILITIES
EQUITY                              0, /t       0, 94       a,54        0.'4        0.54        0,54       0.514        0.54       0,5 4       0,54
CONTRIBUTIONS                      20.57      21.11       24.08       28.57       31.11      31.11       31.11       31.11       31.11       31.11
REVALUATION SURPLUS                 0.00)       2.88        S,71        81.4 4     11.01      I5,.40      POI44      25,88       31,68       37,71
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS                 0.2t       -t1.u       -?.S7       _3.b5       -2.83      -1.59       -0.94       -n.53       _0.2S         1,13
TOTAL EQUTTY                       21,32       23.4S       27.77       33.90      39.f3        45.49      51.14       57.00       63.08       70,50
4 LONG TERM DERTfNFT)                13.00       3,uO       18,16       3S.93       45.72      43.95        4?*18       40.41      38.64       36.87
teCOUNTS PAyARiE                    (1.69       0.01I       U.01        o.01        0.02        0.02        0.G2        0.02        0.02       0,02
CURRENT MATURTTIFS                  o).0        0. 00       0,00        o;00        0.88        1.77        1.77        1.77        1,77        1,77
OTHFR CURRENT ITARILITIES            l.n0       0.oo        o,o000      t). 00      0.00        mno         0.ono      0.00        0.00        0,00
--w9ww~~~0         ......... a,- .......... *.............. _-*  ... ,.....  ... .. ... w  -_---_- ._----  -- ---- -- ,.......
TOTAL CURRENT LTARILTTIES          (0.65        .0l        0.01        A,01        0.90        1.79        1.79         .79        1.79       1,79 
RESFRVES                            0.t6        0.186       016         0.16        0.16        n.16        0.16         .6 0l o,6             0,16             m
TOTAL LTARILITTES                  13.82       i3.t7       18.73       39.10       46.78      45,90       144.13      14236       40.59       38.83            o 
3z3332    3333    333333--    33-  *3u;gzzu    :333x-33    :3:33:ag  8333333s   3SS333  33x3sS33   mazzuZ:a
TOTAL EQUITY-LTABILITIES           35.13       36.02       46.1S0      73.00       86.61      91.39       9r,27       99.37      103.t67     109,32
CURRENT RATIO                      13.04      573,99      708,24      741.57        6.32        3.57        3.82        4.10        4.44        4,42           t
X DEBT/(DEBT+EOUTTY)               37.88       35.67       40,06       53 4r      53,44      149.1a      45.20       41 .48       37,99      34.34
WORKING CAPITAl-MILLTON             7. 85       4.95        6.77        7.33        5.66        6.35        6.80        7.31        7.92        7,89



ANNEX 5
BOLIVIA                     Page 4 of 4 pages
APPRAISAL OF THE
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
AAPOS  - POTOSI
MARr,INAI. ClST9 ANr 'AFNFFITS
YEAR       TO0TAL      Vr!LLMF      AvFP'Ak;t      TAIIFF         FT
COSTS +nTHFP    Sf,L!'       RFVE',LFS      RFvFNUFS    OENEFITS
REveI'I'F>S                  >
1976     -9.711         0le.168      o.s3          o.9091     -9h19
1977    -2?.71?         0.360 .0cflIQ              o.327    -2'1,.3P3R
1978    -1(.Uq9s        1.792        1.,51          .!92     -7,903
1979     -J.99          1 .94q        1.77f6       3.1'93      25954
1980     -1t,?2         P.136        l,q99        '4.261       3,0'49
1981     -1.03;o        ?.??          t.1 "I t.362            2.732
1982     -1.723         ?.335        t.9           4215        2.
1983     -1.94?         P.36?         1/9{         4()         260
1984     -I.Q'j2        2.362        1.Q26         4,550       2,?08
1985     -1*9'1?2       2.362        1.*26         /4,550      2.608
198h     -1.9'12        ?,362         1.926        4.16550     2,6
1987     -l.0'l?        2.362         1 .92h6     4.5(10      2.608
1988     -1.9I42        2.362         1.926        r4.5S0      2,608
1989     -1.942          .'362       t1926         4.9S0      2.6O8
1990     -1. 942        2.362         1,926        4.550       2.608
1993     -1.9142        2.362         1.926        4,5990      2.608
1992     -1.942         2,362         1,.Qp6       4.550       2,bOB
1993     -1.942         2.36?         1,926        /J. 50      2,608
1994     -1.942         2.362         1.926        4S590       2.608
1995     -1.942         2.362         1,926        '4590       2,608
199h     -1.9/2        2.362         1.026        14.S50      2.608
1997     -1.942         2.362         t.926        /4.590       .b(p
2000     -1.q'4?        2.362         1.92S        '14.9(5     2.608
2999     -1.942?        2.362         1.q26        4.590       2.608
2000     -1.942         2.362         1.926        /J.550      2.(08
2003     -1.*"2?        P.362         1.926        /1.9C;0     ?.60,8
2002     -1@9Z1'2       2.362         t,926        /4,990      2.f,QA
2004     -1.912         ?,362         1,926        qI.-So      2,608
2005     -1.9/42        2.36?         1.026        a.55,0      P.60A
2006     -19;'42        2.362         t.926        /41,90     2.608
2007     -1.942         2,362         l.926        4,550       2.608
2008     -1.942         P.36?         1.926        4.ri50      ?.608
PRESENT VALUE nF CIOSTS ANtrn PF^IFITS AT A DTSCf!UN1 !)F
0.0 % X     111.72
5.0 %         14.118
10!O 0       -10.oq
,?I).0 V..
JNcREMEKiTAI PbT; rfl PFTIIPNI FflP W,TIF  Y.       6.II FFr 3; YFARS



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THlE
URBn  ANID RURAL COM9UMITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEIUADE PIlOJECT
tO-ELAPAS SUCPF                                               ImCnIMF STATFMEOT                                    MILL 144            AUG 1976
ALTER4NATIVE 1
t9770       1079,      1t76         j977        1978         1979        1980        1981         1982        1983
POPULATION-THOU8AND     514.01) ~~~~~~5 39      ;6-7I;4~5                596         61 7.10     62.62       6(4.19       65.79       67,144
POPULATION SERVEDl-WATER            37.0,       niI.02       014.27      4*6. 78     49.20       90.69      .51.66        93. 46      55.86       57,06
POPULATION 3ERVEO-SEWER             29,18       ?6,57        01.20       314*89      18.74       145.82      50.10        51.15       152.64      53.95*
S POPULATION SF8VED-WArER           64.61       714.1i0      78.0?       80.45       82.55       82.97       82.49        81.29      DP14.90      84.61
WATER CONNECTInN3-THOUS.             r,.71       6.31         6.8 1       7.11        7.81        8.31         8.61        8.91        9.11         9.51
SEWER CONNECTInNJS-THOUSAN           3.q11       14.09        4,f40       S 4,14      6.15        7.51        8.35         8.56        8.77         8.99
I POPULATION SFRVED.8Ew42R          147. 00     48 0 0      59.00        60o. 00     65 . 00     75.00       8 0.00       80 .0 0     8 0 .00     80.00
VOLUME SOLD-MIL-LION  Ml3            2. oS       2.02         a 14        2.26        2.74        3.26         1.37        31.47       3.60         3,67
CONSUMPTION/C,NNFC/mnlNT'1          29.91       26.63        26.115      2.:7        29.20       32.714      112.57       32,42       32.23       32.14
UNNACCOUNTED Ff7R ,ATEP 1           48,0))      14,0 0       145,0       35I         3o0.00      30.0        2.5,00       25,00       a 0 ,00     20.00
WATER PRODUCTInN-MILL. M3             .4          18          3,8         3,147       19          146         14,149       14.62       4,50         14.38
PER CAPITA PROnUCTION LCD          295.s57     262.65      241.78      206.11       220,71      255,56      241.28       2140,14    2P23,81      221.19
WATER REVENUES                       1.2')        3"02        3.38        I,83       13.114      16.32        Is $oJ      20 . 0      22.32       214,94
SEWER REVENUES                       0 .00   00               0.00        140 0       1,0          1.9         180         1.93        2.10         2,3*
OTHER OPERATIONAL REEU                 .0         0.81        02          0.20         ,0 40                  41,2         1.1          41           , O
TOTAL REVENUES                       1.21)        3.27        3.58        6.'01      18.17       22.00a      214.42       26.1t6      28,59       311,36
WATER WAGES                          1.814        2,'26       2,614       3.,05       3.147       5.98         14.34       14.76       5.29         5.7*
CHEMICALS                            0.1')        0,34        0.17        0,140       o.144       8.417        0,50        0.514       0.58         0,62
POWER                                 10))         000        0.0 0       40          0.0          0.0         0~R         00.00                    0.00
MATERIALS                            11.))        0*4         0'27        N31         0.5         0. 39         .4          .4         0.5          0.56
DIRECT COST3SWATFR                   2.4          28           ,9         37           .26         4",81       9,.8        5.78        6,39         6.99
SEWER WAGES                          0,21         0.214       0.26        0.28        0.30         0.33        0.35        0,36         0,60        0.93
DIRECT COSTS SFWERAGF                112           .4         0.6         0*8         oo           03          0.35        0.I          010         06
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                   I.9          30           .5         1,5         05           ,114        Ik63        6,11        6,79         7,3?
ADMINISTRATION                       1.0))        1.16        1,10        1,"45       1.60         1S76        1,90        2.0          2.23        2,140
OTMER INDIRECT COSTS                 11. 1)0      0 .18a      0,20         0.5        0.85         tic?        I.l J?      I            1.147       1,.64
TOTAL COSTS                          1,959        14.141      Is.05       Is 5a       7.0         7,T.96       8,71        9,3,       1 0.99       1 1,81
INCOmE BEFORE fIEP8ECIATION         -*.1        -,1I4        -1 417       0,18        7.16       19,0 3       19,66       1 6.6*      16,0         19 9?7
DEPRECIATION                          1.27        1. 79       ?.08        1,11        0.92         6. 48       7 .24       7,.79        5.3         8.I!81:
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST              -0,6        .29          -155         2.1          .4          756         838,2                    98          i
INTEREST CHAROFO nIPER.              0.0)(1)      0,00        0.08        0.15I       0.19r        3.149       58,82       8. 35        7.88        7.41
NET SURPLUS (+i-,6                                212        -.1         ..8          229          40          011         1.4           .0         36
AVERAGE RATE RASE                   17. 99      31.62        19. 4 4     70,72      128.957     1 75. 142    190.09      200.56      2 06.68      214,140
*OPERATING RATIO 0                 012, 26     131,0        1 40,99      96.99       148.81t     36.20        3158        16,48        36.68       36. 36
*RATE OPRTR                          92           87 0       -9.00       - 4.14        1.90        4.11       14.12        4,40         4,73        5,19I 
AVERAGE WATER +ARIFF S/ 43            1 .96       1.10        1.598       2 .58       a.140        9.00        9.90        5,80         A.20        6.80
SEWER REE~ESCNN/40nNT4               1) ( O       0(1)0       1.(0        0.0 0      ILIU2        1 6.17      17.9)       18.80        1'.914      21. 86
TOTAL AEvVERURfEV/NCUES 8/ 141        1.96        1.62        1.:61       7*2b7       9.:25        6.714       7. 26       7,.55        7 .94       0. 56
S ANUAL INCREASE WATER TARIFF                    -1.89,       9.51       6 3.1 7     85 .8a     1   ,7        10.00         5 ,045      6.9 0       9,.68
S ANUAL INCR.TrTAL RFVFNU1FS                     3,.9)       1.,4 3      q*1.9      96.55        24,11        7 .7 0       1,79        S. 22       7,76
.TOTAL COST/VML'SOLD S/ Ml3           1 .7r       2 .19        2 . 36      ?.5(        2.56        ?. 4i        1           0 o  .75     0,191       3 .11I



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
URBAN AND RURAL COMNKUITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWRAGE PROJECT
ii1ELAPAS SUCRF                                             FLOW OF FUNDS                           mILL 85                           AUG 1976
ALTERNATIVE 1
1974       1979       1976        1977       1978       1979        1Q80       1q91        1982       1983
SOURrES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION        -0.39      -1*1'J      *1 147      0.18       7.36       14,03      19.be       16,61      18,10      19,97
NON OPER*REVENUES(NET)             (.00       0,00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.0o        0.00       0,00       0,00        0.00
*._---wt w""ew9...9-w .........   ,, .............  .... ....  ..... ,  .._w .._"*.. ... a, ....... _.,......
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION         -0.39      -tit4      -1.47        o.18       7.36       14.03      15.68       16,6t      1b,10       19.97
GRANTS                             0.ab6       5,27      14.11      17.4r7       8,42       0.00        0.00       0,00        0.00       0.00
INCREASE OTHER LIA8ILITIE          1).37      0.03      w040        0u.40      -0.0         0.'40      0.00        (.00       0.00        0.00
INCREASE IN RFSERVES               0.16       0.00        o.oo       0.00       0.00        n,00       0.00        0,00       o0oo        0,00
IRD LOAN                          0.0o       0,00       11,41      46.82      41,77        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
NATIONAL LOANS                     0.00       0,00        0,00       0.00       0.00        0,00       0,00 0.00              0.00        0.00
TOTAL LOANS                        0.0(       0,00       11,41      46.82      41,77        0,00       0.00        0,00       0,00        0,00
SHORT TERM LOANS                   .00       0.O0        0,00       0.00       0,00        0.00       0.00        0,00      (000         0.00
33333333  uz::3:3z  -ss3u333  333;3333  u3333332  3UUUUEU   33333333  33333UU3  333333                *sumsuau
TOTAL SOURCES                      0.61       4,66      23.h65      64.87      57.15       14.43      15.68      b161        I8aI0      19.97
APPLICATIONS oF FUNDS
3amon a3     33    3m
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT               .0 0" ,00            14,02      se,56      S3,33        0,00       0,00        0,00       @o00        0,00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST               0.00       0.00        0.46       3,59       7.20        5,56       0,00        0,00       0,00        0.00
OTHER INVESTMENT                   0.St       4.00        0,00       o.00        0.oO       1.00       1.00        1000        .0oo       5.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                    .'50     04,uO       14.48      62,15      60.53        6,56       1.00        1,00       1.00        5,00
I8RD AMORTIZATION                    "         000              0             000       2,63       o,26        5,26       5.26        5,26
NATIONAL PROJFCT LOAN AMORT        0.00       0.00        000        U 0.00      0.00       0.00       0.0C        0,00       0.00        0.00          Vt
SHORT TERM Lr'ANS AMORTIZ.         0.o0       o.0o 0.so 0oo  .00                0.000        ,00       0.00        0.00   0    ,      00 0,a0
.......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--. ........  ..__..   ......   ......    w...    ...............    ....
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                 0,o0       0,00        0,50      o000        0.00        2,63       5.26        5,26       5,26        5.26        >
OPER.INTFREST LONG T.LOAN          0.00       0,00        0.08       o,l5       0,1S        3,09       P.82       8a,5        7,88        7,41        t 
,,,,,,,, ........  ........  ........  .......,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,. ......  ......  .....   .............               oo
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTERFST        (0.)       0."0        0.08       o,l5       0.15        3a49       A,82        8,35       7Q88        7.41
TOTAL DEBT SERVI4E                 0.00       0 00        0;58      (o15        0.1S        b.12      10,08       11,6t      13.14       12.67
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL           0.11       0,66       8.59        2.57      -3.93        l.79       0 .hn       2,QO       3,96        2.30
:at.u:.wu   mammuzum  3u~:2.3z  :smgmuZZ   ma:3:U33  :3gm.:::  :3:3:33:  :sss:s33  :22:::::  333333
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 0,bl       4.6      23.65       64.87      97.15       14,43      19.68       16.61      11,10       19.97
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                 0.0o       0,)0       -2,51       i,21      49,0a        2,29       1.11        1,22       1.38        1.58



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
URBAN AND RURAL COCMIITIES WATER SUPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
12-ELAPAS SUCRF                                                   BALANCE SHEET                            MILL 85                      AUA 1976
ALTERNATIVF I
9701      1975       1976        tQ77        197A       q79        tqeo       l981        1982       183
A S9 S E T S
*._.. _-.....
FIXED ASSETS TN OPER.             60(.r 9     67.o7      81.S9      14t)-35    210.99      251.74     269.10      287,55      306,67     330.99
MINUS ACCUM.OEPRECIATrON          21.96       26.12      30.59       6,.14      43.66       53.28      63.93       75.75       88,84     103.38
NET FIXED ASSFTS                  38,57       40t99      51.04      !u4.21     167.11      198,06     205.17      211,81      217.83     227,03
WORK IN PROGRESS                   l)Ol)       4,UO      10.00       20.00      20.00        1.00        0.50       0.00        0.0d0       000
CASH ANW  BANKS                    o.0        0.37       9,41       11,99       eo,0        5,9'       5.97        7.59       11.01       12,b7
ACCOUNTS RECFIvARLE                0.78        1.31       0.90        1.21       2.87        4,4o       4'&88       5,23        5,72        6,28
INVENTORIES                        u.86        0.17       0.19        o.21       0.24        0.26       0.28        0,30        0,33        0,35
SPARF PARTS IN          0 .5)      O,'3O       0.50          .50      0.50        OS.         050        0,50        0) .50     0,50
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS               0.12        0.16       0.l1        o.30        o.7?       1.10        1.22       1,31        1,43        1.57
TUTAL CURRENT ASSETS               2.2.        2,S2      11.T1    - 3.81        10,35       12.19      12,80       14,94       18,99      21,36
XX=5:gS5~~~~.4                              I;;-St   *N,t Bglgg|g  sW*  B|X    ssX :lt               S-
TOTAL AS3ETS                      qau:; 117.47           72.21      138.02     197,68      211.65     218.53      22h,74      236.82     248.99
EOUITY AND LIABILITIES
q-------. ........ , _ ...q  -.-q
EQUITY                            5 90q                                         S9,90 599 0            59*90       c9,90       59,90      59.90
CONTRIBUTIONS                      .59        9.83      19.94       37.41      45.83       45,83      45.83       45.83       45,85       45,83
REVALUATION SURPLUS                1,0(        4,17       7"85       11,99      19,49       '1.54      44,04       56,97       70,31      84,03
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS              -21.94      -?4.46    -28.09       -SI.17     -28.88    -24.81       "25,24      -24,77      -22.87     -19,23
TOTAL EQUITY                      38.92       nS.43      59,60       78.13      96.14      112.45     124.92      117.93      IS9,17     170.53
LONG TERM DERTCNFT)                 1,It4      0.44          aS 5     8,67      97.81       92.90      A7,28       82,02       76.75       71.49
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                   o411 (      o0oq       0.10        0.11       0.12        0.13        0.14       o.S1        f.Ib        0,18
CURRENT MATURTTIFS                 (.l, (,oO              0 .00       o,OO        2.63       5.26        5.26       5.26        S,26        5.26
OTHER CURRENT ITABILITIES          0.1l1       0 ,1l0     0.40        o,.46       o.92       n.59        0.6s       t .72       1,79        O,6b
TOTAL CURRENT LIASILITIES          0,85        0,43       Q.49        3,56       3,Z7        s.e        h.05        6.13        h,02 6.10
SHORT TERM DERT                    0).O(       O.-,O      0;00                    (.00   o.u0   0. 00 0Q.co                     0,00        0 .O 0 0
OTHER LIARILITTES                  0.31        0.40       0.o00        .40        0.a00      '.'0        0.ao       0.40        v,40        0.40 
RESERVES                           0.26        0,26       0.26       0).26        0.26       0.26        0.26       o,2b        0,2t6       0.26
TOTAL LIABILITTES                   1.32       2,o3      12,BO       S9.89     101.14       99.19      94.00         ,8 14                 78.6b
32323322  33333333  33233333  23333u33  :3333332  333333=   33333323  33333232   32232323  a:232:s:=... 
TOTAL EQiLTTY.t-ARILITIFS         411.89      17.47      72.21      138.02     197.68       11.tI F    21b.91      2.3 72  276,02 238.99 . 99            m
CURRENT RATIO                      2.68        5,92      22,66       24.45        3.17       2.04        2.12        2,44        i, 3       3.39
X DEBT/(ODE8T+nUJTTy)              1.12        0,96      16.58       42.B9      5O.38       45.14       41.21      37,29       13.38       29.54
WORKING CAPITAI-MILLION             I. z3      2.u9      IU.B       13,2'i       Q.71      11.47       12.106     14.07       1 8,3       20.32



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4 pages
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ELAPAS - SUCRE
17-ECONOMICAL RATE nF RETURN - ALTERNATIvE   I
MARGINAL COSTS AND 8FNEFITS
YEAR      TOTAL       VOLUME       AVERAGE       TARIFF        NET
COSTS +fITHER   SOLD        REVENUES      REVENUES   SENEFITs
REVENUFS                    slms
1976     P7.278        0,I20        t,s83        0J190     '7.088
1977   -27.137         0,240        2,348       0o,964    "26.5T4
1978     V1.87;        0,720        4.003        2,882       1,007
1979     w2,432        1,248        3.861        4,819      2,387
1980     .2,840        1,349        3.933        5.304      2,464
1981     .3.196        1,450        3,876        5,619      2,462
1982    -3,488         1.584       35872         6,134      2,646
1983    -.,317         1,b65t       3,969        6,S54      2,737
1984     "4,052        1,760        3,969        6,986      2,934
1985     W4.361        1.900        3,969        7,S42       3,181
1986      4 ,697       2.045        3,969        8,116      3,419
1987     "5.043        2,194        3,969        6,709      3,6615
1988     -1,401        2,348        3,969        9,321      3,920
1989     -l,771        2,SO8        3,969        9,954      4,183
1990     96,044        2,621        3,969       10,403      4,339
1991     -6.334        2.737        3,969       10,863      4,530
1992    .6.810         2.856        1,969       11,335      4,725
1993     .6.893        2,978        3,969       11,S81       4,q25
1994     .7.183        3,102        3,969       12,314      54130
1995    w7T48t         3,230        3,969       12,822      5,341
1996    w7,786         3,362        3,969       13,342      5,557
1997      .8.098       3,496        3,969       13,876      9.778
1998    *8o4t9         3,634        3,969       14,423      6,004
1999     w8,747        3,77S5       3,969       14,984      6,236
2000     -9,004i       3,920        3,069       15,558       6,474
2001     "9.230        3,983        3,969       15,810       6,580
2002     *9,320        3,983        3,969       15.8I0       6,490
2003     -9,320        3,983        3,969.      15,810       6,490
2004     -9,320        3,983        3,069       1'5,810      6,490
2005     -9.320        3,983        3,969      t1,810        6,490
2006    '9.320         3,983        3,969       159810       6,490
2007    w9.320         3,983        3,969       IS,810       6,490
2008     .9 320        3,983        3,969      1,1a0        6,490
PRESENT VALUE OF COSTS AND BENEFITS AT A DISCOUNT OF
0,0 K     112, 39
5,0 %a       27.35
10to  XS      e1 48
20,0 %O XKu7 a1lt
INCREMENTAL RATE OF RETURN FOR WATER Xz    9.61 FOR 33 YEARS



BOLIVIA
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
URBAN SUBPROJECT
TECHNICAL MONITORING INDICATORS
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
POTOSI
Population (0003)                                75.1   76.2   77.4   78.5   79.7   80.9   82.1   83.3   84.6
% Population Served Water                        49.1   56.7   63.0   70.0   76.8   83.1   82.4   82.6   83.3
Number of Connections Water (thousands)           4.1    4.8    5.6    6.4    7.2    8.0    8.2    8.4    8.6
% Unaccounted-for Water                          62     55      40      35     30      25      25      23     23
Total Production -  Million m3                    3.2    3.1    2.7    4.6    4.5    4.5    4.7    4.6    4.7
Total Sales - Million m3                          1.2    1.4    1.6    3.0    3.2    3.4    3.5    3.6    3.6
SUCRE
Population                                       55.3   56.7   58.1   59.6   61.1   62.6   64.2   65.8   67.4
% Population Served Water                        74.0   78.0   80.0   83.0   83.0   82.0   83.0   85.0   85.0
Number of Connections Water (thousands)           6.3    6.8    7.3    7.8    8.3    8.6    8.9    9.3    9.5
% Unaccounted-for Water                          48     45      35      30     30      25      25     20      20
Total Production (million cubic meters)           3.9    3.8    3.5    3.9    4.7    4.5    4.6    4.5    4.6
Total Sales (million cubic meters)                2.0    2.1    2.3    2.7    3.3    3.4    3.5    3.6    3.7
% Population Served Sewerage                     48     55      60     65      75      80      80     80      80       Z
No. of Connections Sewerage (thousands)           4.1    4.8    5.5    6.2    7.5    8.4    8.6    8.8    9.0   X 



BOLIVIA
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
URBAN SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL MONITORING INDICATORS
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
POTOSI
Average Water Tariff (B$/m3)                    0.52   0.54   1.00   1.50   2.30   2.80   2.86   2.90   3.30
Total Revenue (B$/m3) 1/                        0.92   0.89   1.35   1.69   2.48   2.96   2.90   2.93   3.34
Cost per m3 Sold                                1.28   1.27   1.36   0.91   1.04   1.14   1.18   1.25   1.35
Rate of Return 2/                             -4.40  -4.60  -3.10   1.70   3.40   4.20   3.60   3.10   3.90
Operating Ratio 3/                            139    142    100      54      42      39      41     43      41
SUCRE
Average Water Tariff (B$/m3)                    1.5    1.58   2.58   4.80   5.00   5.50   5.80   6.20   6.80
Total Revenue (B$/m3) 1/                        1.6    1.70   2.70   5.30   6.50   7.3    7.6    7.9    8.6
Cost per m3 Sold                                2.2    2.40   2.60   2.60   2.40   2.60   2.70   2.90   3.10
Rate of Return 2/                             -5.4   -5.70  -3.00   1.60   1.70   1.20   1.20   0.90   1.60
Operating Ratio 3/                            135    141      97     49      44      47     47      50      46
(D e
1/ Total revenue includes sewer, water and connection fees.
2/ Income before interest divided by average rate base where
rate base is Net Revalued Fixed Assets.
3/ Total Operating Expenses divided by Total Revenue.



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2 pages
BOLIVIA
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TARIFFS
1.        The Government of Bolivia established a National Tariff Council
(CNT) in 1973 as a part of MUV. Ministerial Order No. 133 of April 3,
1974 established national tariff standards and was amended July 1976.
The order is now being enforced and is an adequate instrument to attain
sector policies.
2.        The tariff order divides communities into 4 classes by size
of population:
SUMMARY OF TARIFF ORDER 133 (AS AMENDED),
Charges for Water and                                                          Class 4
Sewerage to be Sufficient         Class 1         Class 2         Class 3      Under
to cover the cost of:          Over 50,000   10,000-50,000   2,000-10,000   2,000
Operation                           X                X                X           X
Maintenance                         X                 X               X           X
Interest on Loans                   X                X
Repayment of Loan Principal         X                X
Some Capital for Future
Investment                        X
Number of Communities               6               12
3.          The tariffs for water and sewerage services are defined by
category and by structure with a fixed monthly charge for a fixed quan-
tity of water consumed with an additional charge for additional consumption.
The charges for additional consumption can be stepped to give an increasing
block tariff.
The rate categories for Classes 1, 2 and 3 are: (a) Residential,
(b) Commercial, (c) Industrial, (d) Public Buildings, (e) Special.
The water charges for small communities in Class 4 are levied
as a fixed monthly charge equal for all users.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2 pages
Charges for Sewerage Services
The tariff order provides that the costs of operating a sewer-
age service should be recovered by a fixed monthly charge or a percentage
of the water bill. Whilst the intention is that sewerage services should
be fully financed by users, this does not apply in practice. With the
exception of the cities of Cochabamba and Sucre, the sewerage systems are
owned and operated and subsidized by the municipalities and not the Water
Undertaking.
Sucre
4.        The present (1975) tariff for Sucre is as shown below.  During
the project, the increase in charges will be varied so that the cost of
extending the service will be borne proportionately heavier by the larger
users by varying the charges for consumption above the basic quota and
by introducing differential charges for higher quantities. A tariff based
on those principles will be applied in Potosi.
MONTHLY WATER TARIFF - ELAPAS/SUCRE (1975)
- B$ -            _-M3 -         Charge for
Category             Fixed Charge      Fixed Quota      Additional M3
Residential              18                 10               1.0
Commercial               18                 10               1.5
Industrial               18                 10               1.5
Public Buildings         18                 10               1.0
Special                  18                 10               1.0



BOLIVIA
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
CORPORACION DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO
CORPAGUAS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR
LEGAL                          SECRETA      W-
|ENGINEERING   IIADMINISTRATIONI
DEPRTEN                                   DEPARTMENT I
DESIGN           CONSTRUCTION         ACCOUNTING             SUPPLY
DIVISION            DIVISION            DIVISION             DIVISION
STUY NDGROUNDWATER                                       PURCASIN
-|SECTION  I-           R
World Bank-15679






BOLIVIA
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
ADMINISTRACION AUTONOMA DE OBRAS SANITARIAS DE POTOSI
AAPOS
ADMINISTRATIVE
COUNCIL
GENERAL MANAGE R
lAGENERAL                                 MANGE
ALEGAL ADVISORAN
OPTERATION ANDPLY    MER S     EATIAND                                            DETRN
MAINTEND                     ITRBTINANCEPUBILLING                                                                                    ACCOUNTS
JAN 1976
Wo,Id B-1,--15678






BOLIVIA
URBAN AND RURAL COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
EMPRESA LOCAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE SUCRE
ELAPAS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
TECHNICAL                                                                                       ANDTINICHANICE
MAINTENAICOUCIL.ENERLNMAAGE
DEP ANRDT MLE N T                                                                                              N
CONSTRUCTION         TRANSMISSI  ~ON    SHPTRC A E                                                 WA E O SE       P R ONECET R RAINOILI GEENN
JAN 1976
World Sank 15677






BOL IVI A
URBAN AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Responsible                      1976                                               1977                                                             1 978
Agency          6    7    8    9   10  I11   1 2   1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   1 0   1 1  1 2    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    1 D   1 1   1 2
Divi-on ot Urban Engineering
Revise T-rff Order No  133                                                       MUV
P. ovde National Tariff Council and Project Evaluation Unit with power    MLJV
1,i enforce tarff co.venants
Pi eparn terms of reference for consultants. Select and hir  c-rsultants         DIU
lvi organization and training
Complete e-oluatioe case study                                                   DIU
Impler-en  consultants recommendation                                            MUv/DIU
CORIPAGUAS
WVater System
Presen t plans for, transfer of operation and maintenance reSpoi-sbilitie        CDOPP'CODFPO
to DepartmentalI Development Committee of Potost
Pres,ent plans for transfer of construction to Departmental Deeelop,rerr         CORPDODD
C-ry 00  nn fe  plans                                                            CORPJDDO
Purclhase_irrterrals and supplies for systems                                    CORP-                                m     -          -     -    -    --                                    -    -
Prepare draft agreem,ents for Community Water SsPpfrY Committee and              CORP
Departmental D-evelpment CommitteesT.Jn 98
Sirint anrnters ,th Cmmrnrutiy and Departmenta  ComtesCORP
Crrs    f icri   i systems                                               CORP
Sialar-1ize materias and designs                                                 CORP
Tecfrricl Assistance
Prepare ter,ms if reference                                                      CORP
Select and h,, ecoso rants                                                       CORP
Prepare .rr...r  cti,on anid operating manuals                                   CORP
fIrrpler,nee   icmrirdtr   and train staffI                                      CORP 
PELAPAS
Wvater Supply
Implement ne. tariff                                                             ELAPASICNT
Pre,par  iplar,,  arid spe-tltr tur,s for corals, tunnels and roads               ELAPAS
Ccrrrsrr1 vcrl-1crlt iE PLAPAS
Prepare irla-i sfi-fications ririfIirdinrt dcli--ents for distriburirrn           ELAPAS
r-t w Irrk-kdis, metnit, a-rr tteat men r pl-Ini spare par is
Prrirs  rirre-ils and erlurporeirt                                            ELAPAS
I  ,siii rutfpmie-  ant material                                              EL APAS-                                                                                                                    ----                                                        m
Prr,,bisfr er-marked tai, i sewe  system                                         ELAPAS
Pre,pare plans specrfrai-trrrs indl lidfirrg documents  rt sewer systeri          ELAPAS
P-rcas  and instal rum, plaWELPA
Eah-lrcr  pure                                                                   E LAPAS
Crrrsr ~t,er facilities                                                           EL APAS 
Technrcai Assistance
Prepare terms if reference f-r erreultar-is                                      FLAPAS
Se,lec  and tru, cor-sultaer                                                     ELAPAS
Imprlement -ecmme,nd1atinns anr  -urucrft                                        ELAPAS
Wirer Supply
trilieeer  ev u Z'ft                                                             AAEc7nS CNJ
E-,cute, ipev   rsal lri     oq rani                                             AAPOS
Preirure  untsarid  crecfrc irro   --r faor, ariditiveal ireesAAPOS
tsr.tierurri  riowrr      t- iri    aks 5,,ird accssirrti
P 'ci  diri  r~rir.ru..r.. ;-                                                    AAPOSN
I'd,'  .00    I. .'i<~~~.~~c,                       40/Co A                                                                                                          -in                                   n                      -    - 
T,.






BOLIVIA
URBAN AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
RELATIONSHIP OF MINISTRY OF URBAN AFFAIRS
AND HOUSING AND THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
[ GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA
'lIz'1
MINISTRY OF URBAN AFFAIRS
AND HOUSING (MUV)
NATIONAL TARIFF COUNCIL
(CNT)
DIVISION OF URBAN ENGINEERING
(DIU)
PROJECT EVALUATION UNIT
l                      l
ADMINISTRATION OF        LOCAL COMPANY
WATER AND SEWER        WATER AND SEWER            FOR WATER
ICORPORATIO               WORKS               AND SEWERAGE
(CORPAGUAS)              (AAPOS)                (ELAPAS)
r                             ~~~~~~~~~~~KEY:
|  COMMUNITY   |                             a ipolicy and rate
WATER SUPPLY                               functional
COMMITTEES                                responsibility
World Bank-15996






IBRD -11984
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
',UM ANDRURAL COMM'UNIIE
RIB    AL_   S                    _  , S  0E A
,,,,m,,,,01 NM:                                           5 X      wk S2\  "
00
't'E-''"''''''''-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SoreX?s,iz _.-(. .s 
JXIAMAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRC
\- ;- - - J j > \ 8 N/    -   P    A   eiet        A    Y- 
 0    <   ~ ST s '0    -                  M L t   | 
rS"''~~~~~~~~~~~~at Ana2






IBRD 11985
FEBRUARY 1976
~~~~ /   j ,    a           n       on ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~La, PCiJ ;ca
M S         \    g      |                 ~~~SAN ILDEFONSO DAM   7                        /4                       SYSTEM             \
S N              E
|  Seoaata     " SAN         'SAN  IIDEFONSO   SYSTEM DAM,                                       L TEM
' SAN  SEBASTIAN   SYSTEM                          ,t C  i3                   -
,}0--                                                                       ,' \\ / ~~~/ 
4-50s~-
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                                                   -- \   
J    ~~  <  CH4lVIRI DAM   CA        RI  SYSTEM
BOLIVI A
Urban and Rural Communities Water Supply and Sewerage Project
POTOSf WATER SUPPLY                                                                                    _                          Sna
Location of Works
Proposed works:                              Existing works:
Dom                                    I     Dams
Intake works                              --       Water supply lines
Water supply lines                     U    Treatment plant         0           I          2          3          4           5
~=g Tunnel                               ,TL/Area served                                        KILOMETERS
Treatment plant to be expanded                                                                           23
Proposed expansion of area served            RoadsII                                                                                af
a---,-Railroad                                      MILES
Watershed boundaries
Lakes (mean elevation, meters)
Th~   c,.d,a, ,c.,  c,an   ,,pd






IBRD 11986
ZR, Ravelo diversion dam and intake                                                                                                     BOL IVI A                            FEBRUARY 1976
tn;akelunnel                 6                  tr                                           Urban and Rural Communities Water Supply and Sewerage Project
SUCRE WATER SUPPLY
Locotion of Works
iCaanarck                            Punilla                             Proposed works:                             Existing works:
1s\KM-3.2                                                                                    AM   Dam and intake                              Pipelines
-\ l ,\ )  'Tunnels                                 Canals
Canal sections to be improved              Rivers
Treatment plant to be expanded        *    Treatment plant
Road to be built                      *    Storage tanks
(M-5.6 &S.8                                                                               AProposed expnsion of area served       *   Hydroelectric power plant
Uratoloya Tunnel                                                                                                                  Area served
t   (  &             1                    \                                             O        1      2       ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 4 5
\\>      \   ~~~~~~~~~~vico(~~bivco(mrp)                       uerGurro Lomo                                                    KILOMETERS
Cancha Canchacamp
\  Tunn'i I>                               V                                                  ,O                                     
\\   f ~~~KM- 11.2 & 11.6                                                                       6                                       MILES
\$y lCo)nch\>1                                   <            g         snt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Catoltina
<   lcamp) (gK M ~13.1                                    
[:c ~5TNTORCA
AplanU c                                                              . v             /                             =,Treatment pirTm p
%  9  S | i i   i D!S            sTZA         0)                                        t /                                                                     \KM-9\K-3N  resu 
I n  ;Si,' I     X                                       Ct                                                                                   sucS S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F3mpc
The Sot,ndeefo nne                                                                                                                       Sucre
O;-ott |  d pt   At,ftttic                                                     Rw_               ufo hydortelctricArosve
oc- OF.n                                                                                                                                                             tO the dzslw
prmpy en- e--..en  . ..epne  by  hek
_.  _L  WpOtdb,t,t tP ~ditatetttl          



