CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1324 BO
PART C PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Urban and Rural Communities
Water Supply and Severage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND LEVELOPMENT
and
CORPORACION DE AGUA POTABLE
Y ALCANTARILLADO - CORPAGUAS
Dated October 15, 1976


﻿PART C PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 15, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and CORPORACION DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO - CORPAGUAS (here-
inafter called CORPAGUAS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween the Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million five
hundred thousand dollars ($11,500,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia,
that CORPAGUAS agree 'Zo undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a financing agreement between the Borrower and CORPAGUAS,
part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agree-
ment will be made available to CORPAGUAS on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CORPAGUAS, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the Gen-
eral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part C of the Project
Section 2.01. CORPAGUAS shall carry out Part C of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist CORPAGUAS in the (i)
establishment of standard designs and bills of materials for
the construction of typical rural community water supply systems,
(ii) production of operating manuals for the rural communities
maintenance staff, (iii) elaboration of procedures for coordination
of supplies and bulk procurement of imported materials by the DDOs,
and (iv) preparation of plans for the transfer of water supply
system maintenance and construction responsibilities to the DDOs,
CORPAGUAS shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) CORPAGUAS shall, not later than June 30, 1978 or such
other later date as the Bank shall agree, present to the Bank for
approval the designs, manuals, procedures and plans referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿Section 2.04. (a) CORPAGUAS undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by CORPAGUAS to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CORPAGUAS shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) CORPAGUAS shall furnish to the Bank, promptl
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part C of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) CORPAGUAS: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part C of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in Part C of the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Bank's represen,iatives to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in Part C of the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records


﻿-5-
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part C of
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
. (c) CORPAGUAS shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of CORPAGUAS and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. CORPAGUAS shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Financing Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, CORPAGUAS shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) CORPAGUAS shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part C
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Financing Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) CORPAGUAS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Part C of the Project, the accomplishrant of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by CORPAGUAS of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. CORPAGUAS shall take or cause to be taken all
reasonable measures to ensure that Part C of the Project is carried
out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.


﻿- 7
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CORPAGUAS
Section 3.01. CORPAGUAS shall at all times maintain its corpo-
rate existence and right to carry on its operations, and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.02. CORPAGUAS shall operate and maintain its plants,
equipment and property, and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. CORPAGUAS shall at all times carry on its opera-
tions, manage its affairs, and maintain its financial position,
all in accordance with appropriate business, financial and public
utility practices and under the supervision of experienced and
competent management assisted by adequate competent staff.
Section 3.04. CORPAGUAS shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. In order to assist CORPAGUAS in carrying out
the action specified in Part C.5 of the Project, CORPAGUAS shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
S


﻿-8 -
Section 3.06. CORPAGUAS shall: (i) not later than June 30,
1978 or such other later date as the Bank shall agree, with re-
spect to the Departments of Potosi, Cochabamba, La Paz and Oruro,
present to the Bank for approval a program for the transfer from
CORPAGUAS to the respective DDOs of the responsibilities for the
supervision of operation and maintenance of rural water systems
built by CORPAGUAS and for the construction of specific rural water
systems, and (ii) promptly thereafter put such program into effect.
Section 3.07. CORPAGUAS shall not commence construction of any
rural water system until it has concluded contractual arrangements
with the respective CWC and DDO. Such arrangements shall be satis-
factory t*i the Bank and shall:
(a) in the case of a CWC, provide for, inter alia, payment
to CORPAGUAS of such amounts as shall represent the cash, materials
and labor contribution of the rural community concerned to the
construction coat of their water system; and
(b) in the case of a DDO, provide for, inter alia, guarantee
of payment to CORPAGUAS of any amounts due to CORPAGUAS by the
CWC concerned under the contractual arrangements of CORPAGUAS with
such CWC.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
CORPAGUAS shall continue to utilize, in its selection of rural
communities for the construction of a water supply system, the
following criteria:.


﻿-9-
(i) desire and initiative of the community to obtain
a potable water supply;
(ii) existence of a community organization willing to
participate in the planning, building and operation
and maintenance of the water supply system;
(iii) willingness of the community to pay tariffs and
charges for the water supply service;
(iv) size and density of community's population;
(v) availability of safe, easily developed source
of water;
(vi) accessibility;
(vii) per capita cost of the water supply system;
(viii) capacity of the community to contribute funds,
labor and local materials to the construction of
the water supply system and to pay for the opera-
tion and maintenance of such system; and
(ix) capacity of the community to administer and
operate the water supply system.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. CORPAGUAS shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. CORPAGUAS shall: (i) have its accounts and fi-
nancial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of CORPAGUAS and the audit there-
of as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of CORPAGUAS thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     44oo98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              2L 2? (LCA  or
For CORPAGUAS:
Corporacion de Agua
Potable y Alcantarillado - CORPAGUAS
Casilla 6175
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
CORPAGUAS
La Paz


﻿- 13 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CORPAGUAS may be taken or executed by its
Executive Director or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. CORPAGUAS shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of CORPAGUAS, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by CORPAGUAS pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿-14-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CORPORACION DE AGUA POTABLE
Y ALCANTARILLADO - CORPAGUAS
By /s/ Jaime Delgadillo Cortes
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B and D hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for civil works in those rural communities where
CORPAGUAS determines, in consultation with the Bank, that competi-
tive bidding is not feasible shall be procured on the basis of local
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs


﻿6
- 16 -
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to CORPAGUAS of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fo.-
loved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Bolivia
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of CORPAGUAS and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Bolivia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Bolivia.


﻿- 1T -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, "he lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall 'Ie further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
CORPAGUAS may use force account for the civil works to be
carried out in very isolated rural communities.


