FILE Copy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Un
Report No. 179,a-MA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
July 16, 1973
Transportation Division
Asia Region
This report was prepared for offical use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -    Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1                -    M$ 2.33  /
M$ 1                -    US$0.429
M$ 1 million        -    US$429,185
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Bri-tish/us System
British/US                             Metric
1 mile (mi)                    -    1.6093 kilometers (km)
1 foot (ft)                    -    0.3048 meters (m)
1 square mile (mi2)            -    2.5898 square kilometers (km2)
1 cubic yard (cu yd)           -    0.7646 cubic meters (m3)
1 acre (ac)                    -    0.4047 hectares (ha)
1 long ton (lg ton)            -    1.0160 metric tons (m ton)
I long ton (lg ton)            -    1.1200 short tons (sh ton)
1 imperlal gallon (IMg)        -    4.545 liters (1)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
EPU       -    Economic Planning Unit
ER        -    Economic Return
GNP       -    Gross National Product
HPU       -    Highway Planning Unit
MOC       -    Ministry of Communications
mph       -    Miles per hour
MR        -    Malayan Railway
MWP       -    Ministry of Works and Power
PRD       -    Planning and Research Division
FWD       -    Public Works Department
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
VLD       -    Vallentine, Laurie and Davies
vpd       -    Vehicles per day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to Decenber 31
1/  From June 21, 1973 the Nalaysia  dollar h affloated
In relatlon to the US dollar. It Is expected that
the rate wIll be stabilized at 1M$ 2.33 - US$1, the
rate that applled during the first two weeks of July.
The prevlous rate was M$ 2.54 - US$1.



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......           ........................   i-i
I.    INTRODUCTION .........................................                  1
A.  The Project ......................                                  1
B.    Previous Transport Projects  .............. .                     1
C.    Bank Group Transport Lending Strategy ...........                 1
D.    Project Preparation ......           .......................      1
II.   THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR .          ..................... ......        2
A.    The Country and its Economy ..              ...................   2
B.   The Modes .......................................                  3
C.    Planning and Coordination .................                       6
III.    HIGHWAYS           .............................................         7
A.    The Network             .....................................     7
B.    Characteristics and Growth of Traffic ..........           .      7
C.   Administration ...............  .................. .               9
D.    Highway Planning .......          .........................      10
E.    Financing and Taxation ........... ..           .............    10
F.    Highway Engineering ......           .......................     11
G.   Highway Construction ............................                 11
H.   Highway Maintenance ......          ................. .           12
IV.    THE PROJECT ...................            .......................     13
A.    Description .....................................                13
B.    Cost Estimates and Bank Participation ...........    16
C.    Execution .......................................                18
D.    Financing .          ......................................      19
E.    Disbursements  .................           ..................    19
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..................................                 20
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS ........           ..............................       22
This report has been prepared by Messrs. H. J. Schlechtriem (Economist), R.
Mulligan (EMENA Engineer), and H. R. Young (Engineer).



-2-
ANNEXES
A.   Description of Project Roads
B.   Description of Urban Studies
TABLES
1.   Federal Government Investments in Transport During the First
and Second Five-Year Plans
2.   Annual Change in Length of Road Network, by Pavement Type and
Responsible Authority
3.   Motor Vehicle Registration
4.   Road Expenditures, 1967-71
5.   Revenues from Motor Vehicle Taxation
6.   Highway Design Standards
7.   Detailed Project Cost
8.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
9.   Average Daily Traffic Volumes on Project Roads
10.   Typical Vehicle Operating Costs (Excluding Taxes)
11.   Estimated Costs and Benefits
12.   Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
CHART
MAPS



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Federation of Malaysia covers the southern part of the Kra or
Malay Peninsula (West Malaysia) and the northeastern part of Borneo (East
Malaysia). West Malaysia's transport system is generally well-developed;
East Malaysia has only limited land transport by road and rail. The high-
way system totals some 11,000 mi (87% paved) in West Malaysia, and some
3,000 mi (19% paved) in East Malaysia. In an effort to improve road main-
tenance, the Government will shortly embark on a Road Maintenance Study by
consultants (to be Bank-financed under Loan 851-MA). In West Malaysia, the
Government-owned Malayan Railways operates a total system of 1,036 mi and is
presently carrying out a modernization program to Increase Its efficiency
and regain financial viability; in East Malaysia rail services (by the Sabah
State Railways) are being maintained until roads have been improved. The
main ports in West Malaysia are Klang and Penang. Port facilities in Penang
are adequate; those in Klang are presently being expanded. Long-term
investment requirements In both ports are presently being studied. A port
improvement program is underway in East Malaysia to bring its six major
ports for seagoing traffic up to a satisfactory standard. There are eight
airports in West Malaysia and nine in East Malaysia; an airport improve-
ment program is underway.
ii.       The Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75) allocates a total of about
M$ 1.2 billion, or 16% of all public development expenditures, to invest-
ments in the transport sector. This is more than double the M$ 545 million
spent on transport during the First Malaysia Plan (1966-70), which then
represented 13% of total public investments. The transport part of the
Second Malaysia Plan is based on the 1968 Malaysia Transport Survey, which
was financed by UNDP with the Bank acting as executing agency. The Transport
Survey and the Plan emphasize the Improvement and extension of West Malaysia's
existing transport facilities in all modes. In East Malaysia high priority
is assigned to improving road and port facilit s         ff,dlnV ewT- e region's
sparse population-and-diff$ieilt tterrainj,_te -providing air serQice to reiote
oeaSs.  The Government has now started a mid-ttiifteview of the 5a7 and'
anticipates an increase in the transport allocation.- The two main transport
planning agencies have been strengthened by two UNDP-financed advisers.
Among the transport policy matters which are presently under review are the
road user charge system and the road licensing system.
iii.      The Bank is financing three transport projects In Malaysia:
the first, a port project in Sabah in East Malaysia (Loan 774-MA, May 1971),
the second, a railway project (Loan 799-MA, November 1971), and the third,
an urban transport project (Loan 851-MA, May 1972) in West Malaysia. All
three projects experienced slight initial delays in their execution but they
are expected to be completed by their respective closing dates.



- ii -
iv.       The presently proposed fourth transport project includes:  (a)L-con-
t  structinand mrovement of abot.90 mi of Malaysia's main highway (Route I)
I in the  icinity of Kuala Lumpur; (b) construction supervision by consultants;
(c) retroactive financing of a supplementary feasibllity study and detailed
:engineering of about 22 mi of Route I; (d) detailed engineering of about
200 mi of road; and (e)_two urban development studies. The construction
element of the project is based on a highway feasibility study by consultants
in 1971, which was UNDP-financed with the Bank acting as executing agency;
detailed engineering, also by consultants for most of the works, was financed
under Loan 1851-MA (urban highway project). A supplementary feasibility study
and additional detailed engineering were required to complete the preparation.
Retroactive financing for this work, not to exceed US$100,000, is included
in the Project. The project was appraised in December 1972 and January 1973;
an updating mission was made in April 1973.
v.        The estimated cost of the project_UIS4$37-.Z-zil.IAon, with a
proposed Bank participation of US$19.5 million, or 53%. Cost estimates for
road construction are based on detal-led quantity estimates and unit prices
which were developed by the consultants for each work item and checked
against bids received for recent civil works contracts. The costs of con-
struction supervision, detailed engineering and urban studies are based on
recent contracts for similar work in Malaysia. During loan negotiations,
project cost estimates were reviewed in the light of bids for part of the
works, received on June 18, 1973.
vi.       Responsibility for project execution, except for one urban study.,
'will be vested in the Public Works Department (PWD) 'id the Ministry of Works
-and Power, (MWP), assisted by consultants for the construction supervision,
one of the urban studies and the detailed engineering.  The Economic Pla=nng
Unit,-iwtIVfis. the-Government's central planning agency, will be responsible
for the othere-urbaxr develpmepnt study.  The study will be carried out by
consultants. Contracts for the civil works will be awarded after international
competitive bidding. Where appropriate, contracts are being tailored to the
financing and working capabilities of the local construction industry. The
kids opened on June 18, 1973 indicated a good response from local contractors
for the smaller contract. The Government had the consultants study the
possibility of using labor-intensive construction methods, but because of
the higher cost and longer construction period involved, the Government
decided to tender the contracts in the conventional way. Even so, the
project will provide direct employment for about 2,000 men over the three-year
construction period.
vii.      The proposed Bank loan of US$19.5 million will finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project. Loan funds will be disbursed on the basis of
55% of the cost of road construction and improvement (the estimated foreign
exchange component for this item) and the actual foreign exchange cost of
consultants' services (estimated at 35% for construction supervision; 30%
for the detailed engineering of Route I; 50% for the detailed engineering
of new roads and at 45% for the urban studies). The Government will finance
the local cost of the project, estimated at US$17.7 million.



- iii -
viii.     Construction and improvement of the road sections under this project
will benefit major segments of the population both by lowering cost of
personal travel and prices of consumer goods. The project will also contrib-
ute to a balanced development of the Klang Valley Region and, in the form of
reduced transport and travel costs, will offer inducements for industries
and other enterprises to settle away from the congested capital. In this
way, the project will indirectly support the Government's policy of restrained
growth for the capital area. Based on vehicle operating cost and time
savings, and reductions in road maintenance cost, the economic rates of
return for the individual sections range between 20 and 29Z.
ix.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$19.5 million to the
Government of Malaysia for a 24-year term, including four years grace,
reflecting the estimated economic life of the construction element of the
project.






MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A.  The ,roject
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has asked the Bank to assist In financ-
ing a project consisting of: (a) the construction and Improvement of about
90 mi of Route I, West Malaysia's main highway, and construction supervision
by consultants; (b) retroactive financing of consulting services for a
supplementary feasibility study and detailed engineering of about 22 mi
of Route I; (c) consulting services for detailed engineering of about 200 mi
of roads; and (d) consulting services for high priority urban development
studies (including some detailed engineering) In the Kuala Lumpur area and
two secondary growth centers.
B.  Previous Transport Projects
1.02      This proposed highway project will be the fourth Bank-financed
transportation project in Malaysia.  The first was axuportp_roJect in Sabah
(Loan 774-MA of May 1971), the second a railway    ret (Loan 799-MA of
November 1971), and the third an urban h1ghWy__VXAJgt_(Loan 851-MA of May
1972). Both the port project (para 2.13) and the railway project (para 2.10)
are slightly behind schedule because of the contractors' mobilization
difficulties and the railway's unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement
procedures, respectively. The urban project (para 3.02) had some initial
delays because pre-contractual works by the Government took longer than
anticipated.  However, ALU1hrt_ eroi e        _are nresently--esected. to be
completed by their respective closIng dates.
C.  Bank Group Transport Lending Strategy
1.03      The transport part of the Second Malaysia Plan is based on the 1968
Malaysia Transport Survey which was UNDP-financed with the Bank acting as
executing agency, and which was carried out by R. R. Nathan Associates
Inc. (US). All previous Bank transport projects, as well as this project,
were identified by the Transport Survey, and serve to increase the economic
efficiency of transport and to expand the capacity of existing transport
facilities in support of the Second Malaysia Plan.
D.   Project Preparation
1.04      The Transport Survey concluded that the maln tric_arteries
connecting the economic centers of the west 65EEi-iFT  West Malaysia require
additional capacity.  A Bank mission in August 1965-ldehtt-ified, nca thebsics
-of-the-Transport Survey, four high priority sections of Route I for feasibility
study. The feasibility study, financed by the UNDP under Phase II of the
Transport Survey, and carried out in 1971 by the Australian firm, Vallentine,
Laurie and Davies (VLD), determined the improvements required in these



-2-
sections. Detailed engineering is in progress by the same firm, partly
financed under Loan 851-MA. Two of the four sections are proposed for
construction under this project (para 4.02). The urban aspects of the
improvements proposed in the vicinity of Kuala Lumpur were reviewed by the
Klang Valley Regional Planning and Development Study, UNDP-financed with
the Bank acting as executing agency, and carried out by Shankland, Cox
Partnership (UK).
1.05      The urban development studies would be eligible for financing by
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).  However, the UNDP funds
for Malaysia are fully committed and there is no provision for new studies.
The Government has confirmed its intention not to request changes in the
program allocation and, consequently, has requested Bank financing for
these high priority studies.
1.06      This report is based on information provided by the Government
-and consultants and on findings of appraisal missions by Messrs. H. J.
Schlechtriem (Economist) in December 1972 and R. J. Mulligan (Engineer)
in January 1973. An updating mission consisting of Messrs. H. R. Young
and Schlechtriem was made in April 1973, at which time, also, Messrs. R.
Venkateswaren (Economist) and S. Hara (Economist) of the Urban Projects
Department completed the appraisal of the urban studies included in the
project.
II. THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
A.   The Country and its Economy
2.01      The Federation of Malaysia comprises 13 states in two separate
geographical areas of Southeast Asia. Eleven states are on the Kra or Malay
Peninsula (West Malaysia, 51,0002mi2) and two on the northeastern part of
Borneo (East Malaysia, 77,000 mi ), some 400 mi to the east across the South
China Sea. Malaysia has land borders with Thailand to the north on the
peninsula, and with Indonesia to the south on Borneo. It is separated by a
narrow sea channel from the island state of Singapore at the southern tip
of the peninsula which, until 1965, was part of the Federation. Of the total
population of 11.3 milliorn, 9.5 million live in West Malaysia and 1.8 million
in East Malaysia; average population growth is 2.6% p.a. Topography in both
West and East Malaysia is generally rugged, making internal transport often
difficult and costly.
2.02      A central mountain chain divides West Malaysia into the west coast
region and the east co&st region.  Protected by the mountains against severe
monsoons, and bordering on one of the world's most important shipping routes
(the Straits of Malacca), the-west coast has developed faster-thari the rest
of_the-a6untry.  Two-thirds of the population live there and work either in
-tiie main urban centers where industries have grown or in the important agri-
cultural and mining areas which produce, among other things, rubber and tin



- 3 -
for export. The states on the east coast and in East Malaysia are less
advanced and rely mainly on timber and palm oil production, and fishery.
2.03      The objectives of the Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75) are to reduce
income disparities berween t  region  and, since Malays represent the largest
group a  the-suAfety and are mainly employed in low income rural occupations,
to increase both their income and ownership of the means of production. Fur-
ther development of the manufacturing and agricultural sectors is expected
to be the main contributor in the Government's strategy to achieve these
objectives. Transport has a supporting but essential role in this strategy.
The Bank's December 1972 economic mission forecasts GNP to grow at 6.3% p.a.
in real terms, if Malaysia's export markets develop as envisaged. This is
slightly higher than the 6.0% achieved during 1965 to 1970. Correspondingly,
per capita income would rise from M$ 981 in 1971 to M$ 1,086 by 1975.
B.   The Modes
2.04      Reflecting West Malaysia's general pattern of settlement and level
of economic activity, the main transport corridor is along the west coast.
Of particular importance are the flows of foreign trade. Historically, a
large share of exports and imports was channelled through Singapore. Its
withdrawal from Malaysia resulted in a major shift of traffic to the ports
of Klang, west of Kuala Lumpur, and Penang in the northwest. It also con-
tributed to the growth of the economic centers along the west coast, partic-
ularly Kuala Lumpur, Johore Behru, Ipoh and Penang, which took over trading
and production functions previously in Singapore. The industries in these
centers increase the needs for intercommunication among them. Outside the
west coast corridor, transport flows are relatively small and consist mainly
of regional products moving to the west coast and consumer goods in the
opposite direction. The development of the east coast, including large
land development schemes presently underway or in preparation, will increase
the importance of these flows in the future.
2.05      The economies of the two East Malaysian states, Sabah and Sarawak,
are made up of a number of rather isolated developments along their coast
with little interrelationships. The main demand for internal transport is
to bring raw materials to the coast for export. Movement of goods between
East and West Malaysia mainly consists of the supply of consumer goods to
the East.
2.06      West Malaysia's transport system is generally well-developed and
consists of highways, railways, ports, coastal shipping, and aviation. The
system is adequate to meet present demand. Statistics on the relative im-
portance of the individual modes are scarce at present, but will be avail-
able in the near future as a result of a comprehensive transport data collec-
tion effort by the Planning and Research Division (PRD) of the Ministry of
Communications (MOC). The Transport Survey estimated for 1967 the total
freight transport output at over 2.0 billion ton-miles, of which 58% was
performed by roads, 32% by rail, and 10% by coastal shipping. East Malaysia's
transport system is still underdeveloped; it consists mainly of ports, coastal
and river shipping, and aviation. Land transport by rail and road is limited.
The different modes are described in detail below.



-4-
_Highways
2.07      West Malaysia has about 11,000 mi of roads, serving 716,000 motor
vehicles; East Malaysia has about 3,000 mi of roads and 80,000 motor
vehicles. Details on the highway sector are given in Chapter III.
_wxay
2.08      The Government-owned Malayan Railway (MR) is the largest railway
enterprise in Malaysia. In addition, there are some 40 short private rail-
way lnes in West Malaysia, serving mining developments and plantations,
and the Sabah State Railway in East Malaysia. The Sabah State Railway
carries mostly passengers between the coast and the interior; its services
are highly uneconomical, but are being maintained until roads have been
improved to carry the traffic. These road improvements are presently under
study.
2.09      MR operates a system of 1,036 route mi meter gauge and mostly
single track lines.  The system is roughly Y-shaped, with Singapore at the
base and the two arms extending from Gemas (137 mi north of Singapore), one
along the west coast and the other through the central part of the peninsula,
which link with the Thai railway system at the border. Freight traffic
has been increasing at about 6% p.a. during the 1960's, but declined in 1970
and 1971 by 5% p.a. to 674 million ton-mi. Passenger traffic decreased
steadily since 1960 to 334 million pass-mi in 1969, but increased in 1970
and l971 to 402 million pass-mi in the latter year. MR incurred deficits
since 1966 and revenues covered only 89% of operating expenses in 1970.
2.10      With Bank assistance (Loan 799-MA), MR has embarked on a modernization
program that includes dieselization, replacing obsolete rolling stock, improv-
ing planning and traffic costing, and gradually reducing the labor force.
The objectives of the program are to increase efficiency and to regain
financial viability for MR.
2.11      The country's main highway, Route I, roughly parallels the west
coast line of the railway. 'The consultants investigated the possible impact
of the proposed road improvements of Route I on the distribution of traffic
between road and rail in the feasibility study. They found that no signifi-
cant changes are to be expected. Most of the railway's freight traffic
consists of long haul bulk traffic, for which it has significant cost
advantages over road transport. Since rail passenger transport (third class)
is over 50% more expensive than bus (MA4.7 per mi vs. Mg3.0), and slower,
a major portion of rail passengers diverted to road transport in the past.
The balance of traffic between road and rail now appears to have stabilized
and the proposed road improvements are unlikely to affect the remaining
railway passenger traffic. However, the railway will carry a diminishing
proportion of total passenger .raffic in the future.



-5-
Ports
2.12      Port Klang and Port Penang are West Malaysia's largest ports.  Both
are administered by autonomous port authorities and handled in 1971, 3.9
million and 3.2 million tons respectively. The facilities in Klang are
presently being expanded; those in Penang are generally adequate. Long-term
investment requirements in both ports are presently being studied. Additional
terminals include Port Dickson, Malaysia's petroleum port, and a number of
small ports of regional importance. To accelerate the development of the
east coast, the Government plans the construction of a new port in Kuantan on
the east coast, and is constructing one in Johore Bahru opposite Singapore.
2.13      East Malaysia has six major ports, handling seagoing traffic:  Kota
Kinabalu, Labuan, Sandakan and Tawau in Sabah, and Kuching and Sibu in
Sarawak. Together they have a throughput of about 1.5 million tons of
general cargo. In addition, there are several minor ports and timber load-
ing points. New facilities in Kota Kinabalu and Sandakan are presently being
built with Bank assistance (Loan 774-MA); those in Kuching are being improved
with assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
Coastal ShiPping
2.14      Coastal shipping is no longer an important mode of transportation
in West Malaysia; it is still used for some shipments of petroleum and palm
oil, particularly along the east coast. Coastal shipping is of more signi-
ficance in East Malaysia, both for internal movements and for the supply of
consumer goods from West Malaysia or Singapore.
Aviation
2.15      Two of West Malaysia's eight airports, Kuala Lumpur and Penang,
are served by foreign airlines; East Malaysia has nine airports, three of
which are served by regional carriers. Demand for air travel increased at
about 18% p.a. between 1962 and 1970 and is higher in East Malaysia because
of the lack of adequate land transport. In 1970, West Malaysia's airports
handled a total of 818,000 passengers, including 513,000 in Kuala Lumpur;
East Malaysian airports handled 932,000. The Government recently had an
airport master plan study carried out by consultants and has embarked on an
airport improvement program.  The ADB is assisting in financing the ongoing
extension of Penang airport. The feasibility of feeder airline service in
West Malaysia (involving construction of a number of small airfields) is
presently being investigated.
2.16      The Malaysia Airline System provides domestic services and flights
to neighboring Thailand, Indonesia and Singapore, and also to Hong Kong.
The company was set up in December 1971 after the Malaysia-Singapore Airline
was dissolved, and operates seven Boeing 737 on international routes (flights
between West and East Malaysia are international because of intermediate
stops in Singapore), nine Fokker F27-500 on shorter domestic routes and three
small Britten Norman Islander aircraft on feeder services in East Malaysia.



- 6
C.   Planning and Coordination
2.17      The Transport Survey which reviewed all aspects of transport plan-
ning, operational policies and organization, identified investment require-
ments up to 1975. The Government generally accepted the Survey recommenda-
tions, implementation of many of which is well underway, partly financed
with UNDP assistance under Phase II of the Survey.
2.18      The MOC has the primary responsibility for transport planning and
policy. Through its own departments, or through its supervisory role over
Government enterprises, it is concerned with the development of all modes
of transport, except highways. Highway planning is done by the Highway
Planning Unit (HPU) in the Ministry of Works and Power (MWP).
2.' g     The MOC is assisted and advised in carrying out its resporsibil-
ities by the PRD. Both the HPU and the PRD have been strengthened by UNDP-
financed advisers. The Government intends to continue the advisory services
under bilateral financing, when the present contracts expire in July this
year. During loan negotiations, these arrangements were discussed and
confirmed. Tne PRD is making good progress towards becoming a leading force
in transport planning, but much of its staff is not sufficiently experienced
and the continuation of the advisory services is required to consolidate past
training efforts. Collaboration between the PRD and the HPU is good and
projects involving highways and other modes are being dealt with jointly.
The Economic Planning Unit (EPU), which is the Government's central planning
agency, supervises the implementation of the Plan (para 2.03) and takes a
broad interest ir. transport planning decisions.
2.20      The distribution of traffic among the different modes of transport
is determined by their relative service advantages and prices. There is no
evidence o0. any significant misallocation of traffic between modes. Strict
regulations of road transport, however, have led to an expansion of "own
account" trucking to the disadvantage of public trucking and, thereby, to
some overinvestment in vehicles (para 3.08).
2.21      Public transport investments in the Second Malaysia Plan total
about M$ 1.2 billion (Table 1), or about 16% of all public development
expenditures. This is more than double the amount spent during the First
Malaysia Plan (1966-1970), when Government deferred major investment
decisions W.-wtil the results of the Transport Survey were available. A
substantial portion (about 40%) of the transport investment in the Plan is
expected to be financed from external sources (IBRD, ADB, and bilateral aid
-rograms). The Second Malaysia Plan follows the basic investment pattern
set by the Survey, which placed emphasis on improving and expanding West
7Malaysia's exlsting transport facilities in all modes, and assigned in East
Malaysia hig'h priority to improving road and port facilities and, in view
of the region's sparse populatLin and difficult terrain, to providing air
services to remote areas. Roads (including PWD equipment investments)
represent 67% of the total transport investment in West Malaysia and 56%
iln East Malaysia. The Government has now started a mid-term review of the
Plan and artlcipates an increase in the transport allocation.



-7-
III. HIGHWAYS
A.  The Network
3.01      West Malaysia's network comprises about 11,000 mi of roads, of
which 87% are paved; East Malaysia's network comprises about 3,000 mi, of
which only 19% are paved (Table 2). Roads are classified for administrative
purposes into federal, state and local authority categories. A functional
classification will be developed under the Road Maintenance Study which will
start shortly (para 3.27).
3.02      The Transport Survey concluded that West Malaysia's road network,
which is relatively well developed in its western part, is generally adequate
for present needs. However-,i  fo_und that t_h,e  alnxIr.ffic arteries con-
necting the economic centers of the west coast require additional.capac...
to attVmiibdate traffic growth, and assigned highest priority to these im-
provementi6-'-- The Bank accepted the Survey recommendations and i'cunrrently
assisting the Government in the widening to six lanes of a 6 mi section of
Route II, the main connection from Kuala Lumpur westwards to the industrial
and residential town of Petaling Jaya and further to the port of Klang
(Loan 851-MA). Improvements of Route I, the main north-south artery, will
be undertaken under the proposed project. Outside the west coast corridor,
the Government is giving emphasis to improving east-west connections, partly
within the context of regional development programs. The ADB is assisting
the Government in financing the construction of an east-west highway parallel
to the Thai border (Grik to Jeli) and improvement of Route II from Kuala
Lumpur to the east. Most of the roads in East Malaysia are in the areas
served by the ports and the Government's efforts focus on interconnecting
these roads.
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
3.03      West Malaysia's motor vehicle fleet grew at an average annual
rate of 10% between 1966 and 1971 (Table 3). About 716,000 vehicles were
registered in 1971; more than half of this number are motorcycles, which
also are the fastest growing vehicle category. Some 90% of the fleet is
concentrated in the west coast states, with about 30% in the State of Selangor
in which Kuala Lumpur is located. Motor vehicles are in ample supply from
local assembly plants. Import of motor vehicles into West Malaysia is
regulated and subject to protective import duties, amounting roughly to the
difference between the prices of locally produced vehicles (including taxes)
and the cif prices of imports.
3.04      In East Malaysia, the motor vehicle fleet increased at a slightly
faster rate (11% p.a.) and totalled about 80,000 (including 24,000 motor-
cycles) in 1971. Most of the vehicles are located in the two state capitals.
3.05      The distribution of traffic on West Malaysia's road network
reflects the concentration of the vehicle fleet on the west coast. Traffic
on most sections of Route I in 1970 was above 4,000 vpd; this compares with
1,500 vpd on the main road along the east coast, and between 1,700 and



- 8 -
4,400 vpd on the main east-west link. Traffic growth rates are lower on
the west coast (6 to 8% p.a.) than in the other parts (15 to 18% p.a.).
Roads in East Malaysia are lightly trafficked, with volumes generally below
500 vpd.
3.06      Public transport of both passengers and goods is strictly regulated
in West Malaysia, but not in East MHlayfiA    The Road Transport Licensing
Board, under the MOC, administers a complicated licensing system. For
intercity passenger transport, the most important  icenses are those for
,uses and taxis. Bus licenses cover routes, schedules and maximum fares;
taxi licenses cover maximum fares only.  Maximum fares are fixed on the
basis of M410/passenger-mile for buses and Mg40/mi for taxis (4 seats).
Services seem generally adequate and actual fares are lower than the maximum
rates because of competition.
3.07      Licenses for goods transport are divided among "hire and reward"
carriers (A licenses); carriers for own goods (C licenses); and carriers
both for "hire and reward" and own goods (B licenses).  Issuance of B
licenses has now been discontinued and B license holders are being reassigned
to either "A" or "C" category.  Operations under A licenses are restricted
to zones (four in West Malaysia), but permits for interzonal movements are
granted freely.
3.08      Changes in the -Implementation of the licensing system during the
1960's resulted in distcrtions of the road industry.  To achieve the objective
of an ownership racial balance in the road transport Industry, most applica-
tions by non-Malays fcr A licenses were rejected. Few Malays applied, how-
ever, partly because of lack of experience and tradition and partly because
of difficulties in gaining access to finance, business contracts, etc.
The effect was to produce a slow increase in general trucking capacity
and a disproportionate growth in private trucking (C licenses), for which
licenses were granted without regard to race. Malay and non-Malay manu-
facturing firms acquired their own trucks to overcome transport bottlenecks
and to illegally engage in general trucking operations. The Government
is aware of these problems and has taken some steps to ease the situation.
The PRD Is presently studying ways of converting the "proof of need" system
of road licensing into a market-oriented one. Regulation of entry will
probably be naintainec to achieve a targeted minimum participation of Malays
of 30% in the industry; but quotas will be set more in accordance with
demand, and training programs, financial and technical assistance by the
Government are likely to be stepped up.
3.09      Over two-thirds of the 3,700 trucking firms in West Malaysia are
small, owning one vehicle only; there is also a large number of medium-sized
firms (more than 100, w-wth five or more trucks) especlal.ly along the west
coast.  In 1972-the-Government set up ah ational Haulage Corpor&ti9p_witW
the objective of promtilng th_ Maliayparticipation  in thehirmti.  This
is now the largest haulage ernterprise in the country with a fleet of about
120 trucks, mostly 10-ton capacity. The Corporation caters particularly
to port and timber traffic, generally in competition with the private sector
fa.rms. It enjoys some privileges such as permission to operate over the



-9-
whole country, and exemption permits for heavy trucks. It is still too
early to assess the Corporation's ability and the impact it may have on the
industry as a whole.
C.  Administration
3.10      The Ministry of Works and Powey AIqP)is responsible for the
planning, design and construction of federal roads, the maintenance of
federal roads and the allocation of federal maintenance funds for state roads.
P.ighway planning is done by its "iway Planning Unit (HPU), which was
recently placed uder the S   etary  nser-Alof the Ministy.  All other
responsibilities  wr with         lic Works Department (PWD) within the MWP.
There are 11 state PWDs within the-staLe goVernmenr '--  1wt Malaysia, and
one each in Sabah and Sarawak. In addition to its state-financed road
commitments, each administers all federal road construction and maintenance
work on an agency basis with the exceptions of the city of Kuala Lumpur
and the Municipality of Ipoh, for which the Federal PWD retains responsibility.
3.11      The Federal NWD is organized under a Director General who has
two,deputies, one responsible for development, the other for engineering
services (see Chart). The Deputy Director General for Development super-
vises five operational divisions: Roads, Buildings, Water Supplies,
Education, and Armed Forces Works; the Deputy Director General for Engineer-
Ing Services has five divisions: Mechanical, Quantity Surveying, Electrical,
Stores and Accounting. A Design and Research Division reports directly to
the Director General.
3.12      The Roads_Dtvision of the Federal PWD, is controlled by a Director
and is divided into, f vORiS          Planning, Design, Project Coordination,
Implementation, and Federal Land-Development Projects. The Project Coordi-
nation Section is responsible for major projects, the Implementation Section
for federal road construction and improvements, and for maintenance.
3.13      There are some apparent anomalies in the organizational structure;
for example,th-hesign.Section can engineer roads, but not bridges, which
-are-7fie responsibility of the Director General's Design and Research Division;
the Materials Laboratory is similarly remote from the Roads Division, its
largest customer. Nevertheless, the present organization functions well
and makes good use of the limited staff available.
3.14      In general, the Roads Division functions efficiently; however,
its operations are to some extent constrained_ b-st.aif.hortages-..- Seilior
staff is generally competent and was- In-yRsf trained under Phase II of the
Transport Survey. Of the 80 established posts for engineers, half are
vacant. Government has not been as successful in attracting the few local
graduates to its service as the private sector because of its less competi-
tive salaries; some preferential treatment given to indigenous races compared
with other ethnic groups also inhibits recruitment. However, as a result
of a vigorous recruitment campaign overseas, a number of expatriate engineers
have entered Government service on three-year contracts. Additionally,
experienced local engineers can now be hired on contract and all junior



- 10-
engineers are now required by law to serve two years with the Government
after graduation. Some from this latter group are expected to remain in
Government service after their compulsory service is completed.
3.15      The 13 state PWDs are organized similarly to the Federal PWD.
However, in the states a single engineer may have to deal with water sup-
plies, and buildings, as well as roads, as in most cases the volume of work
does not require a specialist in each field. The professional staffs are
normally paid from the state budgets but are provided on rotating assignments
trom the Federal PWD. Staff for specific projects are sometimes provided
and paid by the Federal PWD. The Directors of the state PWDs have dual
responsibilities: to the Federal PWD for the timely execution of federal
construction and maintenance, and similarly to the state governments for
work approved by the State Works Committees and Legislatures. In general,
the state PWDs operate efficiently.
D.   Highway Planning
3.16      Since in its staff recruitment efforts the Government understand-
ably gave emphasis to project execution, the HPU until recently, was under-
staffed and as a result not a fully effective instrument of national highway
planning. The UNDP-financed adviser to the HPU became involved more in the
direct work of the Unit than in the training role for which he was intended.
The staffing of the Unit rtw has improved and the Government intends con-
tinuing the advisory assistance (para 2.19) to meet the need for staff
training.
3.17      Considering its limited staff, the HPU does a sizeable amount of
work. An extensive program of traffic surveys is carried out annually
and, in close collaboration with the Roads Division, feasibility studies are
made for projects, though not yet on a regular and systematic basis. The
Unit also actively participates in the PRD's studies and collection of
transport data.
E.   Financing and Taxation
3.18      Total expenditures on federal and state roads in West Malaysia
increased from M$ 64.4 million in 1967 to M$ 90.6 million in 1971, and in
East Malaysia, from M$ 36.2 million to M$ 53.4 million (Table 4). Most of
these exp, A       --*,re financed through the federal budget, with the states
being zesponsible only for the administrative cost incurred in the state
PWDs and a minor part of maintenance and improvement expenditures.  Budgets
are prepared annually within the framework of the Second Malaysia Plan. The
federal highway budget is prepared by the Director of Roads, in consultation
with the HPU, for the Director General of the PWD.  It is reviewed by the
MWP before being approved by the Estimates Sub-Committee of the National
Development Planning Council. State highway budgets are prepared by the
Directors of the state PWDs and they are subject to approval by the res-
pective State Works Committees and state legislatures.
3.19      Highway expenditures are financed from general budgetary resources,
supplemented by domestic and foreign loans (para 2.21). Road user taxes are



not earmarked but form part of the general revenue. In West Malaysia,
revenues from these taxes (Table 5) irncreased faster than roacl expenditures
and in 1971 amounted to nearly five times the expenditures. Revenues in
East Malaysia equaled the cost of administration and maintenance plus about
half of the road development expenditures. The Transport Survey assessed the
structure of existing taxes and their incidence on particular user groups
and found that heavy vehicles were undercharged; e.g., the tax on diesel fuel
is M$ 0.20/IMg as compared with M$ 1.40/IMg on gasoline. The PRD is presently
reviewing the road user tax system.
3.20      Although the Government does not have an explicit policy for
financing road expenditures by road tolls, it presently collects tolls on a
13 mi section of Route I between Tanjong Malim and Slim River (north of
Kuala Lumpur) and at two bridges in the State of Johore. These tolls form
an insignificant source of total road user revenue (less than 1%). Tolls may
considerably reduce the benefits of the facilities to which they are applied.
4Jurlinloan-negotiations the question-of tollswa discussd and the Govzrnment
agreed that for the Sections of Route I In the project:  it wQul& not .tkeany
measures which would adversely affect their economic utilization; and would
not impose tolls or similar charges without prior consultation with the Bank.
F.   Highway Engineering
3.21      Geometric design standards for federal and state roads have recent-
ly been revised to reflect modern traffic needs and are satisfactory. However,
pavement desi&  ±s baaedWon the legal maximum loading of eight long tons on a
singIe axiif, which appears low. Because vehi&le overIoadlrg - i8 lfail-y-C cnmon,
particularly by timber lorries and fuel tankeiw:tt ru1aoMiTtnFeinance
Study (para 3.27) will recommend, on the basis of an economic analysis, the
optlimum vehicle weights and axle loading to achieve the minimum overall
economic cost of road transport. The pavement of the project roads is
designed initially to carry projected traffic (of present axle loadings) over
about a 10-year period until subsequent strengthening under maintenance
operations, which is acceptable. *hould the Government decide to permit
heavier vehicles on the roads as a result of the recommendations of the Study,
a somewhat earlier strengthening of th1e-avement would be required.
3.22      The PWD Design Section prepares detailed plans for project execu-
tion, and operates satisfactorily. However, in recent years shortage of
staff has induced Government to employ the services of consulting firms for
feasibility studies and project design. Foreign consulting engineers have
been engaged for larger works and several are currently operating in the
country. Increasing use is being made of the services of the few local
firms, and this trend is expected to continue.
G. Highway Construction
3.23      The Roads Division of the Federal PWD is responsible for the
construction of all federal roads. It is directly responsible for these
projects within Kuala Lumpur and, to the extent that staffing constraints
permit, for some others of particular importance, such as the road sections



- 12 -
in this project. State PWDs execute the remainder. About 80% of all roadworks
(exc1.uding structures) are built by force account using the Federal and
state PWDs' equipment fleets and permanent work force. The Federal and
state PWDs hold about 1,600 items of major heavy construction equipment and
employ a permanent labor force of about 5,000. With these resources, Govern-
meat can execute about M$ 20 million of road construction a year.  The quality
of work Is generally good.
3.24      The Government wishes to foster the growth of a contracting in-
dustry able to assume an increasing share of the expanding volume of road
construction. Competent local contractors build about 95% of all reinforced
concrete structural work, and the few local firms with earth-moving capabil-
ities are being encouraged to better equip themselves for road construction
operations. About 40 local contractors are prequalified for highway struc-
tures and about 10 are capable of undertaking roadwork. This project will
provide opportunities for the local inc'ustry to be awarded contracts of
a size suited to its technical and financial capabilities.
H.  jihway Maintenance
3.25      The state PWDs maintain the highway network using funds provided
by the Federal Government. The workload is divided among 49 district
offices within the 13 states; these employ a total road maintenance labor
force of about 8,000. Thz2^e is no separate maintenance division within
the Federal PWD, and maintenance matters are handled by the Implementation
Section along with its other activities. Similarly, the state PWDs do not
assign engineers specifically to maintenance duties; the work of each
engineer is a mix of many different tasks.
3.26      in accordance with Malaysia's Constitution, the National Finance
Council determines the maintenance allocations for state roads. These
allocations are made on an arbitrary per mile basis which takes no account
of actual maintenance needs. In 1970, the approved rate was raised from
M$ 4,500/ml (the rate since 1960) to M$ 4,600/mi, excluding the cost of
administration and equipment depreciation.  Although the Federal PWD channels
these funds to the states, it has no direct control over their expenditure
beyond auditing the annual accounts. On the other hand, funds for federal
road maintenance, which are budgeted separately, are not subjected to the
same contro.2 by the National Finance Council; funds may therefore be allo-
cated where needed. The current expenditures on federal roads average
M1$ 5,600/mi, excludIng costs of administration and equipment depreciation,
but -;ncludLng provis3on for resurfacing 10% of the network annually. Total
expenditures only are recorded; no attempt is made to cost out different
maintenance operations.
3.27      Although these allocations are generous by developing country
standards, the results of maintenance efforts, while generally satisfactory,
are not commensurate with them.  There is a regular resurfacing program,
but routine or preventive maintenance needs to be systematically organized.
A Roae. ria-ntenance Study, to be financed under Loan 851-MA, will be started
shortly by the consulting firms, Xampsax (Denmark), and Sepakat Setia
Perunding ,Malaysia).  It is designed to provide a detailed maintenance



- 13 -
program and is expected to identify neeLed _rgniazational and operational
improvements, as well as staiThfiraining and equipment requirements, and
propose methods for systematic planning and execution of maintenance works.
During loan negotiations, the Government confirmed its intention to implement
the study findings in consultation and agreement with the Bank.
3.28      The PWD's equipment fleet which is used for both maintenance and
construction, is old (35% being more than 10 years old), but due to the
excellent repair and overhaul facilities, is in relatively good condition.
The Maintenance Study will determine whether it is feasible to replace the
old vehicles earlier in order to reduce repair expenditures.
IV.  THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The Transport Survey identified ti  ned  to imprn>:e   ard ehe
capacity of the existing mai*t route on the west coast of Malaysia (Route I),
and 'pr§6dT?edT the basis for the selection of  iu   gh P---it hni s  (see
Map) to be further investigated by the Government's consultants, Vallentiae
Laurie and Davies (VLD) under a UNDP-financed feasibility study. After the
study findings as to the type of improvement required were agreed by both
the Government and the Bank, VLD also carried out the detailed engineering
(para 4.07).
4.02      Two of the four sections (Sections I and II) are included in the
present project; the other two have been deferred. Section III, which
provides for the relo iii7 of~6uiteI north of Ipoh to a shorter alignment,
was omitted because fjurther-.technical investigations are required, including
the location and design of a long tunnel-and the selection of the best by-
pass route around Ipoh. Section IV, covering the improvement of the
approaches and thoroughfare of Butterworth, had to be deleted from the
project because of unexpected right-of-way proble,*s in the center of the
town.
4.03      The proposed project comprises:
(a)  the construction and improvement of two secti    of Federal
Route I, totalling about 90-mi in leiithgTf'and supervision
by consultants;
(b)  retroactive financing of consulting services for. a supplementary
feasibility study and detailed engineering of about 22 mii'of
Route I and connecting roads in the vicinity of Kuala Lumpur;
(c)  consulting services for the detailed engineering of about 200mi
of roads which may be considered for a futurtpT6ject; and
(d)  consulting services for high priority-wrbdaL evopment-.tudies
(including some detailed engineering) in metropolitan Kuala Lumpur
and two secondary growth centers.



- 14 -
Construction._Ipr ovement and Spervision
4.04      Two separate sections (Annex A) of Federal Route I will be con-
structed or improved:
(a)  Section I from Kuala Lumpur to Seremban in the south, which
involves the wldeningt.-o four lanes of about 3 mi, a bypass
of about 'I ml and the impr gyent to acceptable geometfil
standards and adequate pavement strength of about 13 mi of
existing two-lane road and, on a parallel alignment, the
construction of about 38 mi of four-lane divided expressway,
asbout 3 ml of two-lane expressway, 5 mi of connecting and
access roads, and two grade separated Interchanges (first
stage) at the Seremban end and in Kuala Lumpur; and
(b) Section II, comprising about 23 mi of selected improvements
to both the geometry and pavement strength of the existing
two-lane road between Batu Caves on the northern outskirts of
Kuala Lumpur and Mi 30 on Route I, about 2 mi of widening
to four-lanes, and about 1 mi of connecting road between Kuala
Tumpur and Batu Caves.
4.05      The highway sections traverse rolling to hilly terrain.  The
expressway in Section 7will be built on a new alignment while Section II
Involves mainly improvement to the existing road. No unusual soil conditions
have been encountered except in the immediate vicinity of Kuala Lumpur,
where tin dredges are still operating. Special care has been taken in
selecting the alignment In these areas and in designing the road pavement
structure. The consultants' designs conform to the PWD design standards
(Table 6), which are acceptable.
4.06      The proposed works will satisfy traffic requirements in the most
economical way. Initially the expressway will be tied into an existing
four-lane (Sungai Besi) road by a traffic-signalled intersection. During
loan negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will widen the
Sungai Besi road to provide additional road capacity from the end of the
expressway into- the. cIty. The ongoing Transport Study,for Metroplitan
Kuala Lumpur which is financed 4ndex--the Bank's Urban Transport Project
(Loan 851-MA) and being carried out by Wilbur Smith and Associates (US), will
review the integration of the expressway into Metropolitan Kuala Lumpur.
During loan negotiations the Government- gave-assurances that it-will,
whilst taking into account other demands on its resources, formulat-, in
agre_iment with the Bank, a schedule for the implementation of the findings
of the study acceptable to the Government and the Bank.  The Transport Study
will also indicate possibilities of using the urban parts of the project roads
for improved public trarnsport. These recommendations, however, will concern
the operation of the facility only and are not expected to affect the design,
as presently proposed by the engineering consultants.



- 15 -
Detailed Engineering of Route I
4.07      The project provides for retroactive financing of foreign cost
not to exceed US$100,000 for a supplementary feasibility study and for detailed
engineering of about 22 mi of Route I and connecting roads in the vicinity
of Kuala Lumpur. These studies were required to complete the preparation
of the present project, axidwe6re carried out by VLD on terms and conditions
approved by the Bank. They relate to works on which recommendations of
the recently completed Klang Valley Regional Study had to be awaited.
Detailed engineering for the remainder of the improvements of Route I,
identified in the UNDP-financed feasibility study, was financed under the
Bank's Urban Transport Project (Loan 851-MA),
Detailed Engineering
4.08      The project includes detailed engineering by consultants for the
construction and Improvement of about 200 mi of high priority road sections
to be considered for a future Bank road project. The sections will be
selected jointly by the Government and the Bank on the basis of the current
review of the Second Malaysia Plan to be completed by October 1973, and
taking into consideration the results of feasibility studies by consultants
and the HPU. Timing and procedures for selecting these roads were discussed
and agreed during loan negotiations.
Urban Studies
4.09      The project includes financing of two types of urban development
studies: Town Development Studies for Kuantan on the east coast and for
the region of North-East Negri Sembilan; and an Urban Road Improvement Study
for Kuala Lumpur.
4.10      The Town Development Studies are an outcome of the Bank's
continuous and deeper -involvement in Malaysia's urban development following
the completion of the Klang Valley Study which dealt with the nation's most
advanced region.  The.studies will identify we.aauree-for the development of
secondary growth centers o-utside the Klang Valley Region and prepare high
priority projects for implementation.  Kuantan could be a major development
center in the backward east coast of West Malaysia; North-East Negri Sembilan
is located closely to Route I, and development of growth centers in its
neighborhood could slow down or reverse out-migration flow towards Kuala
Lumpur, and thus contribute to the achievement of the national objective
of balanced growth.  The Urban Road Improvement Study will idaatify_the
measures required for improved traffic circulation and distribution in
Metrofpolitan Kuala Lumpur, including road connections_bepfen Route II leading
into Kuala Lumpur from the west and the city's street system. The detailed
engineering of high priority items will also be included.
4.11      The studies, which will be carried out by consultants are expected
to result in future urban projects for which Bank financing may be requested.
Tentative descriptions of the studies are given in Annex B. Outline terms



- 16 -
of reference for the Town Development Studies were agreed upon with the
Government during loan negotiations. Information for the preparation of
terms of reference for the Urban Road Improvement Study will be based on
tie findings of the on-going Transport Study for Metropolitan Kuala Lumpur,
which will be available in late 1973.
B.   Cost Estimtes and Bank Particlation
4.12      The project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$37.2
million. The Bank participation is US$19.5 million, about 53% of total.
Costs are detailed in Table 7 and summarized below:



- 17 -
Summary Project Costs
M$ (Million)       US $ (Million)     Foreign
For-                For-         Exchange
Project Element          Local eign  Total Local eign  Total Component
I.  Construction and
Improvement
(a) Kuala Lumpur-
Seremban (Section I)  20.7  25.4  46.1    8.9  10.9  19.8    55
(b) Kuala Lumper North
to Mi 30 (Section II) 5.A  -Aa 6.5   -.a   .2& 2-8               55
Sub-total            26.1  31.9   58.0   11.2  13.7  24.9
II.  Supervision of I by
Consultants             2.8   1.6    4.4    1.2   0.7    1.9    35
III.  Feasibility study for
expressway extension
and detailed en-
gineering of about
22 mi of Route I and
connecting roads /a     0.5   0.2    0.7    0.2   0.1    0.3      30
IV. Detailed engineering of
about 200 mi of road    2.5   2.5    5.0    1.1   1.1    2.2      50
V. Urban development
studies                 2.6   2.1    4.7    1.1   0.9    2.0    45
Sub-total II-V        8.4   6.4   14.8    3.6   2.8    6.4
VI. Contingencies:
(a) Physical /b            3.4   3.8    7.2    1.5   1.6    3.1
(b) Price
(i) Construction/c    2.4   2.9    5.3    1.1   1.2    2.3
(ii) Consulting
services /d      0.6   0.5    1.1    0.3   0.2    0.5
Sub-total VI          6.4   7.2   13.6    2.9   3.0    5.9
Total Project Cost   40.9  45.5   86.4   17.7  19.5   37.2   53
/a   To be financed retroactively.
/b   10% on all items.
/c   7.5% (5% p.a.) on local and 10.5% (7% p.a.) on foreign cost.
/d   7.5% (5% p.a.) on local and foreign cost.



- 18 -
4.13      Cost estimates for the works in Section I (except for the express-
way extension) are based on bids opened on June 18, 1973. For the remaining
road construction, the cost estimates are based on unit prices developed by
VLD for each of the work items and checked against the Section I bids. The
costs of construction supervision, detailed engineering, and urban studies
are based on recent contracts for similar work in Malaysia. During loan
negotiations, the project cost estimates were confirmed with the Government.
4.14      Contingency allowances of 19% for construction and 17.5% for
consulting services are considered adequate. The 19% allowance on
construction consists of 10% for possible quantity over-runs, 7.5% for
local price increases (about 5% annually) and 10.5% for foreign price
increases (about 7% annually) over the period from the close of bids to the
completion of construction. The 17.5% allowance on the cost of consulting
services provides for a possible 10% increase in the man-mnwths required
and 7.5% for price increases.
4.15      The foreign exchange component of construction and improvement
works is estimated by VLD at 55% for foreign contractors and at 45% for
local contractors; since the Section I bidding indicates about 90% of the
civil works are likely to be carried out by foreign contractors, a 55%
figure is acceptable. The foreign exchange component is estimated at 35%
for construction supervision, 30% for detailed engineering of Route I, 50%
for detailed engineering of new roads, and 45% for the urban studies. The
reason for the relatively low foreign exchange cost for design and supervision
is that a large number of Malays are employed on this work.
C.   ExecuUton
4.16      The PWD will be responsible for the execution of all project
elements, except the Town Development Studies which will be the responsibility
of the EPU. Consultants will assist the PWD and the EPU by providing
construction supervision and carrying out the studies and detailed
engineering. The Government has indicated that it intends to engage VLD
for the supervision work. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the Government will employ qualified and experienced consultants for
,these purposes on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and that
contracts for-the-p-roposed road construction and improvement will be awarded
to prequalified contractors after international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement".
4.17      Contract documents for the works in Section I (except for the
expressway extension) were issued to prequalified contractors in March 1973;
bids were opened on June 18, 1973. The first contracts should be
awarded in September 1973. Detailed engineering for the remaining works
is well advanced and bids will be called in August/September 1973. Contracts
would range between about US$2.3 million and US$6.8 million in value, which
would give local contractors opportunity to participate in the smaller
contracts. Suitably prequalified contractors would be permitted to undertake
more than one contract section.  Construction should be completed towards
the end of 1976. During loan negotiations, the Government and the Bank



- 19 -
discussed and agreed on the timing of project execution and progress reporting
requirements.
4.18      According to Government records, about 8% of the labor force in
West Malaysia is unemployed. In its search for new means of job creation,
the Government has been exploring the possibilities of using labor-intensive
construction methods whenever possible. Both VLD and the EPU carried out
an investigation to determine the likely effect that shadow pricing labor
to 50% and 75% of current wage rates would have on a contractor's method
of operation, contract construction period, and financial cost of the
project. The investigation focussed on the two contracts of Section IV which
seemed particularly suited because their compact nature and their proximity
to the labor markets in Butterworth and George Town eliminated the need
for contractors to house labor on the construction site.
4.19      The Study recommended against the use of labor-intensive
construction techniques because of higher cost and longer construction
period, and confirmed recent findings of Bank studies elsewhere on the
subject that labor-intensive methods are not feasible for construction works
which involve haulage of materials over relatively long distances. Also
labor costs in Malaysia are comparatively high and contractors, even at a
shadow rate for labor of 50%, would find the use of equipment more economical.
The Government concurred with the consultants' recommendation and decided
to tender the works in the conventional way. With normal construction methods,
the contracts financed under this project will provide direct employment
for about 2,000 men over the three-year construction period.
4.20      The Government has adequate power to acquire the right-of-way
needed for the new road construction; acquisition is already well in hand.
During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
it will take all action necessary to obtain all the land needed for the
roads to be constructed before individual construction contracts are awarded.
4.21      While the ecological effects of the road improvement and
construction were not investigated in the feasibility studies, they were
considered in the Klang Valley Regional Study. No adverse effects are
expected from the proposed road works.
D. Financing
4.22      The Bank loan of US$19.5 million will cover tne foreign exchange
costs of the project; the Government will meet the local cost of US$17.7
million.
E.   Disbursements
4.23      Disbursements from the Loan Account will be on the basis of 5z,of
the total cost of construction and improvement _,1ws_aY nd 100i gn
costs of conaultants' services.  Based on these percentages, and on the
forecast of project-completion (para 4.14), a Schedule of Estimated
Disbursements (Table 8) has been prepared. Surplus funds remaining in the
Loan Account after completion of the project will be cancelled.



- 20 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      The project is to improve and expand Route I, Malaysia's main
highway, in the vicinity of Kuala Lumpur. The existing highway has sub-
standard geometric and technical characteristics and lacks the capacity to
handle traffic at reasonable costs. Kuala Lumpur's population has been
growing at 2.8%, a rate only slightly higher than the national average,
during the last 15 years and is now 450,000. However, the area around the
capital developed rapidly. About 1.2 million people live in the Klang Valley
Region, which includes the industrial and residential satellites of Petaling
Jaya and Shah Alam, and Port Klang to the west of the capital, and the rurai
towns of Rawang in the north and Kajang in the south; about 25% of West
Malaysia's GDP is generated there.
5.02      The proposed construction of a four-lane expressway and limited
improvements to the existing road between Kuala Lumpur and Seremban and
the short-term improvements north of Kuala Lumpur will benefit major
segments of the population, both by lowering cost of personal travel and
prices of consumer goods. The project will also contribute to a balanced
development of the Klang Valley Region and, in the form of reduced transport
and travel costs, offer inducements for industries and other enterprises
to settle away from the congested capital. In this way, the project will
indirectly support the Go-?ernment's policy of restrained growth for the
capital area. Detailed descriptions of the road sections are given in
Annex A.
5.03      The Government is carefully planning and directing the growth of
Kuala Lumpur and the Bank is closely associated with this process. The
recently completed Klang Valley Regional Study (para 1.04) reviewed the
development potential of the Klang Valley Region and provided the Government
with a comprehensive plan for its development up to 1990, corresponding to
the Government's social and economic policy objectives. The Transport Study
for Metropolitan Kuala Lumpur (para 4.06) will provide the Government with
a comprehensive plan of investment and policy recommendations to overcome
the city's traffic problem. The urban development studies included in this
project (pares 4.09-4.11) will continue this effort, but also will extend
to other urban growth centers in West Malaysia.
5.04      The project civil works were identified in the VLD feasibility
study as the initial investments needed in an optimum construction program
to accommodate traffic in the related sections up to the year 1990. The
consultants investigated the possibilities of phased upgrading of the
existing roads and construction of new roads and compared alternative
courses of action in terms of their discounted overall costs of road use,
maintenance and construction. The Klang Valley Regional Study reviewed the
results of the VLD feasibility study and proposed a future major road system
for the Region, which includes the Seremban expressway as an integral part.
A subsequent supplementary feasibility study (also carried out by VLD)
ident4fied the parts of the system which warrant inmediate implementation
and which are proposed in this project to provide access from the expressway
into the city.



- 21 -
5.05      The VLD traffic forecasts for the rural road sections (Table 9)
are based on a detailed traffic survey carried out in 1970 and, for
passenger traffic, on projections of population, vehicle ownership and per
capita income in a total of 37 zones of West Malaysia and, for goods traffic,
on projections of production and consumption of major commodities. Traffic
arising from large development schemes was assessed independently and added
to the "normal" traffic. The consultants attempted to relate their traffic
forecasts to the 1970 level of travel times and costs. Although 1971 and
1972 traffic counts indicate that the consultants' forecasts are on the low
side, they are acceptable. The traffic data developed by VLD for the extension
of the expressway into the suburban area of Kuala Lumpur are based on the
traffic analysis of the Klang Valley Regional Study and a limited number
of supplementary traffic counts. The Klang Valley Regional Study anticipated
that the Government, as a result of the ongoing Transport Study for
Metropolitan Kuala Lumpur, might adopt a policy of restraining the use of
private automobiles in the city and improving public transport, and assessed
the impact of such a policy on the road traffic volumes in the suburban
area. It found that the most severe measures would reduce forecast traffic
by only 3 to 6%. These figures seem low for roads in the immediate vicinity
of the city and in order not to over-estimate the benefits of the extension,
traffic there has been assumed to grow at the same rates as developed by
VLD for the rural section of the expressway. These are about haif the
rates experienced presently on existing roads in the corridor and lower than
those in the Klang Valley Regional Study.
5.06      VLD estimated costs of vehicle operation and passenger time in
accordance with road standards and traffic density. Vehicle operating costs
were established for nine vehicle types on the basis of estimates of major
cost items under different conditions. Typical vehicle operating costs
are given in Table 10. Time costs for passengers assessed for different
vehicle types on the basis of occupancy rates found in the traffic survey
and hourly earning rates of different road user groups are also shown in
Table 10. These values were tested against the differences in fares of
public transport which users are willing to pay for shorter travel times
and increased convenience, and found to be conservative. Since the greater
part of the time benefits (more than 70%) accrues to passengers either on
business or home-to-work trips, they are acceptable. However, they are
not critical for the justification of the road sections proposed.
5.07      Benefits of the proposed improvements were determined as the
difference in road user and maintenance costs with and without the project,
and are shown in detail in Table 11. Economic returns (ER) for the particular
sections (Table 12), calculated over an assumed 20-year service life of
the investments, range between 20% and 29%. The sensitivity of the ERs was
tested by varying construction cost by t 15% and benefits by ± 25%. Under
the pessimistic assumption of an increase in construction cost concurrent with
a decrease in benefits, the ERs range between 14% and 22%. If time benefits
are ignored, the ERs are between 10% and 19%.
5.08      Parallel to the appraisal of this project, the Bank carried out an
experimental social cost-benefit analysis on the Ipoh road section (Section



- 22 -
!II) which is not included in the project (para 4.02), using the Little-Mirrlees
appraisal method. 1/  This study valued project inputs and outputs at border
prices and arrived at shadow project capital costs 11% lower than developed
on the basis of domestic prices, maintenance cost savings 8% lower and vehicle
operating cost savings 14% lower. If shadow prices similar to those of the
study were used in the evaluation of the road improvements proposed under
the project, the ERs would not be significantly different from those given
5.)9      The evaluation of the project In terms of road user savings is
conservative and does not fully reflect its development impact.  The immediate
beneficiaries will be the States of Selangor and Negri Seibilan.  The Klang
Valley Regional Study predicts that the total population of the Region will
increase to 2.7 million in 1990.  To accommodate this increase of 1.5 million
in population, the Government and the consultants agreed on a settlement
pattern for the area which emphasizes development south of Kuala Lumpur.  Close
to KaJang, an ongoing project for a new university is to be expanded to a
major township, in which also light industry would be located, and which would
have a total population of 180,000 in 1990. Although the town is planned
to be self-contained with a minimum of inter-urban traffic demand, it can be
expected to lead to traffic additional to that forecast in the feasibility
study. The State of Negri Sembilan (500,000) presently is mostly agriculture-
based and the possibilities for expansion of this sector are limited.
Prospects for further econ.aic growth of the state mainly lie in further
development of manufacturing and tourism, which could take advantage of a
large pool of unemployed and underemployed labor. Industrial development
which at present is concentrated on two industrial estates near Seremban,
has been sluggish in the past but has accelerated recently and will be
furthered by the improved connection to Kuala Lumpur to be provided under
this project.
5.10      There is a danger that the development which will be induced by
the proposed road improvements, particularly the expressway, will not take
place in an orderly and properly organized fashion. To provide better
coordination between the various Federal, state and local Government agencies
involved in the regulation of land development, the Government followed a
recommendation of the Klang Valley Regional Study and set up in the State
Government of Selangor a State Planning and Coordination Unit. However, land
use regulation is not yet strictly enforced and private developers generally
get permission for changing designated land use and modifying building
retrictions.  During loan negotiations, an assurance was obtained from
the Government that it will control land use along the project roads,
particular.-y around intersections and interchanges, in order to promote
pianned urban development and avoid haphazard urban sprawl by private concerns.
I/   "A GComparison of the IBRD and little-Mirrlees Appraisal of a
Highway Project in YAlaysia" by Sudhir Anand, Central Projects Staff.



- 23 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  the arrangements to continue the advisory services to the
PRD and the HPU under bilateral financing (para 2.19);
(b)  the implementation of the Road Maintenance Study findings,
in consultation and agreement with the Bank (para 3.27); and
(c)  the timing and procedures for selecting road sections for
detailed engineering (para 4.08).
6.02      The Government gave assurances during loan negotiations that it
will:
(a)  not impose tolls on the project road sections without prior
consultation with the Bank (para 3.20);
(b)  provide additional road capacity from the end of the
expressway into Kuala Lumpur (para 4.06);
(c)  whilst taking into account other demands on its resources,
formulate, in agreement with the Bank, a schedule for the
implementation of the findings of the Transport Study which
relate to the expressway (para 4.06); and
(d)  control land-use along the project roads, particularly
around intersections and interchanges, in order to promote
planned urban development and avoid haphazard urban sprawl
by private concerns (para 5.10).
6.03      In view of the agreements reached and assurances given, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$19.5 million to the Government of Malaysia
for a 24-year term, including four years grace, reflecting the economic
life of the construction element of the project.
July 16, 1973






ANNEX A
Page 1
MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Project Roads
A.  Kuala Lumpur-Seremban (Section I)
1.        This section of Route I is the main access from the southern part
of West Malaysia to Kuala Lumpur (450,000) and the port of Klang. Regionally,
it connects Kuala Lumpur with Seremban (80,000), capital of the state of Nlegri
Sembilan, at the southern end of the section, and further with oil refineries
and sea resorts near Port Dickson, west of Seremban. Between Kuala Lumpur
and Seremban, there are several smaller towns and villages. The most important
ones are Cheras (14,000), just outside Kuala Lumpur, and Kajang (23,000).
Most of the land in the Kuala Lumpur-Seremban corridor is used for plantation
agriculture (mostly rubber, but also palm oil and coconut). Service activities
and normally small-scale industries form the economic basis of the uroan centers.
There are a number of state roads, particularly close to Kuala Lumpur and
Seremban, but no throughgoing alternative route exists.
2.        In 1970, traffic on the road ranged between 13,000 and 6,000 vpd,
being highest close to Kuala Lumpur and Seremban and lowest in the sparsely
populated center section. About 5,700 vpd travel the full length of the road.
Over two-thirds of the traffic is passenger traffic, consisting mostly of
business and home-to-work travel on weekdays and recreational trips to Port
Dickson on weekends. Traffic growth during recent years averaged about
9% p.a., but was higher near Kuala Lumpur because of large housing develop-
ments in Cheras and Kajang. The consultants forecast traffic to grow at
rates of about 10% p.a. up to 1980 and some 5% thereafter. The KLang Valley
Study consultants assessed the impact of policies restraining the use of
private motor vehicles in the city of Kuala 1zumpur and improving public
transport on the road traffic volumes in the suburban area and found that
the most severe measures would reduce the traffic by only 3% to 6%.
3.        Due to its winding nature, with poor sight distances, varying widths
and steep gradients, the existing road is inadequate to carry the forecast
traffic and some sections are already at capacity. Three improvement options
were investigated:
(a) to upgrade the existing road over its whole length;
(b) to upgrade the northern part of the existing road only,
and build a new southern section on an alignment which
avoids the mountainous terrain; and
(c) to build a completely new road and carry out limited
improvements to the existing road.



ANNEX A
Page 2
The last option, with a four-lane expressway on a new alignment as the
initial investment, proved to have the lowest discounted overall cost of road
use, maintenance and construction.
Expressway
4.        The new expressway will attract nearly all through traffic from
tne present Route I, as well as a considerable volume of suburban traffic
from state roads. It will initially have four lanes and at-grade inter-
sections, with the exception of its connection with the Port Dickson road
west of Seremban and the Junction with a major connecting road in Kuala
Lumpur. The overpass of the expressway over the Port Dickson road is
necessitated by a railroad branchline which parallels the road. The three-
lane bridge for the connecting road is required for traffic capacity reasons.
The rural parts of the expressways will provide good traffic flow conditions
until about 1985, when further investments would probably be justified to
prevent congestion.
5.        The urban extension of the expressway is part of a major road system
for the greater metropolitan area proposed by the Klang Valley Study. In
line with the overall development concept for the region (para 5.09), the
study assigned high priority to the road improvements in the access corridor
of the expressway.  The subsequent supplementary feasibility study by VLD
identified the parts of the system which would be required to achieve a
satisfactory dispersal of traffic from the expressway into the city.  The
feasibility study considered the possibility of upgrading an existing road
(Sungai Besi Road) which, with four lanes in its northern part and two lanes
in its southern part, carries at present between 34,000 vpd and 7,800 vpd
(near Sungai Besi). The study found that because of very high land acquisi-
tion cost, this alternative is inferior to building the expressway extension
further west in mostly tin mining grounds. This extension, together with
about 3.0 mi of connecting and access roads (the major one of which is a
four-lane link to Route II, currently being improved under Loan 851-MA), will
provide good traffic flow for at least five years after opening of the road,
and longer, depending on the effectiveness of measures to curb local traffic,
particularly by private motor cars, which the ongoing Transport Study for
Metropolitan Kuala Lumpur will propose. The critical point in the present
design is the tie-in of the expressway into Sumgai Besi road by a traffic-
signalled intersection. This intersection, and the integration of the
expressway into the Metropolitan Kuala Lumpur Area, will be reviewed in
the Transport Study for MAetropolitan Xuaia Lumpur.
6.        At Seremban, the four-lane highway terminates at the interchange
of the Port Dickson road; a two-lane bypass is carried beyond the town,
linking with the existing Rout. I and an existing industrial estate south
of the town. Seremban is connected by a two-lane spur road. These connections
are adequate for the forecast traffic.
7.        The main benefits of the new four-lane highway are reductions in
vehicle operating and time costs due to elimination of congestion, better
road characteristics, and increased travel speeds. Traffic between Kuala



ANNEX A
Page 3
Lu2apur and Seremban and beyona will also have distance savings of 3 to 6 mi.
Thro average reduction in vehicle operating costs will be 17% in 1976, reduction
i_l time costs will be about 45%.  Over an assumed 20-year service life, the
rates of return are 25% and 12% for the expressway and 26% and 12% respectively
fo-; the expressway extension.
Existing Road Improvements
8.        The improvements of the existing road are justified by benefits to
traffic which will not divert to the new road. The extension of the existing
fAour-lane road from Mi 5.8 south of Kuala Lumpur to the town of Cheras, the
construction of a two-lane bypass around the town, and the upgrading of the
existing road further to Kajang to acceptable geometric standard width and
pavement strength, will reduce vehicle operating costs by about 15% and
travel time by about 25%. These savings and reductions in road maintenance
cost will result in a rate of return of 29%; the rate of return would be 15%
if time savings are not considered. The provision of a climbing laae, improved
geometry and strengthening of the pavement in the steep grade section (7%)
between Mi 21 and Mi 22 will result in time savings, vehicle operating savings
(both 23%), and a reduction in maintenance cost. The investment will yield
rates of return of 25%, or 19% if time benefits are ignored. The strengthening
of the pavement, provision of standard road width with acceptable geometry
and sight distances, climbing lanes, and of hard shoulders for non-motorized
traffic in the hilly sections between Mi 34 and Mi 39.5 close to Seremban
will result in vehicle operating costs and time savings (22% and 35% respectively)
due to a smoother and faster flow of traffic, and reduced road maintenance
cost. The rates of return on these improvements will be 20% and 15%,
including and excluding time savings.
B.   Kuala Lumpur North to Mi 30 (Section II)
9.        This section is the main access to Kuala Lumpur from the north.
However, there is less urban development in this corridor than on the southern
access to Kuala Lumpur. The major towns are Batu Caves (2,500), a suburb of
Kuala Lumpur, and Rawang (7,000), 18 mi north of Kuala Lumpur. Land use
along the road is primarily rubber planting and tin mining. Traffic is
presently about 18,000 vpd close to Kuala Lumpur and tapering off to about
5,200 vpd at the northern end. The consultants predict traffic to continue
to grow at rates of about 7% to 10% p.a. until 1975 and a slower growth of
about 4% to 5% p.a. thereafter.
10.       Although the riding surface of the existing two-lane road is
generally good, its narrow carriageway, sharp curves and steep grades in many
locations cause congestion and slowdowns. The first 1.8 mi from the end
of a four-lane urban highway (Jalan Kuching) to the intersection with an
access road to Route II in Batu Caves is heavily congested. The consultants
compared the options of upgrading the existing road and building a new parallel
road between Kuala Lumpur and Rawang and further to Tanjong Malim. The con-
sultants did not come to a clear conclusion as to the best long-term improve-
ment, partly because the feasibility of the new road depends on the con-
struction of a major ring road in the north of Kuala Lumpur which, according to



ANNEX A
Page 4
the Klang Valley Regional Study, has low priority in the urban context. How-
ever, limited improvements to the existing road would be the initial invest-
ment requirement, regardless of which long-term alternative is chosen, and
would be adequate for traffic needs up to 1985.
11.       The widening to four lanes of 1.8 mi of existing road, with an
intersection south of Batu Caves and a 1 mi relocation of the access road
to Route II, and the realigning and upgrading of the existing two-lane road
between Batu Caves and Rawang to uniform standards will result in a smoother
traffic flow and increased travel speeds; vehicle operating costs will be
reduced by about 20%; travel times by about 40%; in addition, maintenance
cost savings will be achieved. Assuming constant benefits after 1985, the
rates of return on this investment would be 28% with time savings, and 17%
without. Similar upgrading between Rawang and Mi 30 will reduce vehicle
operating costs by about 13% and travel times by about 25%. The rates of
return will be 28% and 17%, including and excluding time savings.



ANNEX B
MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Urban Studies
Town Development Studies
1.        Two studies are included:  one will focus on the development of
Kuantan, and the other on growth centers in North-East Negri Sembilan.
Kuantan is one of the only two major port towns on the east coast and could
be an urban growth center for industrial and tourism development, as well
as providing a major market for its hinterland. There is currently
considerable migration from North-East Negri Sembilan Region because of
its economic backwardness. The Region, however, has several potential
growth centers which could stimulate economic activities and improve the
balance of national growth. The studies will: assess the development
potential of each area and propose specific development measures; and
identify high priority projects and undertake their feasibility studies
for possible financing by the Bank or other international agencies. The
precise locations, forms and sizes of the studies are to be further
investigated and are subject to agreement between the Government and the Bank.
Kuala Lumpur Urban Road Improvement Study
2.        The study will be based on the findings of the Transport Study
for Metropolitan Kuala Lumpur and will be designed to identify and undertake
the feasibility study of measures to improve traffic circulation in the
whole of Kuala Lumpur. It will specifically include suitable links from
Route II (which is being improved under the Bank's Urban Transport Project,
Loan 851-MA) to the Kuala Lumpur street system. The detailed engineering
of high priority items will also be included. The projects prepared under
the study are likely to be proposed by the Government for possible Bank
financing as a part of a comprehensive approach to the solution of the
city's transport problems.






TABLE 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOIm HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
Federal Government Investments in Transport
During the First and Second Five Year Plans
(in M$ million)
First Malaysia Plan            Second Malaysia Plan
1966-1970                       1971-1975
Mode                    West Malaysia  East Mlaysia   West Malaysia  East Malaysia
Roads                        161.3           148.0           505.1          188.5
Railways                      47.0             3.9            85.7            8.0
Ports and Shipping            82.9            10.1           122.9          106.9
Airports and Civil
Aviation                    40.3            20.8            49.8           59.0
PWD Plant and Equipment       24.4             6.2            31.0           31.5
Total                     355.9           189.0           794.5          393.9
-
Transport as % of public
development expenditures   10               30              14             28
Source: Prime Minister's Department, December 1972



T'AELE 2
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
Annual Change in Length of Road Network,
by Pavement Type and Responsible Authority
(mi)
Pavement Type
West Malaysia                     East Malaysia              Total
Year     Paved   Gravel   Earth   Total    Paved   Gravel   Earth   Total   All Roads
1967     8,368   1,355      409    10,132    407    1,381       448    2,236   12,368
1968     8,755   1,356      401    10,512    429    1,652      415    2,496   13,008
1969     9,003   1,294      421    10,718    456    1,798      426    2,680   13,398
1970     9,192   1,237      413    10,842    499    1,913      406    2,818   13,660
1971     9,524   1,031      4 7    10,982    553    2,007       409    2,969   13,951
Responsible Authority
1/                                             Total
Year    Federal   State   Local- Total    Federal  State  Local   Total    All Roads
1967     3,016    6,573    543    10,132       -      2,236   n.a.   2,236    12,368
1968     3,065    6,837    610    10,512              2,1496   n.a.   2,496    13,008
1969     3,086    7,010    622    10,718       -      2,680   n.a.   2,680    13,396
1970     3,105    7,104    633    10,842       _      2,818   n.a.   2,818    13,660
1971     3,141    7,189    652    10,982       -      2,969   n.a.   2,969    13,951
1/  Roads in Kuala Lumpur, Penang, Ipoh, and Malacca with Federal Government
responsibility.
n.a. = not applicable
Source:  Public Works Department, January 1973



TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
Motor Vehicle Registration-
West Malaysia
Year       Motorcycles      Cars    Taxis      Buses     Trucks     Total
1960         49,100       92,200     4,300     2,700     28,900    177,200
1966        2114,700     169,000     5,400     4,OOO     44,400   437,500
1967        251,500      182,400    5,600      4,200     46,500    490,200
1968        278,800      194,700     5,700    4,600      48,300    532,100
1969        312,700      213,200     6,000    5,300      51,400    588,600
1970        350,000      231,500     6,700     5,900     55,800    649,900
1971        389,100      253,500     6,600     6,400     60,500    716,200
Average Annual Growth Fates (% p.a.)
1960-1966:    28             11        4          7          7          16
1966-1971:    12              8        4         10          6          10
East Malaysia
Year      Motorcycles      Cars    Taxis & Buses      Trucks      Total
1960           4,500      6,000         800            (900)1/    (12,200)
1966          14,500    17,900        1,100           4,900        38,400
1967          17,100     22,400       1,100           6,200        46,800
1968          18,600     26,800       1,100           6,800        53,300
1969          19,800     32,200       1,100           8,500        61,600
1970          21,600     36,800       1,100           9,900        69,400
1971          24,000     42,600       1,200          11,900        79,700
Average Annual Growth Rates (% p.a.)
1960-1966:     22            20        6               n.a.          n.a.
1966-1971:    11             19        2               19            11
1/ Excludes Government vehicles.
2/ Sarawak only.
Source: Public Works Departaent, January 1973



TABLE 4
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGIWAY PF3JECT
MAILAISIA
RDad Eupenditures, 1967-71
(in M$ million)
1967    1968    1969    1970    1971
West Malayaia
Federal Roads
Administration                0.7      0.6     0.7     0.8     1.2
Haintenance                  11.5     12.4   18.1    18.4   17.3
Construction & I"provements  12.8     13.5   l4.9    28.5   32.1
Sub-total                 25.0    26.5   33.7   47.7   50.6
State Roads
Administration                6.o      6.4     6.3     6.7   10.1
Maintenance                  22.6     25.6   25.8   22.9   21.6
Construction & Improvementa  10.8      9.6     9.4     7.4     8.3
Sub-total                 39.4    41.6   41.5-  37.0   40.0
Sub-total West Malaysia   64.4     68.1   75.2    84.7      0.6
East Malaysia
Sabah
Administration                1.0      1.0     1.0     1.1     1.3
Maintenance                   6.4      6.9     7.0     6.9     8.4
Construction & Improvements   9.1    24.0   24.8   21.4   21.5
Sub-total                 16.5    31.9   32.8   29.4   31.2
Sarawak
Administration                0.3      0.4    0.5      0.5     0.6
Maintenance                   2.6      .:      3.8    J:4    1.6
Construction & Improvezenta  16.8      -         5              .0
Sub-total        _9.7    19.6   15.8    17.4    22.2
Sub-total East Malaysia   36.2    51.5    48.6             53.4
o100.6   11a.6   j" 131.5   1-
Source: Bank estimates on basis of data provided by FWD, December 1972



TABLE 5
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
Revenues from Motor Vehicle Taxation
(M$ million)
W-est Malaysia                        East Mag4vsia
Item                  1967   1965   1969   1970   1971        -       -     lYbY    -       -
t-                      ~~~~~~~31
Purchase Tax            24.6   16.9   19.8   40.9   39.3-/
Annual Registration  102.0  111.7  119.7  137.8  147.2
Other Road Fees        11.1   11.9   13.4   21.8   22.9
Sub-total           137.7  140.5  152.9  200.5  209.4   U. 6    5.5    6.3k   7.2W   85
Import Duty and
Excise Tax on:
GasolirA'e-  2/    99.9  109.4  112.0  119.3  134.0    9.6   10.4    9.6   10.9   12.8
Diesel fuel-       15.8   19.1   19.7   20.0   21.8    1.1    1.1    1.2    1.5    1.8
Motor vehicles
& parts           3.6   11.8    2.4   37.7   49.3    8.3    8.9   12.1   14.1   17.0
Tires               1.3    3.2    2.8    4.0    3.5    0.6    0.5    0.8    0.7    0.7
Sub-total           120.6  143.5  136.9  181.0  208.6   19.o6   20.9   23.7   27.2   32.3
Total               258.3  284.0  289.8  381.5  418.0   24.2   26.4   30.0   34.4   4o.8
1/  Road consumption is estimated at 100% of total consumption for both West
Malaysia and East Malaysia.
2/  Road consumption is estimated at 40% of total consumption for West Malaysia
and 25% for East Malaysia.
3/  Treasury estimate.
4/  Bank estimate.
Sources: Treasury; State Governments of Sabah and Sarawak; and Bank estimates,
December 1972



APPRAISAL OP
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
Highway Design Standards
RURAL  HIGHWAYS                                                URBLN  HIGHWAYS
Two-lane                   Four-lane Divided                      Two-lane                     Four-lane Divided
Terrain                           Terrain                 With Control   Without Control   With Control   Without Contvol
Unit   Flat    Rollin   Mountainous  Flat    Rolling  Mountainous    of Access              of Access         of Access         of Access
Design speed            mph       60       50.       40            70       60        50              50               40               50                40
Surfaced width           ft       24       24         24          Each carriageway 22                 24               24               22                24
( each carriageway )
1/
Shoulder width-         ft         8        8         4             8        8         5              10               10                8                10
Central reservation    ft          -       -          -             Minimum 10                        -                -               Minium 4
Maximum gradient        %          3        5          8            3         4        7        Flat & rolling terrain 4               Flat & rolling terrain 4
Hilly terrain            6             Hilly terrain            6
Stopping sight
distance              ft       475      350        275         600       475       350             425              300              425               300
Passing sight
distance               ft    2,100   1,800      1,500            -       -          -            1,200              950               -
Minimu  curve radius   ft    1,040        700       430         1,490    1,040       700              700             430              700               430
Structure Design:  British "HA" loading
/ Outside shoulder only for four-lane divided highway
Source: Public Works Department, January and April ,1973



TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF
A 51003D BIMISi! ?FMWT
MALAYSIA
Detailed Project Cost
Foreign
M4  (million)                US$ (Million)              Exchange
Element                                              ocal    FLocal                          Foreign   Total       Component
I. Construction and Improvement
(a) Kuala Luimpur-Seremban (Section I)
(.)  32.4 mi of new 4-lane expressway,
2.9 mi of new 2-lane expressway, and
1.9 mi of access roads                    13.7       16.8      30.5     5.9          7.2      13.1          55
(ii)  5 mi of 4-lane expressway extension,
2.8 mi of connecting roads (1.4 mi
of 4-lane and 1.4 mi of 2-lane roads)
and one interchange                        4.6        5.6      10.2     2.0          2.4       4.4          55
(iii)  17 mi of Improvement to the existing
road (2 lanea, except aa noted below)
- Mi 5.8 to Hi 15 (Mi 5.8 to Mi 8.4
to be widened to 4-lane divided)
and new bridge at Mi 16 (with
approaches)                              1.4        1.7       3.1     o.6          0.7       1.3         55
- Mi 21 to Mi 22                           0.1        0.1      0.2      0.04         0.05      0.1          55
- Mi 34 to MU 39.5                         0.9        1.2       2.1     o.4          0.5       0.9          55
(b)  Kuala Lumpur North to Mi 30 (Section II)
25 mi of Improvement to the existing
road (2 lanes, except as noted below)
- Mi 5 to Mi 18 (Mi 5 to Mi 6.8 to be
widened to 4-lane divided) and 1 mi
of connecting road                       3.7        4.5      8.2      1.6          1.9       3.5         55
- Mi 1B to Mi 30                           1.7        2.0       3.7     0.7          0.9       1.6          55
Sub-total I                         26.1       31.9     58.0    11.2          13.7     24.9
II.  Supervision of I by Consultants                       2.8        1.6       4.4     1.2          0.7       1.9          35
III. Feasibility study for expressway extension and
detailed engineering of 22 mi of Route I and
connecting roadsl/                                    0.5        0.2      0.7      0.2          0.1      0.3          30
IV.  Detailed engineering of aoout 200 mi of road          2.5        2.5       5.0     1.1          1.1       2.2         50
V.  Urban development studies                             2.6        2.1       4.7     1.1          0.9       2.0          45
Sub-total II-V                       8-4        6       14.8      3.6          2.8      6
VI. Contingencies:
(a)  Physical2/                                       3.4       3.8       7.2      1.5          1.6      3.1
Pb)  Pic              /
(i)              3                            2.4        2.9       5.3     1.1          1.2       2.3
(ii)  Consulting Services4/                    o.6        0.5       1.1     0.3          0.2       0.5
Sub-total VI                         6.4        7.2     13.6      2.9          3.0      5.9
Total Project Cost                                                L 17.47      19.5     37.253
1/ To be financed retroactively.
V/  10X on all items.
37/ 7.5% (5% p.a.) on local and 10.5% (7% p.a.) on foreign cost.
b/  7.5% (5% p.a.) on local and foreign cost.
Source: Government and Consultants Estimates, June 1973



TABLE 8
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIG1WAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
Schedule of Fitimated Diabursementa
Cumulative Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                            at end of Quarter
and Quarter                                     (US$ '000)
1973/74
December 31, 1973                                100
March 31, 1974                                 1,500
June 30, 1974                                  3,900
1974/75
September 30, 1974    -                        6,400
December 31, 1974                              8,700
March 31, 1975                                 10,600
June 30, 1975                                  12,200
1975/76
September 30, 1975                            13,600
December 31, 1975                             14,800
March 31, 1976                                15,900
June 30, 1976                                 16,600
1976/77
September 30, 1976                            17,200
December 31, 1976                             18,000
March 31, 1977                                18,500
June 30, 1977                                 19,000
1977/78
September 30, 1977                            19,500
Source:  Government/Bank Estimates, June 1973



TABLE 9
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
Average Daily Traffic Volumes on Project Roads
I. Kuala Lumpur-Seremban
Existing Road
Mi 21.0 to 22.0 &
Year   Vehicle Type              Mi 5.8 to 9.8   Mi 9.8 to 15.0  Mi 34.0 to 39.5
1970                               12 480            1o,500          7,000
Motorcycles                  1,0               1,120            710
Pass. cars, taxis, vans      8,220             6,580          4,170
Buses                          380               320            210
Trucks                       2,480             2,480          1,910
1975                               10,620             5,660          3,480
1985                               26,370            10,350          5,290
1995                               49,240            19,040          7,850
Expressway
mi O.  to 5.O11 Mi 5.0 to 11.0~- Mi 1.lQ to 37.41/
1975                               22,070           14,650          10,0
Motorcycles                  4,490            21040             60
Pass. cars, taxis, vans    11,470             7,550           6,440
Buses                         670               450             210
Trucks                      5,440             4,610           3,120
1985                               37,700            25,164         18,710
1995                               58,560            39,620         29,400
II.  Kuala Lumpur-Tanjong Malim
Year   Vehicle Type              Mi 5.0 to 6.8   Mi 6.8 to 18.0   Mi 18.0 to 30.0
1970                               161               7,300            6 000
Motorcycles                                   1,030
Pass. cars, taxis, vans      8,030            4,420            3,240
Buses                       1,010               290              240
Trucks                       2,010            1,560            1,740
1975                               26,100            11,700           8,470
1985                               43,070           19,280           13,740
1995                              (68,910)          (30,460)        (20,470)
1/  Additional traffic will be generated by the proposed new town, Bandar Langat
Source:  Vallentine, Laurie & Davies, December 1972 and April 1973



TABIE- 10
APPFAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
Typical Vehicle Operating  Costs (Excluding  Taxes)
(MO per miY
Small   Large
Motorcycle   Car   Taxi   Truck   Truck   Bus
Exiisting 2-lane highway
Congested                   3.6       10.7   16.5   26.6   39.3    29.9
Uncongested                 3.4        9.9   13.8   21.7   35.3    25.4
New 2-lane highway            2.9         9.2   10.4   17.4   28.0    20.2
New 4-lane highway            2.9         9.2   10.4   17.3   27.8    20.1
Travel Time Costs of Passengers
(M% per veh-hour)
Business      Home-to-Work      Social
Trips-         Trips           Trips
Motorcycle                               0.65 1]            6,
Passenger car             5.5O           1.9013
Bus                                      2.30 /
1/  One-third of earning rates of M$1.75 per hour of driver and M$0.60 per hour of
0.4 passenger.
2/  -4full earning rates of M$2.65 per hour of driver and M$2.35 per hour of 1.2
passengers.
3/  One-third of earning rates of M$2.65 per hour of driver and M$2.35 per hour
of 1.3 passengers.
4/  One-third of earning rates of M$2.65 per hour of driver and M$0.60 per hour
of 2.0 passengers.
5/  One-third of earning rate of M$0.25 per hour of 28 passengers; crew wages
are included in vehicle operating costs.
Source: Consultants estlmates, December 1972



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOIID I0ICHIAY FROJECT
NIUASS IA
E.tL-ted Costs and Bftefits
(m$ 1000)
fto5oct  eIsnt                                          1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978            1979    198O    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985           1986    1987       1988     1989     1990     1991     1992    1993       1994     1995    1996
1.  Ka la Luo-S.re.ba.
(.7 Iapr...ay
(17  MHi.s  5.0 to 40.3
Be.Mfit_                                                -       _         _        _      11052   11715   12418   13164   13822   14513   15239   16001   16801   17557   18347   19172   20035   21937   21879   2"63    23891   24967   26090   27283
VehIcle ossratlag .,St  -aiogs                                                             4796    5064    5389    5713    5998    6298    6613    6944    7291    7619    7962    8320    6695    9086    9495    9922   10368    10835   11323    11831
Ti. s$vI.S.                                                                                 6256    6631    7029    7451    7824    8215    8626    9057    9510    9938   10385   10852   11340   11851   12384   12941   13523   14132    14768   15432
Av-id.d 'igh-y  Clctec cost
Costa                                        1269      7981     14446   11342   1620         334      345      356      366      376      383      393      401      409      421       429    4289       445      410       45       476      489       501      514      527
EagiasO-l.g                                  1269
ILght-of-a_                                             1500      1484
Coastrmctlos                                           6040    12080   10570   1510
Sop.cvl.loo                               441~~~~~~~~"  882  772    110
Snpate~acos                                                                                  534      345      356      366      376      383      393      401      409      421       429    4289       445       410     465       476      489       501      514      527
Net Ibn fit*                                -1269      7981    1444   11342                10718   1170   12082   12798    13446   14130   1644   15600   16592   17136   17918   14863   192O   20527   21414   22387   23402   24466 2557                              26736
(105  811.. 0.0 to 5.0 (orbas satsnaioa.
efit s-                                                 _                           -       3002    3182    3373    3575    3754    3942    4139    4346    4563    4768    4983                5207    5442    5687    5943    6210    6489            6781    7086      7405
Va.lcls& operating ..st saviag.                                                             1313     1392    1476    1564    1642    1725    1811          1901    1996       2066    2180    2278        2381     2488     2600    2717    2839    2967    3100    3240
Sl_ savings                                                                                 1689    1790    1897    2011    2112    2217    2328    2445    2567    2682    2805    1989                  3061     3899     3343    3493       3650     3814    3986    4165
Avoided hLaloey Iniatedfiate cost
Cot,                                           -         799      3138    5306   4335         85       88       91       93       96       98      100       102      104      107      109    1094        113      116      119      121       125      128      131       134
8gta[.ri-S                                               314
R4.bt-of-,sy                                            485        971     971
CODJtC."ti                                                        2020    4040   4040
rSupervi.loa                                                       147      295     293
usitenscac                                               _          4               -         A t           8   9        93        96      98      100       102      104      107      109    1094        113   1.6        119       121      125      128      _Ul       134
use hasfit                                      -        -        3138    5306  .4335    flf         Jf l       r2 3f 82         65      344      4039 _    44    4439        466      48       411_       _2       5 _2 _             _                          9



APRd I bAIS OF
A SECOFD IG0W8Y PROJECI
Estimat.d Costa and Benafits
9oalsat lie  at                                         1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979           1990    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987            1989     1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
1 Kal .LuM!3u0 Str-nb-a (co-t'd.)
(b)  Iaptvn.-t  of Fiasting Rtod
(1) Kile. 5.8 to 1.S
Be n..ts f i t .                                                                           1457    1577    2044    1949    1969    2114    2269    7436    2616    2772    2934    3109    3378    3486                  3673    4260    4117    4361    4623    4899
V8efc.l  opet.. ag conet  -i0ans                                                            4S8      530      575      624     671       721     775      833      896      950    1007      1067    1131    1199        1271    1347    1428    1514    1605          1701
Ti-e  -5iD09i                                                                              869      943      1023    1110    1193       1283    1379    1482    1594    1690        1791     1898    2012    2133    2261         2397    2541    2693    2855    3026
Avoided highv y   i.tona-   ost                                                             100      104      446      215      105      110      115     121      126      132       136      143      235      154      141      516      148      154      163       172
Cant,                                          151      784      1611    988       493       59       60       63       64       66       69       76       74     409      406       216       90       93       94       97       99      102      106      109       112
Eninsnio                                       151
Right-of-acy                                             290      293
Cno truction                                             460    1228    921        460
Sspnevisioa                                               34       90      67       33
8.lntec e                                      _        _        _               __          59       60       63       64       66       69       76       74     409      406       216       90       93       94       97       99      102      106      109       112
Fet a ...fit,                                 -151         4        1                     1398    1517    1981    1885    1903    2045    2197    2362    2207    2366               71       018    3285    3392         56    4161         1 43    25    4514    4787
(ii) Miles 21.0 t, 22.0
Ie.fLts                                          _                                          132       72       76       90       83       87       90      94       97      lEO       105      109      174      115      121      125      130      135       141      145
VehlaLs npnsta  acnot  -nv1cns                                                               42      44        46       49       51       53       55      57       59       62       64        67       69       72       75       78       81       84       88        91
T.  ianv,gs                                                                                  19       20       21       22       23       24       25       26       27       28       29       30       31       32       34       35       36       38        39       40
Avoided highay  -inte--e cant                                                               71        8        9        9        9       10       10       11       11       11       12       12       74       11       12        12       13       13       14       14
COses                                            7                 57    149        63        5        S        5        5        5        5        5        6        6       92      -          5        5                           5       5         5        6        6
Lgi oe90                                         7
gi96a-nf--y                                                        57
CnO-t_notin                                                              139       59
Sapervinloe                                                                10        4
JlIsleeoss                                     _                    _ _-_ __                _     5        5             5            5        5   5         6                92        5      _. .       5                  5        5        5      _          6        6
llet   fits                                      7                -57   -149       -63      127       67       71       7!       7        82       85       89       91        9      100      104      169      110      116       120      5        130      133      19
(1I6) Nile. 54.0 tn 39.5
IA-fits                                                  _       _         -       -        609      722      668      700      729      756      786     818      850       883    1124       950      989    1027    1046       1195    1153    119d    1245    1294
VeFic 1. np.etinel nose  .v1i.S.                                                            401      421      442      464      483      502      522      543      565      589      611      635      661      687      715      743       773      804      936      869
Tie  -Lvas                                                                                  192      191      200      210      219      227      237      246      256      266      277      288      299      311      324       337      350      364      379      395
AOnld.d high-y       .ee..ee       t an                                                      26      110       26       26       27       27       27       29       29       29      236       27       29        29       29      115       30       30       30       30
Cvsts                                          110       506      893    669       334       25       26       27       27       27       28       27       2       156      376       27       28       29      -29        29       3        31       31       3        31
mgL_."eAo                                      110
Ught-nf--y                                               171
_twcttia                                                 312      832    624       311
C.peavlsiLo                                               23       61      45       23
1kivt.ecn__                                                                                  25       26       27       27       27       28       27       29      156      376       27       28       29        29       29       30       31       31       31       31
.t Imedfts                                                                                                             - -11   7-0 2 504          75964    --1 -                       9- j58  92 2     969      98    1039    1165                  1167    121       126
a7 



APPRAISAL OF
A SECODND HIGOIMAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
EstistedCots sOad Besetfit.
Project ElI.t                                     1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978            1979    1980    198        1982    1983    198        193      1986     1987    1988       1989     1990     1991    1992    199         1994     1995      1996
II. Yoala L1a-r North to Ml 30
(Impro-ee.t of ftistiog load)
(1)  miles 3 to 18
Benefits                                  -        -         -                 -      3423    3327    3517    3714    3881    4054    4235    4425    4780    4616    4616    4616    4616    4416    4616    4616    4616    4416    4616                          4616
Vehicle operating cost s-iog.                                                         1595    1686      1782    1884    1969       2057     2150    2247    2348       2348     2348      2348     2348     2348    2348       2348    2348      2348    2348       2348
T1e  saVigs                                                                          1454    1537    1625    1718    1795    1876           1960    2049    2141    2141    2141    2141           2141    2141    2141        2141     2141     2141    2141       2141
Avoided high,,y eeiotsoaoc  coot                                                       274      104      110      112      117      121      125      129      291       127      127      127      127      127       127      127      127       127      127       127
Costs                                             525    3003    3920    2178           89       92       97      101      105      109      112      117      323       115       1        1        1         1 115            115--     115      115      115       115
Engiseain                                        360
Rigbt-of-say                                      165      390
Coestsutloo                                              2433    3633    2050
lopervlsto                                                 178      267      148
Meistemue oca-                                                                          89       93       97      101      105      109      112      117      222       115      115      115      113       115      115      15       15        15       15       15
Sat Benefits                              --3003    -3j3&   .2f                      333       323      342      31       277      594      412      430      44       450      430       451               4501    430114504501                            50        501
(ii)  Nil.. 1S to 30
Beneefits #                                                                           1787    1523    1593    1671    1752    1836          1922    2016    2269        2395    2125      2125     2125      2123     2125     2125      2125     2125     2125      2125
vehicleaop-ating cost savings                                                          745      781      819      860      902      946      92    1041    1092    1092    1892    1092    1092    1092    1092    1092    1092                   1092    1092       1092
Tim5 s..ings                                                                           613      643      674      707      742      778      816      858      88       89n       898      898      898      898       898      898      898       898      898       898
,kvoided highs.y  eintane-c* cost                                                      429       99      100      106      too      112      116       119      359      405      135      135       135      135      135      135       135      135      135       135
Coats                                             264    1361    1718        983        90       94       97      100      104       106      11        13      80       29       19       129       19       19       19       .2         2        2         2        2
ls,ginering                                       186
light-of-...7                                      78      182
Cemimtrotios                                              1099    1648       916
Sspsrviso                                                   s0      120       67
Mslntmsoca                                                      90      ~~~ ~       ~~~~          ~~~~     ~~~~~~94  97  10  104  106  111  113    *j0  129  129   129      129       129    .129       _21      429       129L   4.29        129
not Benefits                                      ALj~    4M       VA7    -J3         19                14       1571    1648               1811 1U 903         M       W        Lj        1996     1996fj                       fl      1                 1996      1996
Sources Ooows¶01m sod Cisultmatl bsimates. April and Jos 1973






TABLE 12
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MAIAYSIA
Economic Returnsand Sensitivity Analysis
Passenger Time
Best      HighV       Low./      Saving Excluded
Estimate  Estimate   Estimate   from Benefits
I. Kuala Lumpur-Seremban
(a) Expressway
(i)  Mi 5.0 to Mi 40.3        24        31          17            12
(ii)  Mi 0.0 to Mi 5.0
(urban extension)      22         29         15             10
(b)  Existing Road
(i)  Mi 5.8 to Mi 15.0        29         37          22            15
(ii)  Mi 21.0 to Mi 22.0        25        35          16            19
(iii)  Mi 34.0 to MIi 39.5       20        26          14             15
II. Kuala Lumpur North to Mi 30
(i)   Mi 5.0 to Mi 18.0        28        37          20             17
(ii)   Mi 18.0 to Mi 30.0       28        37          19             17
1/ Assumes coats 15% lower and benefits 25% higher than in the best estimate,
2/ Assumes costs 15% higher and benefits 25% lower than in the best estimate.






APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAYSIA
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
DEPUTY DIRECTOR                                                                         DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL
GENERAL                                                                              (ENGINEERING SERVICES)
(DEVELOPMENT)
FORCESROADSSUPPLIES                                    WORKSTI                                             MECHANICAL                   ELECTRICAL
WORKS        DIVISION      DIVISION     DIVISVISI ON    ISION                                                DIVISION                    DIVISION
DIVISION        I   _
PROJECT                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~QUANTITY
COORDIATO        DEVELOPMNT       DESIGN SECTFION    IMvPLEMENTATION    PROJECT                      STORES      ACUTING    SURVEYING
SECTIONVLPMNTSETINMANAGER                                                                     DIVISION       DVSON
s         ~~~FEDERAL LAND                                                                                                  DIVISION
DESIGN AND
MAIN CIVIL WORKS UNIT               RESEARCH
DIV ISION
LAND ACQUISITION UNIT
SERVICE RELOCATION UNIT
AUDIT AND ACCOUNTING UNIT
World Bank-7597 (R)






I BRD -10050R
ir wr/ ml sr    sv   -   +  wr-            - 1                N   .           &      MALAY.,IA,L                       UY17
APPRAISAL OF
'A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
- H  A    t  , A  N                               D                -          FEDERAL ROADSAND ROUTE NUMBERS
OTHER PRINCIPAL ROADS
Ks orirC    Y    tLS   .   ...   .   R   .   -   .   ..  6<  .  .....                        . . -----  PR INC)PAL ROAD UNDER CONSTRUCTION
0   tr//)J^<  Tump ....... DETAII.EO ENGINEERING Uprfb.n stT.nn~t l(rsEtLDEGwaER
Jitra ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ProI.t - Loan 851-MA
-    r f.  CONSThIUCTfON AND IMPROVEMENT Sowcd Hig
Pr0ojct
Aor aelr                                   TV~o  /                                      kLANG VALLEY REGION
-6-                                                                                                       _ - \ ) * , \ t; . .* STATE BOUNDARIES          6'
K LC    H  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-INTERNATIONAL, BOUNDARIES
~~    9        2       ~~~ ~ 49  60
ria ~ ~         ~         ~        ~        h          i
B                                  MeroRE                                     MILTeErSr             o 
Sungei                                                 eli                                     V    '4   69   so   1 0  g
K a p vt   \    /  ,0  't   A        8  ,KuclaKrAi     )     <            K~~~~~~~~~~~LtrSETERs
anae shw an lId ma do n
O   P5Wtor aCemlee Ey theg{f          )g\'t   
ripru> <3 iECTlON)tt X %% ~~~~~~~~Kuala l(runi
* g         B  kitf  Mer4r
_   EALIMANyA1O        S 15 ,l", 0                                                  I,rz
.0\  S E Z A NG StE I/ K F    A       T
<                                    F    b t >          K            \   t            A   /                    .    '                        3*~~~A    5~
F . . 9< \KuoaK                                                                          TR   N G .GEn
' " " " ,*OU~~~~~~~~~iptiC hw > int g  tO , SEM/I  1 
SswStmetirt)t vatw;SECTIONay N
4\> Stautlt C/>iner Sea vx < < gSotaTmggl \~~~~r ut 
<t~~~~~u                                                          /I A -t          'AD eA                        -it
85  -,*,NGRE,t~~~~~~~~~~,  Mal  SELfMAi t;>                                                         ,g m                   ht     n alo ;;>jiG P
\  - ' f - OlK O   N  E \ S  [  A M01  .  t  ,   -  E I~~~~~tong    1 7..tr   






IBRD-10494R
To Ipon  Rawang, To-Iong, Mob1-                                      .c. .        s        Kc-n                                                         JULY 1973,
-3°15'                                                                                                                                                                               TI 5')   5-
J £s                                            z<,rxJ MALAYSIA
Batu Cves                                                                     APPRAISAL OF
Cos                               .A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
.  !   1szk   <. /KUALA  LUMPUR
Jinjong             |      \                      < 
b               ~~~K epong ..                                       )                  f    -                  v
O      1      2       3       4      5
KILOMETCERS
O                       .            . ,X  .''1'- .2  3
I0                                                                                                                                            I      I               I
MILES
3' 10'                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,t0'-
/             KlK ALA LUMPUR\                                                                                                                , 
|                                g                          >                        g          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ampo g
PETALI IAY
, ;:........... : ... S;Big: Ses >>) ,THAILAND3: --
Existing Main Roads ----Sz.  -2=g........ f.   .a, fou6-
Proposed  Main Roads                      Rc      ohiwd .w-c'.
-Q--   Federal Roads and Route Numbers                RI        P z  ' .Riuuu.
--U--  Interchanges                                          Mu-!ICpd 30,L,r-                                                                              .        WEST
Urban Transport(First Highway)                                                                                                                        MALAYSIA ,  :
Project -  Loaon 851-MA                                       S-                                                                                          l.
The 7bhundarws rh own b m   ti FF dp t  .  -tt
ir,,ply edobwmenrpreoceptnceby th                                  FZF<.u
Yorlid Book tnd ir afti/jOt;I.                                                                                                                             - 
1 40'                                                                  li 45'                        INDONE5A
To K.]og 



