Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19444
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3493-BAR)
September 30, 1999
Finance, Public Sector and Infrastructure Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This Document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Barbados Dollar
US$1 = Bd$ 2.00
Bd$1 = US$ 0.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BTB          Barbados Transport Board
CDB          Caribbean Development Bank
CPO          Chief Planning Officer
CTO          Chief Technical Officer
DCTO         Deputy Chief Technical Officer
GOB          Government of Barbados
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IFAS         Integrated Financial Accounting System
ITA          Interim Transport Authority
ITLA         Independent Transport Licensing Authority
MCW          Ministry of Works, Conmmunication and Transportation
MFEA         Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MPT          Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing
MMU          Maintenance Management Unit
MTR          Mid-Term Review
PSIP         Public Sector Investment Program
PTA          Public Transport Authority
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SRP          Structural Reform Program
TA           Transport Authority
TB           Transport Board
Vice President                         :David de Ferranti
Director                               .Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Division Chief/Manager                 :Jeffrey Gutman
Staff Member                           :Bernard Becq



FOR OFFICIL  USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .....................................................                                          i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives ...................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ..................................................                                2
C. Implementation Record and Major factors Affecting the Project ............... 6
D. Project Sustainability ..................................................                                   8
E. Bank Performance ..................................................                                         9
F. Borrower Performance ..................................................                                     10
G. Assessment of Outcome ..................................................                                    11
F. Future Operations ..................................................                                        11
1. Lessons Learned ..................................................1  I
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment ..................................................                              13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans ..................................................                                 1 4
Table 3: Project Timetable ..................................................                                  14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .......... 1 4
Table 5 Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................. 15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ........................................ 17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..................................................   18
Table 8A: Project Costs ..................................................                                     20
Table 8B: Project Financing ..................................................                                 21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................. 22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .................................................. 23
Table 11: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements ....................... 30
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Input ................................................. 30
Table 13: Bank Resources Missions ..................................................  3 1
ANNEX 1: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO ICR ........................... 33
ANNEX 2: COMPLETION MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE ..........                                                   .............. 51
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3493-BAR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Road Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Project in Barbados, for which Loan 3493-BAR in the amount of
US$ 21.2 million equivalent was approved on July 17, 1992 and made effective on
October 15, 1992.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1998, compared with the original closing date of
March 31, 1997. Final disbursement of US$ 932,875.60 took place on March 25, 1999,
at which time they totaled approximately US$ 16.4 million, i.e. about 88 % of the total
revised Bank loan of US$ 18.5 million, and a balance of US$ 2,140,484.30 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Aaron Adiv (Consultant), revised by Bernard Becq, Task
Manager, and reviewed by Jose Luis Irogoyen, Principal Transport Specialist, and Max
Pulgar-Vidal, Sector Leader.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, on December 14-18, 1998. It is based on material in the project file and
discussions with the Borrower. The Borrower has submitted comments on the draft
ICR, and has submitted its own evaluation of the project's preparation and execution.






EVALUATION SUMMARY
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN 3493-BAR
Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) install and implement sound
maintenance policies and procedures on the road network; (b) preserve the capital base of
the road infrastructure within the constraints of capital and current expenditure; reduce
investment costs through the transfer of all capital works to the private sector and explore
the feasibility of private sector participation in routine maintenance; (c) improve road
safety; and (d) help the Government in its efforts to privatize passenger transport services.
2.    The project included three major components: (i) Improving Physical Elements
of the Road System through road and bridge rehabilitation, road safety, and purchase of
new equipment and spare parts for the Mechanical Workshop of the Ministry of Public
Works, Transport and Housing (MPT); (ii) Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reform
of the Road Maintenance Sector through studies and technical assistance for improving
and rationalizing road maintenance operations and management, computerization of the
MPT financial system, the establishment of a road trust fund, and local and foreign
training; and (iii) Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reform of the Public Transport
Sector through the privatization of the Barbados Transport Board (BTB) bus company
operations and workshop, the establishment of an Independent Transport Licensing
Authority (ITLA), and the purchase of fareboxes to reduce BTB labor force.
Achievement of Objectives
3.    The Project development objectives were partially achieved. The objectives
related to physical infrastructure have been somewhat met, as some degree of
preservation of the road infrastructure has taken place, and road safety has improved due
to dedicated road works. However, the achievement of sustainable strengthening of
maintenance policies and procedures has been limited, and MPT operations still need to
be improved. The operations and management of the public transport system have
remained noticeably unchanged, and BTB is operating with increasing deficits and
subsidies after some degree of initial success in reducing its operating cost.
4.    Efforts to computerize MPT's financial system, and initial progress in
maintenance management and planning, staff reduction, and contracted out road works
were fairly successful. However, most of the recommendations of the technical
assistance programs and institutional studies were not successfully implemented. This is
reflected in the absence of action plans required as a result of these studies and lack of



- ii -
other evidence of any proactive follow up on their implementation. As a result, the
changes in the operational, organizational and procedural aspects of MPT which were
anticipated at the outset of project implementation, have not materialized. Training has
been sporadic, and MPT's ability to improve its operational efficiency has fallen short of
earlier expectations. Despite the creation of the Maintenance Management Section,
procedures are unclear, and road maintenance remains costly and is mostly carried out by
force-account. The pilot road maintenance by contract (RMBC) component has not
succeeded in developing local contractors to carry out maintenance, and also suffers from
a shortage of funds for both routine and periodic maintenance of the existing road
network. The operations and management of the Mechanical Workshop have benefited
from new equipment and spare parts, but its economic and financial viability is unsure,
and true commercial accounting has not occurred despite the introduction of a new
accounting system.
5.    Road works have been completed with by and large adequate engineering
standards, and in that respect sustainability is expected to occur. However, less road
works were executed than envisioned at the inception of the project, and improved
procurement during the second half of the project and the 21 months extension of the
Project closing date did not make up for time lost early on. Issues of relocation of
utilities and resettlement have hampered the implementation of most works. Some works
(Highway 6 and Overlay "B") were still not completed by the closing date of the loan.
6.    BTB efficiency was improved early on during implementation as operating costs
decreased as a result of labor costs reduced by replacing the bus conductors with
automated fareboxes, and by "privatizing" the maintenance shop. Early progress was,
however, soon jeopardized by the lack of implementation of institutional and regulatory
reforms. Counter productive measures seem to have succeeded in halting public transport
reforms. BTB has neither been privatized nor commercialized, and runs increasing
financial deficits year after year. The centrally determined flat island-base fare remains in
effect. The Public Transport Authority (PTA) which was supposed to reform the public
transport operation and privatization, has been operating as an interim body in lieu of
ITLA for almost three years without any meaningful impact on the public transport
sector, and the action plan to reduce the public sector role in the transport of passengers
has largely remained unimplemented.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.    Lack of Counterpart Funds. Up to the mid-term review (MTR) in November
1995, the lack of counterpart funds hampered MPT's ability to proceed in a timely
manner with the project. Although the situation improved after the MTR due to an
increased allocation agreed as part of the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP), their
level has remained below the agreed amounts. Implementation of the Project's physical
components improved, but initial delays could not be made up.



- Hi -
8.    Lack of Planning and Inefficient Procurement. The procurement process has in
general been slow, and at times difficult to monitor, which has resulted in a late start-up
of works and numerous and significant delays. Problems with budgeting, resource
allocation, planning and preparing for individual projects have been experienced
throughout project implementation, even after the extension of the project closing date,
and despite the creation of a Planning Unit and establishment of a Maintenance
Management System which entailed only temporary improvements. MPT appears to
have underestimated the necessary time and efforts involved in designing, planning and
executing civil works. Bank procurement rules were not always fully understood and
complied with, which has resulted in a few ineligible expenditures. MPT's lack of
success in attracting and retaining experienced staff significantly contributed to this
situation.
9.    Lack of Implementation and Monitoring Capacity, and Commitment. The
Government's implementation capacity and commitment to the objectives of the project
was lower than expected, and MPT's inability to internalize and implement policy
reforms may have demoralized staff. Project management has not been very proactive,
which has worsened the negative effects of the above-captioned funding shortfall, lack of
planning and inefficient procurement. One perennial issue explaining the above seems to
have been the difficulty to recruit and retain adequate staff in MPT. Supervising
engineers were often recruited late, changes in the scope of works were not discussed
with the Bank, and supervision reports were often simplistic and not regularly submitted.
10.  Insufficient Bank Supervision Project supervision has suffered from too large a
turn-over in Task Managers, which has not contributed to consistency, and certainly
reflected on implementation. Following upon agreements reached at the MTR has not
been effective, and supervision has thereafter been somewhat complacent and not very
proactive, and may not have always gathered the appropriate skills. Project performance
has not always been appropriately assessed, particularly with regard to the lack of
progress on the policy reform front, and to the lack of compliance with basic obligations
regarding procurement, counterpart funding, and a number of legal covenants.
Project Sustainability
11.   Although most of the physical objectives of the project were achieved, the limited
implementation of the institutional development and policy aspects of the project left the
MPT not much better off at the end of the project than it was at the beginning. This
situation unfortunately does not augur well for the overall sustainability of the project.
The Project had only a limited impact on the establishment of a comprehensive and sound
road management and planning system, efficient and cost effective maintenance
procedures, and a funding mechanism based on an independent source of revenues for
road maintenance, which are the sine qua non conditions for a well managed road sector.
Public transport remains heavily subsidized and operating at a loss, while transport
licensing and regulations remain under Government authority. As most objectives were



- iv -
not achieved and reforms not implemented during the almost six-and-half years of project
implementation, the likelihood they would be after Project completion is low.
Bank Performance
12.   Bank performance is considered deficient. It is rated satisfactory during
identification, preparation and appraisal, although a number of assumptions regarding
implementation capacity and maintenance budgeting and levels were probably optimistic.
Some components relied upon the implementation of too many operational improvements
and institutional reforms to be successful (e.g. support to MPT's force account through
the procurement of equipment and strengthening of road maintenance by contract). The
Bank may also have, on the basis of early assurances during project preparation and early
implementation, overestimated the commitment of GOB/MPT to implement such a
project, and/or has not been proactive enough in reacting to its fading during
implementation. Supervision is considered unsatisfactory during the period following the
MTR as it can be characterized by a lack of proactive monitoring, and sometimes
complacency. In particular there has been no monitoring of disbursements for the overlay
program which were contingent on satisfactory progress with the BTB action plan, and of
the conditions set for the extension of the Project closing date, which resulted in missed
opportunities for the Bank to continue the policy dialogue. The Bank could also have
entered into serious discussions with GOB regarding counterpart funding before the
MTR, three years into implementation. Ratings of the project have been inadequate,
especially with regard to the lack of compliance with covenants and failed
implementation of policy reforms. The November 1997 amendment to the loan
agreement, basically endorsed the non-compliance of GOB with public transport sector
restructuring and BTB urban operations without a proper rationale.
Borrower Performance
13.   The Borrower's overall performance is also deemed deficient. Project
implementation has been mired with delays, slow and unpredictable procurement, partial
or total non-compliance with loan covenants, lack of institutional strengthening, and lack
of policy reforms in the road maintenance and public transport sectors. In addition, the
level of counterpart funds has been consistently lower than agreed, and early progress has
not been sustained with commitment to implement difficult policy decisions. MPT has,
however, managed to: (i) carry out a number of road contracts with some degree of
efficiency; (ii) upgrade its road maintenance fleet through procurement of new
equipment; (iii) show progress in accounting through computerization; (iv) avail
themselves of training opportunities; and (v) hire consultants to perform technical
assistance and studies.
Assessment of Outcome
14.   The outcome is overall unsatisfactory because of the lack of sustainable
achievements, and success in implementation generally limited to some physical aspects.



Policy reforms supposed to set the foundations and sustain modernization and improved
efficiency of the road and public transport sectors have not been implemented. MPT's
institutional strengthening has been in the end limited to the successful implementation of
the computerization study and procurement of computers, and the establishment of a
small planning unit. Substantial and recurrent delays have occurred throughout
implementation and hampered the execution of most components. Some road works have
been completed but with delays, and in a significantly reduced number. Equipment was
procured too late, and its management was only very slightly improved.
Future Operation
15.   The Borrower has not submitted any plan for the operational phase of the Project.
The operation of the project is expected to be basically limited to the road sector through
the completion of the ongoing road works, and possibly the maintenance of the
rehabilitated roads. Transport sector issues are not expected to be really addressed now
as they have not been during the Project implementation period.
Lessons Learned
16.   The following actions should be taken in similar projects:
(i) make a realistic assessment of the Borrower's implementation capacity including
institutional risks; ensure that strengthening of implementing agencies is carefully phased
and monitored, and implemented within a comprehensive human resources development
framework during the early stages of the project; and follow up on agreed actions in a
timely manner, and carefully monitor and react to changes in implementation conditions;
(ii) continuously monitor compliance and commitment of the Borrower to provide
counterpart funds at the highest level, and link counterpart funding levels with reforms of
the fiscal/funding mechanisms, in particular those regarding maintenance;
(iii) make the Borrower a partner to policy reforms long before the start of the project,
and ensure a complete understanding of the critical interdependence of all aspects of the
reforms program; carefully phase the implementation of reforms and focus early
implementation on the adoption of key reforms; and most importantly keep supervision
focused on institutional issues and monitor achievements in a timely manner;
(iv) focus on implementing civil works in a well-planned manner and with clear
supervision and monitoring procedures, and ensure that programming systems put in
place under projects are maintained and kept operational over the years;
(v) include comprehensive local contractors development strategies and action plans
addressing the specific economic issues, and paralleling action plans to strengthen
operational capacity in road agencies and/or streamlining/decreasing inefficient force
account activities; and



- vi-
(vi) improve Bank supervision, in particular through appropriate staffing and full support
to difficult and/or controversial activities and reforms, proactive follow-up on
agreements, and avoiding too high a turn-over of Task Managers.
17.   The Borrower should engage in taking the long-recommended actions in the
public transport sector, in particular: (a) restructuring BTB as a commercialized company
designed for subsequent privatization in appropriately sized units to address its operating
losses; and (b) finalizing the legislation and institutional and transition arrangements for
the establishment of a permanent Independent Transport Licensing Authority (ITLA), the
equalization of all fiscal and operational regulations, and the rationalization of subsidies
and tariffs. The Borrower should consider alternative ways forward with regard to
sustainable and sufficient funding mechanisms for both routine and periodic maintenance,
and restructuring of road maintenance operations through contracting out works and
gradually reducing force account units. MPT should also implement the many
recommendations made regarding maintenance management and reinstate a full-fledged
planning and programming system.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN 3493-BAR
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) install and implement sound
maintenance policies and procedures on the road network; (b) preserve the capital base of
the road infrastructure within the constraints on capital and current expenditure; reduce
investment costs through the transfer of all capital works to the private sector and explore
the feasibility of private sector participation in routine maintenance; (d) improve road
safety; and (e) help the government in its efforts to privatize passenger transport services.
2.    This project was a follow-up to the (first) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (Loan 2432-BAR), which included construction of 31 km of roads, intersection
improvements, and technical assistance to build capacity in road maintenance and
equipment management. The goal of this second Project was to expand on the first
project to reduce inefficiencies and create more efficient road maintenance and public
transport systems, increase and better manage resources allocated to preserve the road
network, and foster the participation of the private sector and increase competition in both
the road and public transport sectors.
3.    The project included three major components:
(I) Improving Physical Elements of the Road Network: (i) Civil Works - including (a) road
rehabilitation, (b) road safety improvements, (c) rehabilitation/reconstruction of bridges
and culverts, (d) overlay program; and (ii) Equipment - including purchase of new
equipment and spare parts for the MPT mechanical workshop serving the force-account
operations.
(II) Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reforms in the Road Sector through (i) studies
and technical assistance: (a) Routine Maintenance by Contract-RMBC study; (b) Road
Network Rationalization study, and establishment of a road trust fund, (c) Road
Maintenance and Equipment Management study and technical assistance, and (d)
computerization of MPT financial operations technical assistance, and (ii) local and
foreign training.
(III) Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reforms of the Public Transport Sector: (a)
privatization of the Barbados Transport Board (BTB) bus company operations and
workshop, and increasing competition by the private sector, (b) establishment of an



- 2 -
Independent Transport Licensing Authority (ITLA) or Public Transport Authority (PTA),
and (c) purchase of fareboxes to reduce BTB labor force.
B. Achievement of Objectives
4.    The project development objectives have not been fully met due to the general
lack of success in adopting, internalizing, executing and sustaining institutional
strengthening and policy reforms, despite some progress in some critical areas during the
development period. The formal requirements of the loan agreement to hire consultants
and conduct studies may have been fulfilled as most of those listed in the SAR have been
actually executed usually early on during project implementation. The MPT and the BTB
failed, however, to adopt and apply consistently most of their recommendations which
generally called for significant changes in operating and managing the road and transport
sectors. The MPT and the BTB were unable to capitalize on early progress, and were at
the end of the Project still largely operating as they did before, while a number of
inherent deficiencies still remained. Institutional strengthening has not taken place at the
level originally expected. Given the low adherence to institutional strengthening and
policy reforms during the project's execution period, the prospect for sustainability in the
future is low.
5.    Significant changes in the management and funding of road maintenance
operations have not materialized in a sustainable manner, although some reforms took
place during preparation and studies concerning road maintenance, equipment
management and computerization of the Ministry of Public Works Transport and
Housing (MPT) have been completed early during implementation and utilized to a
certain degree. Annual funds to maintain and preserve the existing road network have
been chronically insufficient, and the flow of reliable resources to routine and periodic
maintenance has not increased. MPT did not introduce modern road management
methods and operational procedures to increase the efficiency of maintenance as
expected. Despite some improvements in maintenance planning and computerized
financial system, maintenance continues to be carried out mostly by force-account in an
ad-hoc manner, leaving much leeway for improved efficiency. Only a limited amount of
institutional strengthening occurred within MPT, and unfortunately the structure of the
training program did not facilitate the development of human resources as anticipated at
the start of the project.
6.    The physical objectives are considered marginally met. The Project succeeded in
executing good quality road contracts including road reconstruction, safety program,
bridges and culverts and some elements of an overlay program. In addition, the project
succeeded in procuring new equipment and spare parts for the Mechanical Workshop,
thus maintaining the operation of equipment fleet, although it failed to ensure its
economic and financial viability.
7.    The lack of achievement and change is most profound with regard to the third
development objective concerning the public transport sector. Studies' recommendations
have been gradually neglected, and initial progress has been undermined by the lack of



- 3 -
proactive follow up on key reforms regarding the privatization of the Barbados Transport
Board (BTB) and the establishment of an independent transport regulatory and licensing
authority (ITLA). The following sections provide an evaluation of the individual
components.
(I) Improving Physical Elements of the Road Network
8.    The Civil Works portion of the loan has been generally satisfactory in that most
contracts have been executed to acceptable quality engineering standards.
(a)   The Rehabilitation Program was intended to rehabilitate two sections of Highway
6: (i) Searles to Six Roads (6.1 km), and (ii) Collymore Rock to Villa Road (0.7 km).
Only the section Searles to Six roads was constructed as planned, with increased costs
due to additional work and input cost increases, but not completed by the loan closing
date due to remaining problems with resettlement of residents of two houses (out of
twenty-three) and removal of utilities (water, gas, electricity and telecommunication)
from the right-or-way.
(b)   The Safety Program is considered marginally satisfactory and sustainable,
although having only been partially implemented with some significant change in design
and scope of works. However, some sidewalk construction has eventually been
incorporated into the redesigned Overlay "B" Program (described below).
(c)   The Overlay Program has been executed with a substantially different scope of
works, which jeopardized the objective to preserve the essential elements of the Barbados
road network. Only Package "A" was executed as intended and on time. Packages "C"
and "D" were deleted. Package "B" was almost entirely executed as a "reconstruction"
project: (i) without analysis of the possible impacts of road widening, sidewalk
construction and drainage on the environment; and (ii) with costs increases from US$ 3.4
million to US$ 5.5 million without further economic analysis (this being made worse by
the cost overruns which brought total expenditures to about US$ 6.6 million at the time of
project closing while works were still not completed).
(d)   The Bridges and Culverts program is satisfactory, with four bridges and four
culverts rehabilitated/constructed.
9.    The Equipment program is marginally satisfactory as it has had a limited impact.
It fulfilled the original plan to renew the road maintenance equipment fleet of the
Mechanical Workshop, which manages and allocates plant to all twelve MPT operational
units carrying out force account operations. 108 pieces of equipment (51 major and 57
minor) plus workshop equipment, were procured at a total cost of about US$ 3.6 million
as compared to the SAR estimate of 112 items for US$ 2.6 million. In general, with the
newly procured equipment, the Mechanical Workshop is at about the same state as it was
at the beginning of the project, with an average age of over 10 years. Much of the
procurement occurred, however, only in 1997/1998, towards the end of the project and
too late to strengthen MPT capacity to carry out the agreed maintenance programs, and to



-4 -
support the intended reforms in maintenance operational procedures, planning, and
budget reallocation. In addition, MPT has not seriously considered options for improving
the workshop operations, and establishing proper accounting procedures. Equipment
procurement under this component intended to increase (although it only maintained)
force account capacity to maintain the existing network, which in effect has not
constituted an incentive for MPT to effectively test maintenance by contracts on a pilot
basis (see below para 10), especially so that other recommendations regarding
maintenance operational reorganization and standards for different types of roads have
not been contemplated as planned and/or implemented (see below para 11).
(II) Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reforms in the Road Sector
Studies and technical assistance
10.   The Routine Maintenance by Contract-RMBC pilot study has been largely
unsuccessful. Neither did it improve the efficiency of routine road maintenance in a
sustainable manner, nor did it meet the "private sector participation in maintenance"
development objective. The pilot was designed taking into account the limited
competition due to the market size and island conditions, and the impossibility to develop
labor-based contractors in a relatively high wages economy, and packaging was aimed at
the largest contractors for efficiency reasons. As a result, only two island contractors bid,
and one executed all works under this "pilot". Neither were small contractors able to bid,
nor have they been assisted in developing capacity as MPT was deemed not to have the
capacity to monitor a contractors development program. The Road Maintenance and
Equipment Management study (see para 12 below) highlighted a number of constraints to
the establishment of such small contractors, but did not provide a detailed analysis of
conditions for attracting and strengthening them on the basis of a clear assessment of
existing capacity and comparative advantages and costs. It appears that more careful
consideration could have been given to which types of maintenance works could be
awarded to small contractors with regard to their capacity. A clear strategy, with various
maintenance options and appropriate modes to carry out specific maintenance tasks
(works carried out by force account or contracted out) would have constituted an
interesting output. Also, a special program could have been developed to facilitate the
advancement of small contractors from their infancy to the point where they can bid for
routine maintenance contracts.
11.   The Road Network Rationalization study developed a system of rationalizing road
maintenance, including a computerized road condition and traffic database. The
evaluation of road conditions has, however, been limited to sight inspection, due to lack
of system maintenance, shortage of manpower, and failed measurement instruments. The
study provided a one-time effort to program priorities for maintenance, but is not likely to
result in sustainable improvement as MPT did not organize its services to operate the
system on a regular basis. This study could have had a more significant impact, had it
been aimed at also identifying alternative reliable and sufficient sources of funding for
road maintenance to go beyond budget reallocations which did not materialize.



12.   The Road Maintenance and Equipment Management study had only a limited
impact, as only part of the recommendations and computerized packages have been
integrated into the standard operating procedures of MPT. The technical assistance
developed systems and procedures for road maintenance operations, and management
systems for the maintenance of equipment and mechanical workshop, including
performance standards, quantity standards and job description, as well as three data
manager software packages: Cost Accounting System (CAS), Maintenance Management
System (MMS), and Maintenance Budget System (MPB). MPT staff were trained during
the technical assistance period on various aspects of the new computerized management
system. It seems that conditions were present in terms of background analysis and
recommendations for MPT to improve its operations and organization, but that political
and/or high administration willingness to drive the change process was not there, which
finally prevented significant sustainable measures to be put in place.
13.   The Computerization of MPTfinancial systems is considered the most successful
and sustainable aspect in that MPT is using a computerized accounting and administrative
system on a regular basis.
Training
14.   MPT staff undertook various local and foreign short-term and long-term training
programs financed by the loan. The program seems to have been beneficial to the
individuals involved in perusing them. However, it is hard to find a clear cut strategy for
the various parts of the program, and the link with the overall development objectives and
the institutional studies and reforms which were to be achieved. Overall, training has
been ad-hoc, and appears to have been based on a shopping list without clear human
resources development objectives linked to a vision of the future of MPT.
(III) Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reforms of the Public Transport Sector
15.   Privatization of BTB and increased competition by the private sector did not
occur. There has been early progress in reforming the BTB bus company operations and
management as a result of the sound recommendations of the EDF-funded Transport
Board study and Project-funded consultants. A new regulatory regime was prepared,
operating and labor costs decreased as a result of replacing the bus conductors with
automated fareboxes purchased by the loan, and efficiency improved through the so
called "privatizing" of the maintenance shop (transferring ownership to the maintenance
staff without a bid). However, these actions have proved insufficient to make the BTB
more efficient and competitive, and early success has soon been jeopardized by the lack
of implementation of institutional and regulatory reforms. In particular, the BTB has
neither been privatized nor commercialized, and continues to a large extent to face the
same operational and financial problems. The rationalization of tariffs through staged
tariffs did not take place, and the centrally determined flat island-base fare remains in
effect. As a result, the BTB runs increasing financial deficits year after year, and has
been losing grounds to the private operators in the Bridgetown urban area, while required
to operate at a loss in the low demand "rural" areas. In spite of the continued deficits



- 6 -
however, the Government has recently given BTB a Government Guarantee for purchase
of 100 new buses, with an estimated cost of US$ 12-15 million.
16.   The Public Transport Authority (PTA) was not established despite
recommendations of the 1994 Barbados Public Transport Study (BPTS), and the 1996
National Transport Plan (NTP) which recommended it. Technical assistance was finally
recruited, although not financed under the Bank loan due to improper procurement and
the lack of agreement with regard to TORs and objectives, but did not have any
significant impact. An Interim Transport Authority has been operating as an interim
body for the last three years, but neither carried out any significant action -- largely
because it lacked staff, budget and authority, nor had any meaningful impact on the
public transport sector. There are stated plans to establish a permanent Independent
Transport Licensing Authority (ITLA) in 1999 (beyond the loan's closing date).
However, given the past occurrences, the establishment and sustainability of such a body
is doubtful.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   The project, launched in mid October 1992, ran behind schedule throughout
implementation. By the end of FY 1995, at mid-termn, less than 25% of the loan had been
disbursed, against a projected 75% figure. A twenty-one month's extension of the
Project's closing date from March 31, 1997, to December 31, 1998, was granted at the
November 1995 mid-term review (MTR) to compensate for time lost during the early
years of the project. This was contingent upon the assurance given by the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Affairs (MFEA) that sufficient funds for the Project would
become available, and the restructuring of the Project, including a reduction in the
number of road projects. Nevertheless, delays continued to occur during the second half
of the project, and all intended activities were not completed. As a matter of fact, even
civil works --the most satisfactory part of the project-- have not been completed by the
closing date of the loan.
18.   Lack of Counterpart Funds. During the early 90's, GOB negotiated with the IMF
a Structural Reform Program (SRP) which called in particular for a reduction in
Government expenditures, and resulted in GOB reducing its capital outlay program,
including the Project counterpart allocation. The levels of required counterpart funding
were extensively discussed at appraisal, concerned essential components to preserve the
road network, and were commensurate with the SRP. At the MTR, the Planning and
Priority Committee of the Cabinet agreed to increase the allocation to ensure the
implementation of the Project during the following four years (1995-1998) and
incorporate it into the medium-term Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP). As a
result, the PSIP allocated about US$ 8.92 million for the period FY95 to FY 98, which
eventually led to the extension of the loan by twenty-one months. Part of the extension
agreement included a reduction in the GOB contribution from about US$ 11.9 million to
US$ 10.8 million, and of the total project cost from US$ 21.2 million to US$ 18.5
million. Counterpart funds, however, never reached the US$ 2.4 million per annum



- 7 -
figure agreed upon when the loan was restructured and extended. The following table
compares the expected versus actual counterpart Funds (in US$ Million):
FY92/93  FY93/94  FY94/95  FY95/96   FY96197  FY97/98  FY98/99
Agreed   0.50      3.20      2.40      3.40      2.400     2.40      2.40
Actual  N/A        0.68      0.42      1.951     1.88      2.00      2.10
%      N/A       21%       17%      57%        78%       83%       88%
19.   Poor Planning. Problems with budgeting (regardless of the above-captioned
budgetary constraints), resource allocation, planning and preparing for individual
projects, have been experienced throughout project implementation, even after the
extension of the project closing date, and despite the creation of a Planning Unit and the
establishment of a Maintenance Management System which entailed only temporary
improvements. MPT's lack of success in attracting and retaining experienced staff
significantly contributed to this situation. It seems that MPT underestimated the
necessary time and efforts needed to adequately design, plan, tender and award civil
works, and procure equipment. MPT may also have not properly assessed
implementation issues usually encountered in civil works, such as relocation of housing
and utilities, which resulted in late start-up of the actual works and numerous delays
during implementation. Supervision engineers were also only recruited late in the
process.
20.   Lack ofAdherence to Procurement Procedures. The procurement process has
been slow, if not unpredictable, which has resulted in a late start-up of works and
numerous and significant delays. To a certain extent, the problems are attributed to the
lack of adherence to the Bank procurement procedures, which may not have always been
fully understood, which has resulted in a few ineligible expenditures. For example, the
incompatibility in procurement practices between the Bank and the GOB Tender
Committee's Financial Rules, resulted in twice searching Government approval for the
award for Overlay "A". Cabinet finally agreed to amend Part XII of the Financial Rules
to make provision for following and adhering to procurement procedures of the
International Financial Institutions (IFI's) only in March 1996, about three-and-a-half
years into the project's life. The lack of adherence to the Bank's International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures seems to have delayed the procurement of
equipment for the Mechanical Workshop towards the end of the project in FYs 1997 and
1998. Similarly, the rehabilitation of Highway Six was only tendered after the project's
extension, because MPT wanted to reactivate a three year old pre-qualification against the
Bank's judgment.
21.   Lack of Implementation and Monitoring Capacity. The capacity of GOB to
implement such a project has been weak throughout project implementation. and delays
have kept occurring as a result. Matters may have been complicated by the apparent lack
of commitment at the highest administrative levels, and ability of MPT to internalize and
implement policy reforms, which may have demobilized staff responsible for
implementation early on. Project management has not been very proactive, which has



- 8 -
worsened the negative effects of the above-captioned funding shortfall, lack of planning,
and inefficient procurement. One perennial issue explaining the above seems to have
been the difficulty to recruit and retain adequate staff in MPT. Supervising engineers
were often recruited late (sometimes after work inception), changes in the scope of works
were not discussed with the Bank, and supervision reports were often simplistic and not
submitted in a regular and timely manner.
22.   Lack of continuous commitment to the Project. There also seems to have been an
implicit inconsistency between the Bank's and MPT's objectives. This project was a
follow-up to the (first) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Loan 2432) which
was largely a civil works project. As such, MPT might have considered this project
basically another civil works project with, perhaps, some attempt (but not necessarily full
commitment) to (some) policy reforms. The Bank may not have drawn the lessons from
this first project as to the true intention and ability of MPT to implement the project, in
particular with regard to poiicy reforms.
23.  -InsufficientBankSupervision. Project supervision has suffered from too large a
turnover in Task Managers, which has not contributed to consistency, and certainly
reflected on implementation. Following upon agreements reached at the MTR has not
been effective, and supervision has thereafter been somewhat complacent and not very
proactive, and may not have always gathered the appropriate skills. Project performance
has not been appropriately assessed, particularly with regard to the lack of progress on the
policy reform front, and the lack of compliance with basic obligations regarding
procurement and counterpar-t funding. In addition, a number of legal covenants originally
complied with were not anymore after the MTR (e.g. staff back up to about 1,100; road
maintenance planning and programming, despite appropriate funding of routine
maintenance; institutionial strengthening; and BTB deficit over agreed threshold).
D. Project Sustainability
24.   Sustainability is unlikely to materialize at the level expected, as the project has
implemented only some of the physical components during the project implementation
period. Institutional and organizational reforms have been limited and unlikely to
positively and significantly affect future operations. Because of MPT's resistance to
adopting and implementing most recommendations regarding restructuring its operations,
improving road maintenance planning and management, reducing maintenance costs, and
increasing road maintenance funding and/or finding alternative independent sources of
revenue, preservation of the road system is expected to be insignificant. Likewise,
improvement of public transport is not expected to stem from this project as it remains
heavily subsidized in a non-transparent manner and operating at a loss, privatization of
BTB did not occur, and transport licensing and regulations remain under Government
authority. As most objectives were not fully achieved and reforms not implemented
during the almost six-and-half years of project implementation, the likelihood they would
be after Project completion is low.



-9-
25.   The little progress made in MPT programming and financial management
procedures and staff training will not significantly affect MPT operations. Road
rehabilitation, improved alignments and drainage, newly constructed sidewalks, and
reconstructed interchanges will remain limited and unsustainable achievements. The
available annual budget, which does not allow for periodic maintenance, and inefficient
routine maintenance will make it difficult to preserve the road network in a sustainable
manner. The failure of the RMBC pilot and the procurement of road maintenance
equipment under the loan strengthened MPT's ability to continue routine maintenance by
force-account, and may have reinforced its attitude that routine maintenance by force
account is cost effective in spite of numerous international studies which show otherwise,
and its own inefficiencies and high costs. The gradual mobilization of the private sector
which is necessary to meet the preservation requirements is unlikely to take place. As a
matter of fact, MPT employment after initial progress reached 1,091 in May 1998,
significantly back above the 800 threshold stipulated in the loan agreement.
26.   Privatization of the public transport sector, through the commercialization of the
BTB and the establishment of an Independent Public Transport Authority with a true
mandate and commitment to regulate the public transport sector (fares, routes, entries,
etc.) is highly unlikely. The so-called Interim Public Transport Authority has been
operating for three years as an interim body, has not carried out any significant action,
and has not shown any intention of doing so in the future. As counter productive actions
seem to have succeeded in halting any public transport reform in the past, there is no
reason to believe that reforms will materialize in the future.
E. Bank Performance
27.   Bank performance overall is considered deficient. It may be rated satisfactory
during identification, preparation and appraisal. Preparation started in mid 1990, about
1.5 years before the closure of the first project, and included four missions, including pre-
appraisal, between mid 1990 and late 1991. The appraisal mission took place in early
1992, board presentation and signing in mid-1992, and effectiveness was declared on
October 15, 1992. The analysis and rationale for the project were satisfactorily spelled
out in the SAR. Some components relied upon the implementation of too many
operational improvements and institutional reforms to be successful (e.g. support to
MPT's force account through the procurement of equipment and strengthening of road
maintenance by contract). The Bank may also have, on the basis of early assurances
during project preparation and early implementation, overestimated the commitment of
GOB/MPT to implement such a project, and/or has not been proactive enough in reacting
to its fading during implementation. The Bank may also not have optimally phased the
implementation of policy reforms. Furthermore, the public transport sector was slated for
policy reforms with hardly any financial incentive to back it up. Some components could
be considered somewhat contradictory as the Project: (i) did not design the RMBC pilot
to efficiently support the participation of small scale contractors in routine maintenance;
and (ii) encouraged at the same time force-account operations through the procurement of
equipment for the Mechanical Workshop in a significant US$ 3.0 million amount.



-10-
28.   Supervision has been deficient on a number of accounts, and is rated
unsatisfactory after the MTR. The supervision comprised of ten missions, including a
MTR mission with five Bank experts, plus one completion mission, and two non-
supervising missions by Bank's experts. In terms of sheer numbers, supervision has been
conducted on an adequate biannual basis. It, however, suffered from a high turn-over of
supervising officers, and has been inconsistent, and uneven in terms of substance and
impact on implementation. The Bank could have reacted earlier to the fiscal constraint
and not wait until the MTR, three years into Project implementation, to enter into serious
discussions with GOB regarding counterpart funding, and identify and/or act upon some
overwhelming deficiencies. In addition, if the MTR seems to have appropriately
identified major deficiencies and clearly set restructuring and extension plans, the most
unsettled supervision took place thereafter. Supervision should have been more
scrutinizing and proactive, and have anticipated that implementation problems could
repeat themselves. In particular, there has been no monitoring of disbursements for the
overlay program which were contingent on satisfactory progress with the BTB action
plan, and of the conditions set for the extension of the Project closing date, which resulted
in missed opportunities for the Bank to continue the policy dialogue. It is also surprising
that the Bank agreed to limit the goal of public transport competition only to Bridgetown,
an urban area where the private sector has been dominating anyway, and that it agreed to
limit the goal of privatization to only the rural areas through an amendment to the loan
agreement in November 1997. Supervision reports for the period 1996-1997 indicate
overall satisfactory progress despite obvious deficiencies, a lack of implementation of
policy reforms, and lack of compliance with a number of covenants.
F.    Borrower Performance
29.   The Borrower's overall performance is deemed deficient, based on the numerous
delays throughout implementation, the lack of proactive monitoring of activities, the lack
of counterpart funding, the slow and unpredictable procurement process, the partial or
total lack of compliance with many covenants, the lack of institutional strengthening, and
the failed implementation of policy and organizational reforms which is likely to entail a
lack of sustainability. Early progress has not been sustained, and commitment seems to
have faded away rapidly when difficult policy decisions were to be made. GOB does not
appear to have been committed at most levels of MPT, and/or have had the capacity, to
restructure MPT operations and adopt and implement policy reforms in the public
transport sector. There have been no significant efforts to internalize the
recommendations of technical assistants and studies in either the road or public transport
sectors.
30.   MPT has, however, managed to carry out a number of road contracts with some
degree of efficiency, upgrade its road maintenance fleet through the procurement of new
equipment, show progress in accounting through computerization, engage in various
training, and hire consultants to assist in implementation and carry out institutional and
organizational studies. Numerous changes in the scope of works (in particular from
overlay to reconstruction in the Overlay "B" program, and to some extent the
Rehabilitat.ion of Highway Six program) were, however, not discussed with the Bank.



- 1] -
Although no ex-post economic evaluation of the project civil works components has been
conducted, there are reasonable doubts that the revised works would have qualified as the
most effective and priority project to preserve the road network. Both these programs
were executed after the extension of the project, and are not yet completed.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
31.   Overall, the Project is rated unsatisfactory because of a general lack of sustainable
achievements, despite some degree of success of physical aspects. Institutional
strengthening has not taken place, and policy and organizational reforms, which were
supposed to set the foundations and sustain modernization and improved efficiency of the
road and public transport sectors, have not been implemented. In spite of the studies'
recommendations which called for significant changes in the operation and management
of the MPT/road maintenance sector and the BTB/public transport sector, no noticeable
change has occurred. Substantial and recurrent delays have occurred throughout
implementation and hampered the execution of most components. Some road works have
been completed but with delays, and in a significantly reduced number. Equipment was
procured too late, and its management was only very slightly improved. Early progress,
soon jeopardized by the lack of proactive implementation of necessary reforms, and
strengthening of MPT's planning and operational capacity limited to the successful
computerization of MPT financial operations and the establishment of a small planning
unit, are not sufficient to make the project satisfactory and ensure sustainability.
H. Future Operation
32.   The Borrower has not submitted any plan for the operational phase of the Project,
and has not indicated that it will prepare any implementation plan. The operation of the
project in the absence of Bank financing is, therefore, expected to be basically limited to
the road sector through the completion of the ongoing road works, and possibly the
maintenance of the rehabilitated roads as part the national maintenance program, although
itself deemed insufficient. Transport sector issues are not expected to be really addressed
now as they have not been during the Project implementation period.
I. Lessons Learned
33.   The following actions should be taken to avoid the deficiencies of this project in
future similar projects:
(i) make a realistic assessment of the Borrower's implementation capacity and conduct
systematic institutional risk assessment at appraisal; ensure that strengthening of
implementing agencies is carefully phased, supported and monitored, ensuring in
particular that training of staff takes place within a planned and comprehensive human
resources development framework, and as much as possible during the early stages of the
project; and follow upon required/agreed improvements in a timely manner, and carefully
monitor changes in Government's policy agenda and degree of commitment in order to
react quickly to changing implementation conditions;



-12 -
(ii) monitor compliance and commitment of the Borrower to provide counterpart funds
very closely at the highest governmental level and continuously during implementation,
using in particular the leverage provided by IMF and Bank macro instruments, and link
counterpart funding levels with reforms of the fiscal/funding mechanisms, in particular
those regarding maintenance;
(iii) make the Borrower a partner to policy reforms, rather than impose them, through
discussions, workshops, and seminars long before the start of the project to initiate the
reforms; ensure a complete understanding of the critical interdependence of all aspects of
the reforms program (as highlighted by contradictory actions regarding BTB); carefully
phase the implementation of reforms so that recommendations be absorbed and
implemented; focus early implementation on the adoption of those key reforms, and
building the consensus to implement them; and most importantly keep supervision
focused on institutional issues and monitor achievements in a timely manner. This is
particularly critical as a "change of minds and hearts" is a complicated time consuming
process, especially when capacity and/or commitment is not there, and/or a project is
aimed at simultaneous reforms in two sectors (e.g. roads and transport);
(iv) focus on implementing civil works in a well-planned manner and with clear
supervision and monitoring procedures, and ensure that programming systems put in
place under projects are maintained and kept operational over the years;
(v) include comprehensive local contractors development strategies and action plans
addressing issues within a specific economic context, and paralleling action plans to
strengthen operational capacity in road agencies and/or streamlining/decreasing
inefficient force account activities; and
(vi) improve Bank supervision, in particular through: (a) appropriate staffing; (b)
avoiding conflicting activities; (c) making provisions for full support to difficult and/or
controversial activities and reforms; (d) proactive follow-up on agreements; and (e)
avoiding too high a turn-over of Task Managers.
34.   The Borrower should engage in taking the long-recommended actions in the
public transport sector, in particular: (a) restructuring BTB as a commercialized company
designed for subsequent privatization in appropriately sized units to address its operating
losses; and (b) finalizing the legislation and institutional and transition arrangements for
the establishment of a permanent Independent Transport Licensing Authority (ITLA), the
equalization of all fiscal and operational regulations, and the rationalization of subsidies
and tariffs. The Borrower should consider alternative ways forward with regard to
sustainable and sufficient funding mechanisms for both routine and periodic maintenance,
and restructuring of road maintenance operations through contracting out works and
gradually reducing force account units. MPT should also implement the many
recommendations made regarding maintenance management and reinstate a full-fledged
planning and programming system.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of          Substantial    Partial     Negligible      Not
Objectives                                                         Applicable
Macro Policies                                                         X
Sector Policies                                           X
Financial Objectives                        X
Institutional Development                                 X
Physical Objectives                         X
Poverty Reduction                                                      X
Gender Issues                                                          X
Other Social Objectives                                                X
Environmental Objectives                                               X
Public Sector Management            _                     X
Private Sector Management                                 X
B. Project Sustainability      Likely          Unlikely    | Uncertain        l
C. Bank Performance            Highly        Satisfactory       Deficient
._______________________   Satisfactory
Identification                                    X
Preparation                                       X_
Appraisal                                         X
Supervision                                                         X
D. Borrower Performance        Highly         Satisfactory       Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                       X
Implementation                                                      x
Covenant Compliance                                                 X
Operation (if applicable)                                           X
E. Assessment of     Highly       Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     Highly
Outcome         Satisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
x                       I



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title          Purpose                              Year of   Status
Approval
Road Rehabilitation   Construction-31 km of roads;          1984    Closed
and maintenance     intersections improvements;                     Dec.
Project;            TA/institutional building in road traffic,      31,
Loan 2432-BAR       workshops, laboratory research, road            1991
maintenance and planning                    _
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned           Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project     N/A               January 1992
Summary)
Preparation                           N/A          May 1990- October 1991
Appraisal                             N/A               February 1992
Negotiations                          N/A                 May 1992
Board Presentation                    N/A               June 23, 1992
j Signing                              N/A               July 17, 1992
Effectiveness                         N/A              October 15, 1992
Midterm Review                        NIA           November 14-17, 1995
Project Completion                Mach 31, 1997         Dec. 31, 1998
i -                                .
Loan Closing                      Mach 31, 1997         Dec. 31, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY   1993   1994   1995    1996   1997   1998        1999
Appraisal Estimate         2.70   9.20   16.10   19.60   21.20        -
Revised Appraisal Estimate    1.70   2.66    5.14    6.51   13.41   18.50   18.50
Actual /a                   1.70   2.66    5.14    6.51    6.91    8.91     16.40
Actual as % of Estimate    63%    29%      32%     33%    33%    N/A         N/A
Actual as % of Revised      N/A    N/A     N/A    N/A    51%    48%         88% a
Estimate                                                        |
Date of Final Disbursement                                      l        03/25/99
aI Based on Bank's Procurement Office, as of June 15, 1999, last recorded disbursement
March 25, 1999.



- 15-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation Indicators in SAR       Estimated                     Actual
I. CIVIL WORKS
A. REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Highway 6: Searls - Six Roads        6.1 km                   6.1 km. Well advanced, but not
completed yet. Expected
completion March 1999
Highway 6: Collymore Rock            0.7 km                   Excluded from the program
B. SAFETY PROGRAM                      Intersections improvement,  Intersections improvement,
separate turning lanes,  sidewalks, and drainage
sidewalks, and drainage  construction in only two (2,
construction in five (5)  intersections
intersections
Rendezvous - H'way 7                 Junction improvement     Junction improvement.
Completed April 1994
Codrington - Cave Hill              Junction improvement      Junction improvement
Completed March 1997. Design
was revised to include
engineering improvements. A
second phase was introduced to
include additional 145 m. of
road work, with major rock cut
and drainage.
Pine EW - Pine NS                    Junction Improvement     Excluded from revised program
Thombury - H'way 7                   Junction Improvement     Excluded from revised program
Rendezvous - Golf club Road         Junction Improvement      Excluded from revised programn_
Sidewalks Improvement                Not specified as a special   Included in both "Safety" and
program in the in SAR    "Overlay" programs
C. OVERLAY PROGRAM                     Overlay high-priority     Not executed as planned.
roads. Goal: 150.3 km in 4  Executed only package "A" and
years                    "B" (not "C" and "D"), with
significant variations
(particularly in "B").
Package "A"                          34.6 km in project's year 1  34.6 km. Completed March
(1992/93), including     1995, project's year 3 (1995/96)
drainage work
Package "B"                          37.5 km in project's year 2  Executed largely as road
(1993/94)                reconstruction (see Section II -
Modified Indicators). Well
advanced, but expected full
completion only in June 199,
project's year 7 (1998/99)
Package "C"                          39.8 km in project's year 3  Removed from the Loan
Package "D"                          38.4 km in project's year 4  Removed from the Loan
D. BRIDGES AND CULVERTS                Three packages to         Rehabilitate 4 Bridges and 4
rehabilitate 3 Bridges and   culverts; four packages at



- 16-
I. Key Implementation Indicators in SAR       Estimated                     Actual
4 culverts. Expected     Treasure Beach, Buccaneer Bay,
original completion      Farm Road and Hothersal
1993/94.                 Turning. Completed by
February 1996
E. RMBC PILOT PROGRAM                  Routine maintenance by    Routine maintenance by
contract. 65 km over 2 yrs,  contract. 65 km over 2 yrs, by
by small-scale competitive  the two largest road construction
local contractors        companies in Barbados
II. EQUIPMENT
New Equipment                        112 Units                108 Units
Spare parts for Rehab. and Maintenance   10% of New Unit $    10% of New Unit $
Bus Fareboxes                        150 Fareboxes            100 Fareboxes
III. INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
Technical Assistance                Rd. Maintenance- 18      Rd. Maintenance- 18 months;
Specialists (in Man-Months)         months; Equip.           Equip. management- 12 months;
management- 12 months;   cost accounting 9 months. TA &
cost accounting 9 months   study completed Feb. 1996.
Studies (Rationalization of Road    Study                    Study, completed Feb. 1995
Network)
Studies (Computerization of MPT)    Study                    Study, Completed July 1997
Training - Transport Board          Short-term consultancy, 3   Short-term consultancy, 3 man-
man-months               months
Training - Local, MPT               Various training programs   Various training programs
Training - Foreign, MPT             Various training programs   Various training programs



- 17-
II. Modified Indicators                   Estimated                   Actual
OVERLAY PROGRAM - Package "B"    Overlay of 37.5   Significantly more than an overlay
km in project's   program. Includes large elements of road
year 2 (1993/94)  reconstruction. Includes nine (9) road
segments listed below. Construction
period: April 1997 - April 1999 (beyond
project completion date).
H'way N - Rock Hall, St. Philip to     Overlay         Has not been started yet Will not be
Crane/Union Junction                                   covered by the Bank loan
H'way W - Constant to Mapp, Hill St.   Overlay         Road Widening and reconstruction. Started
George                                                  September 1998, not completed yet.
H'way 4 - My Lord Hill, Welches, Fairfield   Overlay   Road widening, sidewalks and overlay.
Well advanced but not completed.
Roebuck Street "triangle"              Overlay          Sidewalk, safety improvements and
overlay. Completed 1997
Spring Garden Highway                  Overlay         Overlay, sidewalks and shoulder
rehabilitation. Completed 1997
Hoytes Village Road                    Overlay         Road widening, sidewalks and drainage;
well advanced but not completed
Trents Road                            Overlay          Significant road reconstruction, including
significant earthwork - A new connector
H'way 2A to H'way 1. Started June 1998,
not completed yet.
Ben Hill Road                          Overlay          Road widening, drainage, sidewalks; near
completion
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not Applicable)



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose as Defined in     Status                                  Impact of Study
SAR
"Mechanization of IFAS      Computerize the         Delivered,    Unsuccessful. The program was abandoned due to lack of progress on part of the
System," by Clake and      integrated financial and    unsatisfactory  consultants. Was replaced later by the successful Neria study, 1997 (below)
Straughn Associates Inc.    administrative accounting  in 1993, and
systems of the MPT      abandoned
"Road Network               Defines the set of      Completed,   The study had quite a limited impact on the workings of the MPT. The study
Rationalization Study," by  maintenance policies and   August 1994   developed a system of rationalizing road maintenance, including a computerized data-
N.D. Lea International,     a system by which each                base, which indicates the physical conditions an the traffic on each road segment.
Canada; in association with    route is assigned a policy         However, the maintenance of the data base--which is essential for effective utilization
Consulting Engineers        based on its physical                 of the system--had been limited. Due to breakage of measurement instruments to
Partnership, Barbados       condition and traffic                 assess Intemational Roughness Index, the evaluation of physical conditions have been
level. The study should              limited to sight inspection. Furthermore, due to shortage of manpower, the data-base
be implemented as early              is not maintained on regular bases. The study provided a one-time effort to program
as possible to use its                priorities for maintenance , but are not likely to result in sustainable improvement as
results for implementation            the MPT did nor organize its services to operate the system on regular basis. All-in-all
of the four-year road                 the maintenance policy seems to remain operating ad-hock, rather than in a systematic
Maintenance Plan                      manner envisioned by the study.
"Technical Assistance and   Provide technical       Completed,    Only partial impact, as only part of the This TA had only partial impact, as only part
Road Maintenance and        assistance in road      February 15,  of the recommendations and computerized packages have been integrated into the
Equipment Management        maintenance operation,    1996        standards working procedures of the MPT. The TA developed systems and
Study," by Wilbur Smith     equipment and workshop                procedures for road maintenance operation, and management systems for the
Associates, in association with  management,                      maintenance equipment and mechanical workshop, including performance standards,
David Lashley & Partners    computerized cost                     quantity standards and job description, as well as three data manager software
accounting and data-base              packages: Cost Accounting System (CAS), Maintenance Management System (MMS),
management for                        and Maintenance Budget System (MPB). The MPT staff was trained during the TA
maintenance activities.,              period on various aspects of the new, computerized management system. However,
even the consultant indicated, that further progress toward complete
institutionalization of these procedures required additional technical assistance.
Among other, the study highlighted a number of constraints to the establishment of
small maintenance contractors, but did not provide a careful analysis of conditions for
attracting and strengthening them.



"Computerization of MPW,"    Computerize the        Completed     Overall considered a success. the system is working, and the MPT is using the
by Neria Consulting         accounting and          July, 1997    computerized accounting and administrative system on a regular basis.
Engineering                 administrative systems of
the MPT; integrate all
departments into one
information network
"Technical Assistance to                            Completed    Hardly any impact. The Neilson's report follows two other recent reports:
Establish the Barbados Public                       July, 1998    "The Barbados Public Transport Study (BPTS), 1994," and National Transport Plan
Transport Authority," by                            (Not financed  (NTP), 1996, which called for the establishment of the Transport Authority (TA).
Neilson Consulting Ltd., Hong                       by the IBRD)  Nevertheless, no action have been taken yet with regard to the: (a) rationalization of the
Kong                                                              tariffs through staged tariffs; (b) restructuring BTB as a commercialized company,
and (c) the establishment of a new competitively based licensing system. No permanent
TA has been established yet, and the TA has been operating as an interim body without
any significant action for the last three years.



-20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs /a
Item                  Appraisal  Estimate                  Actual  Latest
(US$  Million)                   (US$  Million)
Local     Foreign      Total      Local     Foreign      Total      Comments
Costs      Costs                  Costs      Costs
1. Civil Works
A. Rehabilitation Program
H'way 6: Searles to Six Rd.             0.90        1.10       2.10        1.50       1.82        3.32  /b
H'way 6: Collymore Rock                 0.20        0.20       0.40                  0.83-           -  CANCELED
Subtotal                              1.10       1.3         2.4        1.50        1.82       3.32
B. Safety Program            _
Rendezvous - H'way 7                    0.30        0.40       0.80        0.39       0.45        0.84  /c
Codrington - Cave Hill                  0.20        0.30       0.50        0.81      0.83-        1.64  Id
Pine EW - Pine NS                       0.10        0.10       0.30          -           -          -  CANCELED
Thornbury - H'way 7                     0.20        0.20       0.30                                 -  CANCELED
Rendezvous - Golf Club Rd.              0.10        0.10       0.20                                 -  CANCELED
Sidewalks                               N/A         N/A        N/A        N/A         N/A        N/A
Subtotal                              0.90       1.10        2.10       1.20        1.28       2.48
C. Overlay Program                                                                          __         _ _
Package"A"                              1.00        3.90       4.80        0.90       3.25       4.15
Package "B"                             0.80        2.50       3.40        1.56       5.07        6.63  /e
Package "C"                              1.80       1.80       3.60           -          -           -  CANCELED
Package "D"                              170        1.70       3.50                      -           -  CANCELED
Subtotal                              5.30       9.90        15.20      2.46       8.32        10.78
D. Bridges and Culverts                  .                                   0.08        0.11       0.19
Treasure Beach & Buccaneer Bay          __  ___        _ _                 0.04       0.05        0.19
Farm Road & Hothersal Turning                                             0.04        0.06       0.10
Subtotal                              0.20       0.20        0.40       0.16        0.22       0.38
D. RMBC Pilot Program                 0.30       0.40        0.6        0.26        0.32       0.58
11. Land Acquisition                  1.50       0.00        1.50       N/A         0.00       N/A
111. Equipment
New Equipment                            0.00       0.70        0.70       0.00        3.17       3.17  /f
Spare Parts                              0.10       0.10        0.10       0.03        0.32        035
Bus Fareboxes                            0.00       0.20        0.20       0.00        0.09       0.09
Subtotal                              0.10       2.60        2.60       0.03       3.58        3.61
IV. Institutional Strengthening
Technical Assistance                      0.00        0.6         0.6
H'way Maint. Management Consulting       N/A        N/A         N/A        0.00        0.05       0.05
IFAS (Acet System) Computerization       N/A        N/A         N/A        0.00        0.03       0.03
Studies
Rationalization of Rd. Network Study     0.00        0.20       0.20        0.00       0.32        0.32
Computerization Study                    0.00        0.40       0.40        0.03       0.13        0.16
Rd. Maint. & Equipment Manag. Study      N/A         N/A        N/A         0.00       0.59        0.59
Public Transport Authority Study         N/A        N/A         N/A        0.11        0.00       0.11
Training                     _                                       _                   _
Training - Transport Board               0.30       0.30        0.50       N/A         N/A        N/A
Training - Local MPT                     0.10       0.10        0.10       0.00        0.00       0.0.0
Training - Foreign MPT                   0.20       0.20        0.20       0.00        0.39       0.39  /g
Subtotal                              0.30       1.70        2.00       0.14        1.51       1 .59
Physical Contingencies                0.80       1.30        2.10       N/A         N/A        N/A
Price Contingencies                   1.50       2.70        4.20       N/A         N/A        N/A
TOTAL COST                            12.00      21.20       33.10      5.75        17.05      22.80
Note: Figures in US$ may not add up to the total because of rounding



- 21 -
Comments
/aActual is based on MPT Financial Report forDecember, 31 1999. Foreign cost include outstandinig rcinbursement. Actual
reimbursement by the Bank as of December 15, 1998 was US$ 13.58 million
/b Including outstanding reimbursement US$ 315,000. Project will be completed after December 31, 1998. Total contract cost
US$ 4.6 million
/c Total expenditure US$ 864,500
/d Total expenditure US$ 1.8 million. A supposedly outstanding reimbursement of US$ 162,500 was rejected by the Bank
/e Including outstanding reimbursement of US$ 393,000
/f Including outstanding reimbursement of US$ 668,000
/g Including outstanding reimbursement of US$ 61,000
Table 8B: Project Financing /a
Item                               Appraisal  Estimate           Actual/  Latest         Estimate
(US$   Million)                         (US$   Million) /a
Local        Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign        Total
Costs         Costs                       Costs         Costs
IBRD Project                          12.0           18.5         30.5            5.8         12.7           18.5
CDB Project /b                        4.00            9.6         13.6
TOTAL                                 16.0           28.1         43.1            5.8         12.7           18.5
/a Actual is based on MPT Financial Report for December, 31 1999. Foreign cost include outstanding
reimbursement. Actual reimbursement by the Bank as of March 25, 1999 was US$16.4 million
/b Included funds channeled by the Bank to the CBD for constructing two access roads to Highway 2A:
Clermont Rd.. and Canewood Rd. However, they were not part of the project.



- 22 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No ex-post analysis has been conducted, as no reference to the economic evaluation were
found in the Project files. The borrower was requested to conduct an ex-post HDM
analysis, and/or provide the initial economic analysis report, but did not comply.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree    Section    Covenant  Present   Original        Revised            Description of Covenant                             Comments
ment                  Type      Status   Fulfilimen   fulfillment
t date       date
Loan    Schedule    09          CP                                  Furnish evidence satisfactory to the Bank    Partially complied with. Budgets have regularly increased
5.1                                                        on the amount of expenditures incurred by   from 92 to this 98/99 FY from US$ 6.6 to 10 million.
the borrower in respect of road        They are, however, insufficient to cover needed periodic
maintenance in the previous FY and the  maintenance, with high unit costs (not counting equipment
amount of resources allocated in its budget  use and depreciation) largely resulting from rather
for the current FY.                    expensive force account operations.
Loan    Schedule    05          C                                   Incorporate the Ministry Planning Unit  Complied with. Based on the recommendations of the
5_2                                                        into the organizational structure of the  National Transport Plan Final Report, the Planning Unit
Ministry's Technical Department.       was strengthened and incorporated into the Transport
Planning Secretariat of the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport (rather than being made part of the Ministry's
Technical Department)
Loan    Schedule    05          CP                                  Furnish to the Bank: (a) A description of   Partially Complied with. The lists of roads for Overlays in
5.3                                                        the roads to be overlaid by the borrower,    FY 97/98 and FY 98/99 have been prepared and submitted
utilizing exclusively the Ministry's own  to the Bank. However, overlays are used as periodic
staff and resources, in the upcoming FY  maintenance by force account, which may not be cost
and (b) an economic analysis, satisfactory   effective as compared to other resealing techniques, and no
to the Bank providing the justification for   economic analysis seems to have been conducted for the
the respective overlay works.         latest priority setting.
Loan    Schedule    12          CP                                  (a) Furnish an action plan satisfactory to   Partially complied with. The Ministry has not proceeded
5.4 (a)                                                    the Bank, for private sector participation in  with endorsing alternative options to enhancing the limited
routine maintenance activities, such action   private sector capacity to undertake maintenance by
plan to be based on the results of the pilot   contract. MPT did not prepare a time-bound plan of action
program referred to in part a.5 of the  to develop/help creating small contractors and/or
project; and                           strengthen the capacity of those already existing in terms
of business and site management, with specific actions
regarding financial capacity, adapted bidding procedures,
and access to equipment.
Loan    Schedule    12          NC                                  (b) Implement, in a manner and under a  Not complied with. Plan not submitted cannot be
5.4 (b)                                                    timetable satisfactory to the Bank, the  implemented.
action plan.
Loan    Schedule    05          C                                   (a) Employ the consultants for road    Complied with. The final report of the Road Maintenance



5.5 (a)                                                    maintenance and workshop improvement   and Equipment Management Study has been finalized by
referred to in part B. I of the project;  the firm Wilbur Smith.
Loan    Schedule    05          CP                                  (b) Have operational a road maintenance    Partially complied with. No recommendation with regard
5.5 (b)                                                    system, satisfactory to the Bank, based on   to establishing proper accounting procedures in the
the results of the above technical assistance  Workshop and MPT operational units and force account
and the Bank's comments thereon.       operations to obtain a better picture of the true
maintenance costs by better accounting for equipment
operating costs and depreciation. The road maintenance
system has not been really reorganized as a result of the
study.
Loan    Schedule    05          C                                   (a) Employ consultants to assist in the  Complied with. The firm N. D. Lea completed the Road
5.6 (a)                                                    carrying out of the road network       Network Rationalization Study-RNR. T'he consultants'
rationalization study referred to under part  recommendations were considered in preparing the
b.2 (a) of the project;                1995/96 maintenance program. Maintenance plans are
prepared but are not sufficient to cover needed periodic
maintenance. Maintenance planning was improved, but
not in a sustainable manner as the maintenance
management system has not been operated for two years
due to broken down BIs and a lack of organization at the
territorial level to conduct surveys. No further
development seems to have occurred in terms of network
management.
Loan    Schedule    12          NC                                  (b) Furnish an action plan, satisfactory to    Not complied with. No action plan to improve network
5.6 (b)                                                    the Bank, based on the results of the above   management was submitted.
study and the Bank's comments thereon.
Loan    Schedule    12          NC                                  (c) Implement in a manner and under a  Not complied with. Plan not submitted cannot be
5.6 (c)                                                    timetable satisfactory to the Bank the  implemented.
action plan in (B) above.
Loan    Schedule    05          C                                   (a) Employ consultants to assist in the  Complied with. Study completed by Mr. Neria.
5.7 (a)                                                    carrying out of the study for the      Computerization ongoing, and procurement of computers
mechanization of MPT accounts referred to  partly done.
under part B.2(B) of the project;



Loan    Schedule    05           CP                                   (b) Have operational mechanized         Partially complied with. Development completed and
5.7 (b)                                                      accounting system satisfactory to the Bank   system installed. MPT staff havc been trained in the use of
in place.                               the system. Remaining difficulties to obtain overall budget
and detailed Project accounts. Accounts not properly and
exhaustively managed, and difficult to reconcile accounts
with disbursement figures for a number of components.
Loan    Schedule    05           CP                                   Furnish final engineering design's,     Partially complied with: Done for early Bank-financed
5.8                                                          satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of the    works. Latest overlay contract change in the scope of
overlay works to be carried out under part   works not well documented.
a.3 of the project (overlay program) for
each fiscal year.
Loan    Schedule    05           CP                                   In respect of the road maintenance plan,  Partially complied with. Productivity standards set forth to
5.9                                                          achieve the productivity standards set forth  achieve road maintenance plans have been somewhat
below: pot hole patching (5 ton of ac  reached (38 standards have been updated and approved).
placed); manual drain cleaning (0.1 km
cleaned); guard rail repair (15 m replaced
manual weeding (I km roadside); culvert
maintenance(l culvert repaired); concrete
slipper repair (20 m replaced); resurfacing
(300 ton ac placed); and surface treatment
(1000 m2 resealed).
Loan    Section      01          C                                    Borrower to open and maintain in dollars a   Complied with. Special account operated on a small scale.
2.02 (b)                                                     special deposit account in the Central
Bank.
Loan    Section      05          CP                                   Conduct the Project with due diligence and   Partially complied with. Equipment Manager, workshop
3.01(a)                                                      efficiency and in conformity with        Accountant, and Environmental Officer were appointed.
appropriate engineering, financial,     Funds not up to expectations.
administrative and environmental
practices, and provide funds, facilities and
services required for the Project.
Loan    Section      11          C                                    Borrower to: (i) furnish to the Bank an  Complied with. An Investment Plan was prepared and
3.01 (b) (i)                                                 update of the investment program;        agreed as a condition of the extension of the Closing Date.
No update was submitted thereafter.



Loan    Section       04          NC                                     (ii) Provide in its annual budget and make    Not complied with:   Counterpart funds were made
3.01(b) (ii)                                                    available as counterpart funds for the    available as follows (US$ million): 92/93: n.a;  93/94:
project following minimum amounts: (a)    0.685; 94/95: 0.416; 95/96: 1.951; 96/97: 1.88; 97/98:
$0.5 million for 1992/93; (b)$3.2 million  2.00; 98/99: 2.10. All figures are below targets, and the
forl993/94; (c)$2.4 million for 1994/95;    latest figure is still lower than the US$ 2.4 million
(d) $3.4 million for 1995/96 and (e)$2.4  originally earmarked for the original latest implementation
million for FY 1996/97.                   96/97 FY, and despite the revised loan amount and GOB
.______  ._______.__                                                                                   counterpart funding levels.
Loan    Section       05          CP                                     (iii) Carry out the institutional         Partially complied with.  Studies completed and some
3.01 (b)                                                        strengthening component in accordance     training  took  place, but no  significant institutional
(iii)                                                           with TOR satisfactory to the Bank.        strengthening is evident as the MPT structure remains the
same with a strong focus on force account operations and
central control/monitoring, and no major policy reforms
were adopted as a result of said studies.
Loan    Section       09          CP                                     Borrower to furnish to the Bank a quarterly  Partially complied with.  Reports have been regularly
3.02                                                            report on the progress of the project,    submitted, but detailed reports are still expected for
including; (a) a section de tailing progress    previous FY and implementation period until closing of
in implementation of each project         project.  No proposals for adjustment were submitted
component; and (b) specific and justified  recently.
proposal for adjustments in project
implementation based on the results of the
previous year.
Loan    Section       09          C                                      Borrower to:(a) hold a mid-term review    Complied  with.  MTR   held  and  project  slightly
3.03                                                            with the Bank to evaluate the progress in    restructured. Transport policy remains problematic, and
the execution, and in the achievement of  road operations are still centrally monitored and managed
the objectives of the project; and (b) if as a   without sufficient funds for all needed maintenance works.
result of the above review progress is not
satisfactory to the Bank, the Bank shall
request to achieve such objectives.
Loan    Section       05          CP                                     Borrower to:(a) carry out the road        Partially complied with. Latest rolling maintenance plan
3.04 (a)                                                        maintenance plan with due diligence and   for next three FYs not submitted. Environmental standards
efficiency;                               do not seem to be taken into account in a formalized way.
Loan    Section       03          CP                                     (b) Provide or cause to be provided, in a  Partially complied with.  Adequate funds have been
3.04 (b)                                                        timely manner, the funds, facilities,     allocated  to  routine  maintenance.  . However,  the
services and other resources required for  maintenance plan does not include enough resources for
the implementation of the road            periodic maintenance.
maintenance plan;



Loan    Section      05          C                                    (c) Submit to the Bank an update of the  Complied with. Latest plan for next FY submitted
3.04 (c)                                                     road maintenance plan;
Loan    Section      09          CP                                   (d) Identical to covenant 5.1           Partially complied with (see covenant 5.1)
3.04 (d)
Loan    Section      11          C                                    (e) Provide in its annual budget for each  Complied with. Funds allocated to road maintenance from
3.04 (e)                                                     FY and amount of US$ 3 million           92/93 to present (US$ million): 92/93: 2.5; 93/94: 2.5;
equivalent for expenditures made in     94/95: 2.5; 95/96: 2.92; 96/97: 3.8; 97/98: 3.8, and 98/99:
respect of road maintenance materials.  4.03.  These figures show that the covenant has been
complied with for the past three FYs.
Loan    Section      05          CP                                   Borrower to : (a) Maintain in the Ministry    Partially complied with.  The Ministry endeavors to
3.05 (a)                                                     an organizational structure satisfactory to    maintain the structure as it is, but is still struggling with
the Bank, for purposes of implementing the  recruiting and retaining adequate staff. To monitor the
Project and the Road Maintenance Plan;  project physical progress, a  consultant supervision
engineer and a consultant quantity surveyor have been
recruited.
Loan    Section      05          C                                    (b) Inform the Bank of any proposed     Not rated. No proposed changes made
3.05 (b)                                                     changes in its organization structure; and
Loan    Section      05          C                                    (c) Maintain a Project Coordinator with  Complied with. Function entrusted on Chief Planning
3.05 (c)                                                     functions, qualifications and experience  Officer of MPT.
acceptable to the Bank.
Loan    Section      12          C                                    Deleted                                 Covenants 29 and 30 deleted as related to privatization of
3.07 (a)                                                                                              Transport Board deleted when project extended. However,
actions agreed at the mid-term review have not been
complied with (program for the restructuring of BTB,
initially as a commercialized company operating subject to
the normal company law of the land, and in a form
designed for subsequent privatization in appropriately
sized units; establishment, by end March 1997, of a new
competitively based licensing system, including the
legislative or administrative actions necessary to establish
an independent Transport Licensing Authority, together
with transition arrangements from the present permit
system to the new system and the equalization of all fiscal,
fee and quality regulation arrangements as between private
and public sector operators).
Loan    Section      C           12                                   Deleted                                 This covenant has been deleted. (Please see Covenant 29
3.07 (b)               I _                      _I                                                    above).



Loan    Section      C           12                                   Borrower to submit to its Parliament: (a)    Complied with. Transport Levy Act abolished in 1993.
3.08 (a)                                                     proposed legislation to amend the
Transport Levy Act to either permit that
the amounts payable as transport levy (as
defined in the Transport Levy Act) be
utilized for general public expenditures or
directly abolish such transport levy; and
Loan    Section      06          NC                                   (b) Proposed legislation to amend the   Not complied with. A draft Quarries Act has been
3:.08 (b)                                                    Quarries Act to include adequate        produced. It is still awaiting presentation to Parliament.
safeguards for environmental hazards.
Loan    Section      05         NC                                    Borrower to: (a) Maintain in the Ministry a  Not complied with. Employment at MPT has reached
3.09 (a)                                                     level of staff assigned to road maintenance   1,091 (a figure well above the agreed 800 threshold), and
activities not in excess of 800 employees;   there is concern that regularization of casual laborers and
operators as civil servants is being considered.
Loan    Section      05          C                                    (b) Carry out road overlay works in     Complied with. GOB carries out about 20 km per year of
3.09 (b)                                                     accordance with a program satisfactory to   overlay as periodic maintenance. The Bank-financed
the Bank, such overlay works to cover at    overlay program cannot be considered here as it mainly
least 25Km of roads during each Fiscal  consists of rehabilitation works. In addition, the GOB-
Year and to be executed with the        financed program does not cover all needs despite its being
Ministry's own staff and resources.    fairly expensive, which suggests that contracting out such
works could be cost-effective.
Loan    Section      05          NC                                   Borrower to implement, in a manner and  Not complied with. The restructuring of BTB to make it a
3.10                                                         under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank,   commercial entity prior to its privatization is not
the Transport Board Plan.               progressing. The agreement to appoint an Independent
Transport Licensing Authority- (ITLA) is gradually being
amended to create a Public Transport Authority (PTA) to
serve as a planning/programming/route
allocation/monitoring unit for GOB. In addition clause
1.01 (m) stipulating to reduce BTB annual cash deficit to
US$ 2million or less is not complied with anymore as
deficit has gone back over the US$ 2 million threshold
since 1995/1996.
Loan    Section      05          CP                                   Borrower to carry out the Project and the    Partially complied with. Project implementation plan
3.11                                                         Road Maintenance. Plan in accordance    delayed (inter alia major contracts not completed by
with the Implementation Program set forth  closing date), and maintenance program carried out as per
in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.    minimum requirements.



Loan    Section      01          C                                    Borrower to maintain or caused to be    Complied with: Accounts mostly appropriately kept now,
4.01(a)                                                      maintained records and separate accounts    but no detailed records of early years can be found.
adequate to reflect in accordance with
sounds accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in
To___a____Section________ respect of the Project of Ministry.
Loan    Section      01          C                                    Borrower to: (i) have the records and   Complied with: MPT has met audit requirements up to the
4.01(a)                                                      accounts referred to in (A) including those   period FY97/98, and latest FY97/98 report submitted in
for the special account for each Fiscal Year  time.
audited; (ii) furnish to the Bank the report
of such audit; and ( iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof,
as the Bank shall request
Covenant Types:
I = Accounts/audit
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds
4  counterpart funding
5 = management aspects of the project or executing agency
6  Environmental covenants
7  Involuntary resettlement
8 -= Indigenous people
9= Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = other
Present Status:
C - Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
CP= Complied with partially
NC = Not complied with
NYD = Not Yet Due



- 30 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(Not Applicable)
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
statement (OD or OP/BP):
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of          Planned                Actual
Project Cycle        Staff-      uS$       Staff-      US$
Weeks                Weeks
Through Appraisal          N/A        N/A        11.7       27,295
Appraisal                  N/A        N/A        30.9       83,329
Negotiation To Board       N/A        N/A         3.2        8,844
Supervision                N/A        N/A        54.4      215,398
Completion/a               N/A        N/A         7.8      25,280
TOTAL/                           .              108.0      337,394
/a As of January 1999



- 31 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance   Rating /a
Stage of Project   Month/  Number    Days    Specialized Staff   Implement-    Develop-                 Type
Cycle           Year       of         in           Field            ation         ment               of
Persons    Field       Represented        Status      Objections        Problems
Through Appraisal
Preparation          5/90     1          7         00
Preparation         10/90     2          8         00, HE
Preparation          4/91    2           8         00, HE
Pre-appraisal        10191    2          19        00, HE
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Appraisal            2/92     1          11        HE
Appraisal            2/92     2          8         00, TS                          .
Supervision
Supervision 1        1/93     1         10         00 
Supervision 2        9/93     1          8         00                2               1            Implementation 9-12
months behind. PP
Road Fund Seminar    2/95     1          2         TS                N/A            N/A           N/A
Supervision 3        6/94     1          5         00                2               1            Implementation 12
months behind. PP,
CF, SPR
Supervision 4        6/95     1          7         00                U              U             Implementation 18-24
months behind. PP,
CF, SPR, PMP
Mid-Term Review     11/95     5          4         00, HE, TS, E,    U               U            PP, C, CF, SPR
DC
Non-Motorized        2/96     1          4         TS                N/A             N/A          N/A
Transport Fact
Finding Mission
Supervision 5       9/96      1          5         00                U               S            Implementation about
2 years behind. PP, C,
CF, SPR
Supervision 6:       3/97     1         5          00                N/A            N/A           N/A
Review Extension
of Closing Date
Supervision 7        6/97     2         6          00, E             S               S            PP, SPR
Supervision 8       12/97     1         9          00                S               S            PP, SPR
Supervision 9        5/98     3         2          00, 00, HE        U               U            PP, SP, SPR, C
Completion            12/98    2          5          00, TS            U              U            PP, SPR, C
/a Based on Project Status Reports (Form 590)
Staff Skills: DC= Division Chief, E= Engineer, HE= Highway Engineer, 00 Operation Officer, TS= Transport Specialist
Problems: C= Compliance with Covenants, CF= Counterpart Funding, FP= Financial Performance, Progress, PP= Procurement
Progress, PMP= Project Management Progress, SP= Studies Progress, SPR= Sector Policy Reforms, TAP= Technical Assistance
Progress






- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Implementation
Completion Report
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Loan 3493- BAR
Prepared by
Ministry of Public Works & Transport
BARBADOS
June 1999



- 34-
Implementation Completion Report
Assessment of Objectives
The Original Objectives of the project were to:
1. preserve the capital base of road infrastructure within the constraints on capital and current
expenditures;
2. improve road maintenance planning and practices;
3. reduce investnent costs through the transfer of all capital works to the private sector and
explore the feasibility of private sector participation in routine maintenance;
4. imnprove road safety; and
5. help the Government in its efforts to privatize passenger transport services.
With regard to the above objectives during the project period, the Ministry
- has been partially able to improve the road infrastructure but not to the extent as originally
planned. It is estimated that only about 40 % of the road overlay and 80 % of the road
rehabilitation were completed;
* has substantially completed an overhaul of the maintenance planning and practices, but did
not succeed in the fill computerisation of the road/workshop maintenance operations. The
link between the base (Headquarters) and the field (depots) is not satisfactory, with the links
being carried out manually;
* has allowed all major road works to be tendered and be carried out by the private sector, and
has carried out a pilot project for routine maintenance by contract However the pilot project
was largely unsuccessful, and all maintenance work is presently being done by force account
but furhier discussion is taling place with small contractors to determine how best the
contracting of routine maintenance works may be carried out.
* completed the design and planning of most of the safety projects. However the Ministry has
only partially completed the safety projects; and
* made initial advances in efforts to privatise passenger transport, but these efforts somewhat
levelled off towards the end of the project



- 35-
Evaluation of Ministrv's Performance
During the First Road Maintenance and Road Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2432 BAR),
the project was executed by Force Account, but no Force Account was used under 3493 BAR.
This Ministry's overall performance can only be described as fair and the reasons for this
are as set out below.
i)   Structural Adjustment measures during the period 1992- 1994 meant that
inadequate funds were available and the project was delayed;
ii)   the use of the private sector for all of the projects meant that more planning and
design work was required, especially at the start. The Ministry was never able
to recruit the professional technical staff required to carry out the project prior to
start-up nor during the project period. Consequently, design work was severely
affected - particularly road projects involving land acquisition. While the
recruitment of consultants was helpful, no funds were provided in the project for
the hiring of these consultants, even though attempts were made to include such
activity as a component after the Loan had been signed;
iii)  the scope of the projects changed significantly, particularly the overlay
components.
It is clear that the project objective of "preserving of adequate standards
on the existing primary roads and secondary roads networks by carrying out a
comprehensive overlay program to raise standards and prevent deterioration of the
existing network" was not investigated adequately, since a more detailed analysis
would have shown that many roads had reached the point where it would have
been a waste of money simply to overlay without carrying out basic rehabilitation,
and constructing sidewalks and other safety and drainage features.
Barbados as a developing country has shown rapid growth in road traffic
of over 5% annually over the project period with little evidence of any significant
reduction in the near future. Furthermore there has been growth in the number of
pedestrians using the roads, swelled by increasing tourist arrivals. Overlay of
roads, thus increasing speeds without improving their safety features, was
considered irresponsible, especially since road safety was one of the objectives of
the project. This deficiency was recognised after the findings of the Road
Rationalisation Study. Features such as sidewalks, junction improvements,
strengthening of road bases for improved drainage were therefore included in the
overlay programme (Package B), and these additional features significantly
increased the cost of the package;
iv   there has been muddled thinking and inconsistencies in the transport sector for
many years and it is considered that no significant strides were made over the
period of the project. However the setting up of the Transport Authority to



- 36-
regulate all ground transport is a positive step along with the proposal to include
transport fares as one of the matters to be considered by the Proposed Fair
Trading Commission; and
v)    while the Ministry has undertaken a significant amount of training ,not enough
recognition has been accorded to the importance of human resources
development. Very little retraining has been done, and distribution of workers
tends to bear little relation to the work programme. The consequence is that even
though a Maintenance Management Section has been established, more effort is
directed towards producing information than towards analysing the information
for management purposes.
The main lesson leamed is that there is need for greater planning before implemention of
projects. It would have better to delay the project by one year in order to carry out the Road
Rationalisation Study before the Overlay components. A network system in the Maintenance
Management Section and Workshop should have been given priority and some strengthening -
perhaps more closely linked to the Management Information Section (M.I.S) should have been
pursued.
Evaluation of Bank's Performance
During the course of the project a number of missions were sent to the island. It is our
opinion that there were inconsistencies in the advice given to the Ministry's officials.
In fact, the views and attitude of the final mission in 1998 were almost diametrically
opposite to those of earlier missions and the impression conveyed was that the members of the
mission had been sent with a directive to close the project what ever the cost or consequence.
It is believed that the earlier missions recognised that the project had started too early,
and greater planning was needed. They therefore set out to help the Ministry to improve its
planning/design capabilities. The later missions also recognised the deficiencies but were not
particularly interested in assisting. (This could have been due to the fact the last missions did not
appear to be fully briefed).
Operational Phase
Transport Sector
In 1996, the Government approved the setting up of the Transport Authority. In
1998 the firm Nielson Consulting Ltd from Hong Kong completed a Study for the establishment
of a Public Transport Authority. The transport sector policy is outlined in Appendix I which
summarises the recommendations of the Nielson consultancy. These have been accepted in
principle.



-37-
Institutional Strenethenine/Training
The Government has centralised all training for public servants under its Training
Division, a department within the Prime Minister's Office which also has responsibility for
recruitment and appointrnents. Meetings have been held with all senior officers in the Ministry
and full training proposals have been approved for the year (See Appendix 2). The Ministry is
also preparing a Strategic Plan for 2000-2010 and it is expected that proposals for traiining and
institutional strengthening will be included in that Plan.
The Ministry has recognised the difficulty of recruiting local engineers and have
deliberately set out a policy of encouraging staff to study overseas to obtain qualifications in
engineering. To date 3 officers are at universities in England and the United States pursuing
graduate degrees and one officer is completing a Masters in Construction Management.
ORtions for Road Section
The Ministry has reorganised the Road Section creating 12 districts with a core
number of workers to carry out routine maintenance activities, and the maintenance management
system identified under the Technical Assistance programme (Road Maintenance and
Equipment Management Study) is being used. Each district has been allocated reasonable
labour, materials and equipment resources. Other nonrecurrent activities are been carried out by
other sections or the private sector.
The Ministry has established a Management Information Systems section to
coordinate its information technology works. The Head of the section has prepared proposals for
the full computerisation of the Ministry including the linking of the depots to Headquarters and
a network for the workshop. Funding is being sought for this project.
Alternative Maintenance Funds
The Government has abolished all levies which were in place aand considers that
all funding for maintenance should come from the consolidated fund. Hence there is no
alternative funding mechanism for maintenance works. However funding sources are being
investigated for overlay programmes, safety and road rehabilitation projects, and it is expected
that some projects using extemal resources will be started in the year 2000.
Use of Small Contractors
The Ministry has met with representatives of small contractors and has discussed
with them the possibility of their being involved in small contracts. In this respect,the present
Administration has outlined, in their Manifesto, their intention to help small contractors. The
Ministry is presently preparing a Cabinet paper which will set out recommendations on this
matter.
The small contractors have formed a group and it is expected that the Ministry
will set up a small unit to work with the contractors to assist them in preparing estimates, and



- 38-
bids, and to help them to understand specifications. Representation is expected to be made by
them to Government, as regards the establishment of some mechanism for obtaining equipment
and for providing some linkage to Government in order to obtain materials (asphalt, concrete)
expeditiously since the existing monopoly situation by the large companies places small
contractors at a severe disadvantage.
Environmental Standards
The Government has passed a Flood Prevention Act and a Tree Preservation Act,
and has canried out several studies related to land use and the environment. Consequently
Environmental Impact Studies are now required for all major projects . In order to ensure that
this Ministry has competent staff, two officers have been allowed to complete degrees in
Physical Planning and both officers now assist in relevant planning matters.
Attached at Appendix 3 is a Financial Statement to the end of March 31,1999. A
final audited statement is expected later in the year and will be submitted to the Bank at that
time.



-39
Appendix 1
1.    The Cabinet at its meeting of June 20' 1996 considered note (96)
606/MPT.41, and ageed, inter alia:
(a)   that a Public Transport Authority should be established within the
then Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing, to act as an
advisory body to the Minister with regard to the implementation of
the recommendations of the Public Transport Study of 1994
(b)   that the body should act initially for a period of one year
2.   Following the Cabinet's decision, an interim body was set up to lay the
groundwork for the establishment of the full scale Transport Authority. This body
has been in operation for the past two and half years. To assist the interim body in
the process of establishing the Transport Authority, the Division of Public Works
and Transport engaged the services of the firm Neilson Consulting Ltd. of Hong
Kong. The consultancy team undertook their task during the period March to June
1998.
Obiectives
3.    The objective of the Transport Study conducted by the team from Neilson
Consultancy Ltd. was to develop a comprehensive regulatory framework for the
operation of public transport, taking into account the various modes of public
transport and the anticipated future demand for transport services, as well as the
available resources, so that the Government of Barbados could deliver a high
quality, efficient and cost effective transport service to the general population
over the next ten years, In particular, the tasks of the consultancy team were:
(i)   to identify the role and responsibilities of the Public Transport
Authority(PTA)
(ii)  to develop the legalframework within which the PTA would operate
(iii)  to specify the organization structure and staffing of the PTA
(iv) to prepare an Action Plan for PTA
4     In approaching the tasks the team examined the problems of the current
public transport system. They made some observations regarding what the future
of the public transport industry in the country was likely to be, and they also made
comparisons regarding the various forns and functions of PTAs in several other
countries. The consultancy team concluded that the PTA in Barbados would be



- 40-
required to perform three major functions, and these were identified as:
(a) planning
(b) monitoring and regulation and
public relations.
PTA Responsibilities
5.    Arising out of the study the consultants recommended that the main
responsibilities of a PTA operating in Barbados should be:
(i)  to advise the Minister on all matters relating to surface transport
(ii)  to undertake planningfor thefuture needs ofpublic transport
(iii)  to promote the use ofpublic transport
(iv) to develop construction and use standards for public service
vehicles
(v)   to approve all routes, permits and licences
(vi)  to monitor and regulate the operations of the public transport
system
(vii)  to publish up to date information on public transport services
(viii) to work in close liaison with all public service vehicle operators
and interest groups
(ix)  to review and approve the Transport Board's Five Year Plans
(x)   to provide, develop, operate and maintain such terminals and
facilities in Barbados jfor public service vehicles
(xi)  to advise the Minister on fares andfare adjustments
(xii) to prepare and publish routes and schedules
(xiii) to maintain a public transport data-base
6.    In essence the PTA would be responsible for ensuring that the provision
of public transport services was comprehensive, and involved the widest possible
coverage of districts across the island. The PTA was also to ensure that the
services were safe, of good quality, reliable, operated with high frequency, and
catered to the vulnerable groups within the society.



- 41 -
Legislative Framework
7.    The consultants envisaged that the PTA would function independently as a
statutory agency, with a Board of Directors, reporting to the Minister responsible
for Transport. The consultants recormmended that in order for the PTA to function
effectively it would require certain powers, and that a new PTA Act should be
enacted to provide the agency with the necessary powers. In addition to the
enactment of new legislation, the consultants pointed out that it would be
necessary to modify certain other pieces of legislation which imnpact on the
operation of public transport. The main pieces of legislation which would require
amendment would be the Road Traffic Act (Cap 295), the Road Traffic
Regulations 1984 and the Transport Board Act (Cap 297)
8.    The consultants also expressed the view that the Board of the PTA should
comprise no less than five persons, appointed by the Minister, drawn from experts
in a variety of disciplines including public transport, law, finance, engineering,
administration, education and labour relations. (The Board of the interim body
now has seven members appointed by the Minister) The ex-officio Board
members should include the Chief Technical Officer and Permanent Secretary in
the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, as well as the Commissioner of
Police.
9.     In addition to the Board, the consultancy team also recommended that
there should be a Transport Advisory Committee appointed by the Minister,
whose membership should include representatives from the Transport Board and
the privately owned public service vehicle operators. The intention behind the
establishment of this advisory comnmittee would be to provide a useful forum for
consultation between the Board and the transport operators on matters of policy,
plans and procedures.
Staffing
10.    To undertake the full operations of the PTA, the consultants
recommended that there should be a staff complement of 35 persons, headed by a
Transport Director(Chief Executive Officer). He would be assisted by three (3)
Assistant Directors - one each for Planning, Operations and Administration. Other
members would include one(l) Public Relations Manager, one (1) Transport
Planner, one(l)Transport Officer, one (1) Terminals Manager, one (1) Survey
Supervisor, eight (8) Surveyors, one (1) Termiinal Supervisor, one(l) Supervisor
and four (4) Transport Inspectors, four (4) Secretaries, one (1) Security Officer,
one (1) Accountant, one (I) Personnel Officer, three (3) Clerical
Officers(Clerk/Typists), one (1) Messenger, and one (1) Receptionist.
I1.   It should be noted that in the proposed organizational structure, the PTA
would have three distinct divisions - Planning, Operations and Administration..
The Assistant Director Planning would be responsible for the planning
programmes of the PTA. In this arrangement that officer would help prepare the
five year route development programme. The Assistant Director(Operations)



- 42 -
would be responsible for the operation of the terninals as well as enforcement
activities, whereas the Assistant Director(Administration) would be taking on
responsibility for public relations, personnel matters, accounts and general office
management.
12.   Given the level of technical (professional) expertise required in the area
of transport planning, and bearing in mind the absence of persons in the local job
market with the requisite skills needed for the establishment of the kind of
regulatory framework necessary for the effective functioning of this new agency
at outset of its operations, the consultants have recommended that consideration
be given to the recruitment of suitable persons from overseas sources to fill
certain key positions at the inauguration of the Authority. Other personnel may
be recruited from within the local Public Service. To help the local recruits
develop the appropriate skills the consultants have recommended that the PTA
provide the employees with training opportunities in the right areas. They have
also provided useful information on training courses at the post graduate level in
the area of transport planning and transport economics.
Financing Arrangements
13.  It has been estimated that the cost of establishing the P.T.A. would be in
the vicinity of $2.5 million taking into consideration the need for accommodation,
equipment, plant, furniture, etc.  The annual operating costs have been put at
between $1.5 and $2.0 million. The consultants have pointed out that the PTA
could be financed out of the revenues collected from the annual renewal permit
fees and annual taxes levied on all public service vehicles. Based on available
data, these amount to a figure of approximately $4.0 million per year. In this
regard there would be a surplus if there is no reduction in the current rates
charged on the public service vehicles.
14.    It should be noted that it is proposed that the PTA should be taking over
some of the functions currently being undertaken by the Licensing Authority with
regard to the regulation of the public service vehicles. However, it is being
proposed that the Licensing Authority will continue the process of collecting the
fees on behalf of the PTA, but maintaining a separate account for the purpose.
.The financing of the PTA other than through transfers from the Treasury will
have to be addressed in a separate paper for the consideration of the Cabinet.
Action Plan
15.      The consultancy team  prepared a three year action plan for the PTA
which would take it to the end of the year 2001. They proposed that by the end
of the year 1998 the necessary legislation would have been enacted and the senior
personnel appointed to the respective positions. The plan put forward envisaged
the following:



- 43 -
By the end of 1999
(i)   completion of the first comprehensive survey of public transport
ridership
(ii)  establishment of a policy framework for the development of all
three existing modes of transport
(iii)  preparation of guideline for minimum service provision
(iv)  completion of the first cycle of the 5 year planning process
(v)  implementation of at least one Minibus or Route Taxi cooperative
on a trial basis
(vi)  development of a cost model for Minibuses, Route Taxis and
Transport Board buses
(vii)  completion of the appraisal of the implications of various fare
structures
(viii) completion of the new minimum standards for Route Taxis
Bv the end of 2000
(i)   completion of the second ridership survey
(ii)  preparation of proposals for a comprehensive approach on
concession fares
(iii)  completion of the second cycle of the 5 year planning process
(iv)  conversion of 50%  individual Minibus permits to concessions
(v)   completion of market research to identify public expectations for
quality of.future public transport
(vi)  establishment of regular reporting procedures for public transport
statistics
(viii) completion of the first comprehensive public transport guide for
Barbados
Bm the end of 2001
(i)   completion of the third comprehensive ridership survey
(ii)  implementation of a comprehensive approach to concession fares
(iii) completion of the third cycle of the 5year planning process



- 44-
(iv) establishment of a foundation for sustainable public transport
development
(v)   conversion of all individual Minibus and Route Taxi permits to
concessions
(vi)  participation in public debate on the problems of congestion and
pollution caused by increased car usage and the solution offered
by public transport (participation in public debate promoting
public transport in preference to private car usage)
Review bv ITA Board
16.    The Board members of the interim body reviewed the report submitted
by the consultants, and expressed their satisfaction with the various
recommendation put forward. They were of the view that the report outlined a
useful strategy and provided specific steps that could be taken to ensure the
successful establishment of the Public Transport Authority in Barbados.  The
members of the Board recognized however, that implementation may have to be
done on a phased basis. It should be noted that the recommendations were also
presented to the former Minister by the consultant at the conclusion of the study,
and he indicated that he had no particular difficulty with the recommendations.



- 45-
APPENDIX 2
PROPOSED TRAINING PROGRAMME 1999/2000
(1)   IRF/ITE/World Bank Conference on
Urban Traffic Congestion Washington D.C
(DCTO.DS) (Tech. Traff) Aug/Sept '99
(Conferences)                                  15 000.00
(2)   International Procurement - International Law
Insttute - Sept 13 - Oct. 8 (2 persons)        42 000.00
(3)   Intemational Law Institute
Sept. 13-Oct 8 '99
Principal Crown Counsel                       21 000.00
(4)   Vehicle Examiners - Taining                             30 O00.00(Est)
:L,.c-  0o0
(5)   Auditing - Audit Staff                                     (ESL)
(6)   Training in Georgia                                     26 500.00
Total  159,500.00



- 46 -
LOCAL TRAINING
1.   Training in SupeMsory Management
Technician 11, Superuisors Secton Leaders  16 000.00
Z    Senior Technicians
Junior Engineers (BIMAP)                          8 000.00
3.   Training Auto C4D
30 Officers                                 5 000.00
4    Training for Draughtsmen                           5 000.00
5.   Accounts Staff
New                                         6 000.00
6.   Workshop
Mechanic 6- SJ.P.P                          3 000.00
7.   Building
Basic Masonry
Carpentry
Steel Bending
Joinery
Plumbing                                3 000.00
*8. Human Resources Staff
Laws
General Orders, etc.
Counseling                                  5 000.00
9.   Administrative Personnel
Report Writing
Interpersonal Skldls
Project Planning
Strategic Planning                          6 000.00
10.   Licensing
Testing Officers
Transport Inspectors/Section Leaders
Road Traffic Act.
Work Ethics                                 3 000.00
Totul       6000.00



- 47-
11.   Operators                                        5 000.00
Use of Road
Defensive DrNing
12   Shot I day Seminars for Junior Staff              6 000.00
i.e. Clerical Officers
Telephone Operators
StenolTypist
Housekeeping Staff
General Workers
Ucensing
13.   Top Management Personnel 2 day                   5 000.00
Human Resources Management (Strategic Planning)
Specat emphasis on Human Resource Development
(Re-focusing)
14.   Computer Training                                5 000.00
15.   Computer Training Associate Degree               1 200.00
Statstcal Assistant
16.   Computer Training                                4 000.00
17.   Thermo Plastic Training                          2 000.00
18.   Directorial Signs, etc.                          4 000.00
19.  P. Penegan                                        2 000.00
20.  ACUPACC                                           2 000.00
Sub-Total   36 200.00
Total      96 200.00



- 48-
Training for the Electrical Enineering Department
TOTAL
BDS$
1.   Air-conditoning Tech. IV Service Course     7478.00
2.   H&er Natonal Diploma
(TEectr1 Engineering)                     26 630.00
3.   Seminar on North American Electric Codes
8 786.65 per person
61 506.55 @ 7 persons
TOTAL BDS$95 614.55
Existing Overseas Training
BDS $
1.  JohnJordan                              25 000.00
2.   Dave Thome                             38 000.00
3.   Ryan Lorde                              6 000.00
69 000.00



I^ i'/ .- A7  ) ;
(ORO LOAN 3493 BAR SECONO ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHAs4IIATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION AND PROGRESS MONITORING REPORTISCHEDULE AS AT MARCH 31. 199
BARBADOS DOLLARS (0DS 6)
PROGI.WVROJECr CONONEN         CoT  DI        AWT. Of        ESTIMATED          TOTAL              mRD               GOB          REf       HT       ID         REMBNT          REafNT              OFF. BETWEEN  REWUENT
%      CONTRACT          IBRD,         EXPENDI0TUE       EXPENDITURE       EXPENDITURE      REOUAESTED        COST          NOT YET        RECfIVED     WRD COUMMENT    OISTANIBNG
FUNDING          TODATE            TO DATE           TODATE          FROM ORD       OVERRUNS    REOUESTED          TO DATE        AND PAYMIENT
1.CML WORKS
A. REHABIITATION
- HIGHWAY 6: SEARLES - SIX RDS      5  55%        9.sII550.70    5.038,852.89      7,446,833.21      4,095,758.28      3,351,01493     4.095,758.28                                 4.096,75F.28        943,094.6
SUBTOTAL                                          9, 61.550.10    5,038,852.89      1,446,833.21       4,095,758.28     3,351,074.93    4.095.758.28                                 4.095.758.28        943,094.61
8. SAFETY PROGRAM
-RENDEZVOUSIHWY 7                    1  55%         451,8800        798,538.40      1,729,833.00        951,40815         778,424.85      897.254.05     54,15410                      897,254.05        -98,715.65
CODRINGTONICAVE HILL                I  55%        2,680.116.50    1,474,064.08     3,607,611.60        1.984,186.38     1.623.425.22    1.964.185.31         1.07                    1,964,185.31       5S0.121.23
SUBTOTDA                                          4,132.004.50    2,272,602.48      5,337,444 60       2.935,594.53     2,401,850.07    2.881.439.36     54,1551 7                    2.861.439 36       608,636.88
ORIOGES AND CUL\VERTS
-IREASURE BEACH & BUCCANER BAY    I  55%            235,728.00      129,650.40        195.378.00        107,457.90         87,920.10      107,457.90                                   107,457.90         22.92.50
FARM ROAD &HOTHERSAL TURNING    I  55%             280.79200       i54,435.60       201,257 00         113,099.35         93,265.65      113,991.35                                   113,991.35         40,444.25
SUBTOTAL                                           516,520.00      284,08600         402,635.00         221,449.25        181,185.75     221,449.25                                    221,449.25         62.636.75
RM1BC PILO1. 
ROUTINE MAINT BY CONTRACT           I  55%        1,376,330.00     756,981.50       1,161.817.72        638,999.75        522,811.97     638,999.75                                    638,999.15        117,981.15
TOTAL CATEGORY I           .                     15.186,405.2     8,352,522.87     14,348,730.53       7,891.801.81     6,456,928.72    7,837.646.64     54,155. l7                  7.837,646.64        514,876.23
9VERLAY_PROGR9W                                   I
PACKAGE 'A                          2  80%        7,498,578.0     5,996,862.40     9,011,333.04       7,209,0s6.43      ,602,266.61     6.496,457.60    710,60881                    6.496,457.60       .499.595.20
PACKAGE 'B'                         2  80%       11,693,158.04   9.354.526.43      11,693.156.04      9.354.526.43      2,338,631.61   9.354.526.43                                  9,354,526.43
PACKAGE'B'                         2  50%          186,283.81       93,141.91      3,525,01306         350,262 58      3,174,750.48      350,262.58                                   350,262.58        -257.120.67
TOTAL PACKAGE 'Bl                                I1,879.441.85   9,447,668 34      i5,216,7t.I0       9.704,789.01      5,513,382.09    9.704,789.01                                 9,704,78901        .257.120.67
TOTAL CATEGORY 2                                 19,378.019.85    15.446,530 74    24,229,504 14      16,913.855.44     7.315,648.70    16,203,24661    710.608.83                  16.203,24661        -756,715 87
TOTAL CIM  WORKS                                 34 564.425      23.799,053.61     36 578,234.67      24,s05,657.25    13,772,577.42    24.040,93.25    764,764.00                  24.040,893.25       .241.839.641
IIAS l,,p AM I!_                                .  .4.  .                         .7                                 37.7.



IORD LOAN 3493 BAR SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
UMEMENTATION AND PROGRESS MONITORING REPORTSCHEDEULE AS AT MARCH 31. 999
BARBADOS DOLLARS (BDS $)
PROGRAMIPROJECT COMPONENT    CAT  DISB        AMN. OF       ESriAATED         TOTAL              IBRD              GOB          REIMB'MENT        IBRD        REWNME NT    REWWMENT         0IFF. BETWEEN     REM14ENT
%      CONTRACT         IBRD          EXPENDIURE        EXPENDITURE       EXPENDITURE      REQUESTED         COST         NOT YET       RECEIVED    IORD COMITTMENT    WSTANDWG
FUNDING         TO DATE           TO DATE           TO DATE         FROM ERD      OVER-RUNS    REQUESTED         TO DATE       AND PAYMENT
I 1. EQUIPMENT
* NEW EQUIPMENT                    3  100%                       4,960,724,63      4,960,724.63      4,960,724.63                     4.960,724.63                                4,960,724.63
- SPARE PARTS                       3    90%                      633,992.42        704,436.02         633,992.42        70,443.60     633,992.42                                   633,992.42
-BUSFAREBOXES                       3  100%                        176,180.00 o6,180.00                176,180.00                       176,180.00                                  176,180.00
lOTAL CATEGORY 3                                                 5,770.897.05      6,841,340.65      5.770,897.05        70,443.60    5,770,891.05                                5,770,897 05
I11. INSliTUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
- HWAY MAINT MANGEMENT CONSULT   5  100%           115,053.00      115053.00        109,220.00         109,220.00                      109.220.00                                   109,220.00         5,833.00
-RD N'WORK RETIJALIZATION STUDY  5  100%           527,300.00     527,300.00        668,112.30        645,208.00         22,904.30     645,208.00                                  645,208.00       -117,908.00
- IFAS COMPUTERIZATION              5  1O0%         88,500.00      88,50.oo          58,238.00          58,238.00                       58,238.00                                   58,238.00         30,262.00
-RD MAINT & EQUIP MANGNT STUDY    5  100%         1.118.206.00   1.118,206.00      1,186,254.39      1,186,254.39                     1,093,282.00     92,972.39                  1,093,282.00        24,924.00
- COMPUTERIZATION STUDY(CWets  5  100%                              62,599.00        52,599.00          52,599.00                       52,599.00                                   52,5990.
- COMPUTERIZATION STUDY             5  100%        219.000.00      219,000.00       330,990.04         218,726.25       112,263.79     218,726.25                                  218,726.25            273.75
TOTAL CATEGORY 5                                  2,066,059.00   2,120,658.00      2,405,413.73      2,270,245.64       135,168.09    2,177,273.25     92.972,39                  2,177,273.25       -56,615.25
TING
* TRAINING LOCAL MTW               6   50%                           4,526.00        19,051.54          4,526.00         14,525.54       4,526.00                                    4,526.00
-TRANING FOREIGN MTW               6  100%                         775,911.48       802,076.94         775,911.48        26,165.46     775,911.48                                  775,911.48
TOTAL CATEGORY 6                                                   780.437.48       821,128,48         780,437.48        40,691.00     780,437.48                                  780,437.48
IOTAL                                           36,632,484.0    32,471,04-614{   47,646,117.53      33,62.237.4      14,018.880.11    32,769,501.03  857,736.39                 32,769,501.03       .298,454.891
IFAS 7:09 AM 1999-07-0                                                                                    2



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
BARBADOS - Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
(Loan No. 3493-BAR)
WORLD BANK COMPLETION MISSION
December 14-18, 1998
1.    A World Bank mission comprised of Messrs. Bernard Becq and Roni Adiv visited
Barbados to conduct a completion mission of the Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Project (SRMP), and prepare the Implementation Completion Report-ICR of the project. The
mission met with officials from the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing (MPT),
the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Barbados Transport Board (BTB), the Transport Authority
(TA), Inter American Development Bank (IDB), and Coopers & Lybrand. Field visits were
made to the work sites of the Highway 6 Searles to Six Roads and Overlay Package B contracts.
This Aide Memoire summarizes the findings of the mission and assessment of the project. The
Bank will confirm these upon the return of the mission to Headquarters. The mission would like
to express its gratitude to the Government of Barbados (GOB) and its agencies for their
cooperation and assistance during the mission's stay. Annex 1 lists the names of officials met
during the mission. Annex 2 is a draft plan of operation for the project after its closing.
2.    The mission assessed the degree of achievement of project objectives, progress with
project implementation, the outcome of each component, overall management of the project, the
effectiveness of the project design, and the prospects for the project's sustainability, and reviewed
project accounts. The mission discussed with Government its assessment of the project
performance during its design and implementation, and the content of a plan for the sector future
operations. It also provided advice and support to Government in preparing its own contribution
to the ICR.
Overall Assessment
3.    The overarching objectives to assist the Borrower in: (a) preserving the capital base of its
road infrastructure; (b) improving road maintenance planning practices; (c) reducing investment
costs related to its road network; (d) improving road safety; and (e) transferring the provision of
passenger transport services in urban areas to the private sector, are not fully met. In particular,
objectives b, c and e have been assessed by the mission as not really met, and achievements with
regard to items a and d somewhat limited. The mission's overall assessment is that the project is
not satisfactory with regard to development objectives. This is mainly due to the lack of



- 52 -
endorsement of numerous recommendations made in studies, and lack of implementation of
significant institutional strengthening and policy reforms, despite some training and progress in
accounting through computerization, and the fact that MPT managed to carry out a number of
road contracts with some degree of efficiency. Little sustainability is likely to obtain in MPT as
alternative staffing and manpower management measures, and significant and sustainable
improvements to road maintenance operations have not been tried or really considered. The
levels of funding of maintenance have not been increased as per the needs to maintain the
network in good or fair condition, and no alternative mechanisms to alleviate this constraint,
such as a Road Fund, have been analyzed in details. With regard to transport, the objectives of
restructuring BTB and liberalizing the sector have clearly not been met, and results have fallen
short of any major achievements. This is largely highlighted by a very mixed final assessment of
the status of legal covenants, in particular those regarding institutional and policy reforms which
are mostly not complied with, or can only be considered partially complied with (see below).
4.    The mission assessment is that implementation has been marginally satisfactory, mostly
due to the number of good quality road contracts (safety program, bridges and culverts, and
overlay program in part) carried out, progress in MPT computerization and strengthening of its
financial sections, and relative success of the equipment and training components. However,
physical components have been slow to implement, a number of components were eventually
dropped from the project, and the last two major contracts have not been completed in time. The
equipment component has been marginally satisfactory with regard to its stated objectives
(procurement of items, but lack of proactiveness with regard to recommendations of the Road
Maintenance and Equipment Management study). The training component; has succeeded in
training a large number of MPT staff although courses do not always appear to have followed a
clear plan. Implementation of the project has, however, suffered many setbacks, in particular at
its inception, and progress has been constantly hampered with a slow procurement process and
delays in works completion. Most studies have been completed, but few recommendations have
been adopted or implemented in a timely manner. Finally, the results of the pilot Routine
Maintenance by Contract-RMBC component have been disappointing. With regard to transport,
little seems to have been achieved.
5.    Transport: The objective of transferring the provision of passenger transport services to
the private sector was previously reduced to urban areas following an amendment to the Loan
Agreement. Although the provision of passenger transport services in urban areas is now mainly
being provided by private operators, "rural" areas are only served by BTB with hidden subsidies
and growing operational losses. The existing transport policy appears ad-hoc, the Government-
fixed island-wide flat fare for bus routes is still effective, and Government control on regulations
and operations de facto strengthened by the new Public Transport Authority which falls short of
being an autonomous licensing authority.
6.    Roads: Achievements are real in terms of physical works despite the many delays which
kept occurring throughout the project life. The pilot RMBC program has not reached its
objectives due to improper packaging which resulted in contracts being awarded to large
contractors. The Road Maintenance and Equipment Management study highlighted a number of
constraints to the establishment of small contractors, but did not provide a careful analysis of



- 53 -
conditions for attracting small contractors to the maintenance business, nor did the project design
allow for strengthening those contractors. Constraints faced by small contractors have not yet
been alleviated so that they be in a position to compete and/or conduct efficiently maintenance
operations. The Road Network Rationalization study and the parallel effort to develop a road
management system provided a one-time effort to program priorities for maintenance, but are not
likely to result in the sustainable improvement of planning and programming operations as MPT
did not organize its services to operate the system on a permanent basis. A clear strategy, with
maintenance options, still needs to be elaborated to define the most appropriate modes to conduct
operations for each road and each specific maintenance task, and organization to manage roads.
This is key as maintenance costs are fairly high by all accounts. In addition, routine maintenance
is using most available maintenance resources, while Government-financed periodic maintenance
is conducted on a very small portion of the network annually at a level not consistent with
requirements to preserve the network, which bears a high risk of high rehabilitation costs in the
future.
Covenants
7.    The status of covenants with detailed comments is summarized below:
Schedule 5.1 and Section 3.04 (d) - Covenant 1: Partially complied with. Budgets have regularly
increased from 92 to this 98/99 FY from US$ 6.6 to 10 million. They are, however, insufficient
to cover needed periodic maintenance, with high unit costs (not counting equipment use and
depreciation) largely resulting from rather expensive force account operations.
Schedule 5.2 - Covenant 2: Complied with. The Planning Unit was strengthened and
incorporated into the Technical Department of the Ministry of Public Works, Housing and
Transport (based on the recommendations of the National Transport Plan Final Report, it should
have been into a Transport Planning Secretariat of the Ministry's).
Schedule 5.3 - Covenant 3: Partially Complied with. The lists of roads for Overlays in FY 97/98
and FY 98/99 have been prepared and submitted to the Bank. However, overlays are used as
periodic maintenance by force account, which may not be cost effective as compared to other
resealing techniques, and no economic analysis seems to have been conducted for the latest
priority setting.
Schedule 5.4 (a) - Covenant 4: Partially complied with. The Ministry has not proceeded with
endorsing alternative options to enhancing the limited private sector capacity to undertake
maintenance by contract. MPT did not prepare a time-bound plan of action to develop/help create
small contractors and/or strengthen the capacity of those already existing in terms of business
and site management, with specific actions regarding financial capacity, adapted bidding
procedures, and access to equipment.
Schedule 5.4 (b) - Covenant 5: Not complied with. Plan not submitted cannot be implemented.



- .54 -
Schedule 5.5 (a) - Covenant 6: Complied with. The final report of the Road Maintenance and
Equipment Management Study has been finalized by the firm Wilbur Smith Associates.
Schedule 5.5 (b) - Covenant 7: Partially complied with. No recommendation with regard to
establishing proper accounting procedures ir. the Workshop and MPT operational units and force
account operations to obtain a better picture of the true maintenance costs by better accounting
for equipment operating costs and depreciation. The road maintenance system has not been
really reorganized as a result of the study.
Schedule 5.6 (a)- Covenant 8: Complied with. The firm N. D. Lea completed the Road Network
Rationalization study-RNR. The consultants' recommendations were considered in preparing the
1995/96 maintenance program. Maintenance plans are prepared but are not sufficient to cover
needed periodic maintenance. Maintenance planning was improved, but not in a sustainable
manner as the maintenance management system has not been operated for two years due to
broken down Bump Integrators-BIs and a lack of organization at the territorial level to conduct
surveys. No further development seems to have occurred in terns of network management.
Schedule 5.6 (b) - Covenant 9: Not complied with. No action plan to improve network
management was submitted.
Schedule 5.6 (c) - Covenant 10: Not complied with. Plan not submitted cannot be implemented.
Schedule 5.7 (a) - Covenant 11: Complied with. Study completed by Mr. Neria.
Computerization ongoing, and procurement of computers partly done.
Schedule 5.7 (b) - Covenant 12: Partially complied with. Development completed and system
installed. MPT staff have been trained in the use of the system. Remaining difficulties to obtain
overall budget and detailed Project accounts. Accounts until recently not properly and
exhaustively managed, which resulted in some difficulty to reconcile accounts with disbursement
figures for a number of components/contracts.
Schedule 5.8 - Covenant 13: Partially complied with: Done for early Bank-financed works.
Latest overlay contract change in the scope of works not well documented, although revised
engineering design drawings have been completed lately, redefining the scope.
Schedule 5.9 - Covenant 14: Partially complied with. Productivity standards set forth to achieve
road maintenance plans have been somewhat reached (38 standards have been updated and
approved).
Section 2.02 (b) - Covenant 15: Partially complied with. SA operated on a small scale.
Section 3.01 (b) (i) - Covenant 16: Complied with. An Investment Plan was prepared and agreed
as a condition of the extension of the Closing Date. No update was submitted thereafter.



- 55 -
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) - Covenant 17: Not complied with: Counterpart funds were made available
as follows (US$ million): 92/93: n.a; 93/94: 0.685; 94/95: 0.416; 95/96: 1.951; 96/97: 1.88;
97/98: 2.00; 98/99: 2.10. All figures are below targets, and the latest figure is still lower than the
US$ 2.4 million originally earmarked for the original latest implementation 96/97 FY, and
despite the revised loan amount and GOB counterpart funding levels.
Section 3.01 (b) (iii) - Covenant 18: Partially complied with. Studies completed and some
training took place, but no significant institutional strengthening is evident as the MPT structure
remains the same with a strong focus on force account operations and central control/monitoring,
and no major policy reforms were adopted as a result of said studies.
Section 3.02 - Covenant 19: Complied with. Reports are regularly submitted. Detailed reports
still expected for previous FY. No proposals for adjustment were submitted recently.
Section 3.03 - Covenant 20: Complied with. MTR held and project slightly restructured.
Transport policy remains problematic, and road operations are still centrally monitored and
managed without sufficient funds for all needed maintenance works.
Section 3.04 (a) - Covenant 21: Partially complied with. Latest rolling maintenance plan for next
three FYs not submitted. Environmental standards do not seem to be taken into account in a
formalized way.
Section 3.04 (b) - Covenant 22: Partially complied with. Adequate funds have been allocated to
routine maintenance. However, the maintenance plan does not include enough resources for
periodic maintenance.
Section 3.04 (c) - Covenant 23: Complied with. Latest plan for next FY submitted.
Section 3.04 (e) - Covenant 25: Complied with. Funds allocated to road maintenance from 92/93
to present (US$ million): 92/93: 2.5; 93/94: 2.5; 94/95: 2.5; 95/96: 2.92; 96/97: 3.8; 97/98: 3.8,
and 98/99: 4.03. These figures show that the covenant has been complied with for the past three
FYs.
Section 3.05 (a) - Covenant 26: Partially complied with. The Ministry endeavors to maintain the
structure as it is, but is still struggling with recruiting and retaining adequate staff. To monitor
the project physical progress, a consultant supervision engineer and a consultant quantity
surveyor have been recruited.
Section 3.05 (b) - Covenant 27: Not rated. No proposed changes made.
Section 3.05 (c) - Covenant 28: Complied with. Function carried out by Chief Planning Officer
of MPT.
Section 3.07: Covenants 29 and 30 deleted as related to privatization of Transport Board deleted
when project extended. However, actions agreed at the MTR have not been complied with



- 56-
(program for the restructuring of BTB, initially as a commercialized company operating subject
to the normal company law of the land, and in a form designed for subsequent privatization in
appropriately sized units; establishment, by end March 1997, of a new competitively based
licensing system, including the legislative or administrative actions necessary to establish an
independent Transport Licensing Authority, together with transition arrangements from the
present permit system to the new system and the equalization of all fiscal, fee and quality
regulation arrangements as between private and public sector operators).
Section 3.08 (a) - Covenant 31: Complied with. Transport Levy Act abolished in 1993.
Section 3.08 (b) - Covenant 32: Not complied with. A draft Quarries Act has been produced. It
is still awaiting presentation to Parliament.
Section 3.09 (a) - Covenant 33: Not complied with. Employment at MPT has reached 1,091 (a
figure well above the agreed 800 threshold), and there is concern that regularization of casual
laborers and operators as civil servants is being considered.
Section 3.09 (b) - Covenant 34: Complied with. GOB carries out about 20 km per year of overlay
as periodic maintenance. The Bank-financed overlay program cannot be considered here as it
mainly consists of rehabilitation works. In addition, the GOB-financed program does not cover
all needs despite its being fairly expensive, which suggests that contracting out such works could
be cost-effective.
Section 3.10 - Covenant 35: Not complied with. The restructuring of BTB to make it a
commercial entity prior to its privatization is not progressing. The agreement to appoint an
independent Transport Licensing Authority-ITLA is gradually being amended to create a Public
Transport authority to serve as a planning/programming/route allocation/monitoring unit for
GOB.
Section 3.11 - Covenant 36: Partially complied with. Project implementation plan delayed (inter
alia major contracts not completed by closing date), and maintenance program carried out as per
minimum requirements.
Section 4.01 (a) - Covenant 37: Complied with: Accounts mostly appropriately kept now, but no
detailed records of early years can be found.
Section 4.01 (b) - Covenant 38: Complied with: MPT has met audit requirements up to the
period FY97/98, and latest FY97/98 report submitted in time.
Clause 1.01 (m) - Covenant 39: Not complied with anymore. BTB deficit has gone back over the
US$ 2 million threshold since 1995/1996.
Section 3.01 (a) - Covenant 40: Partially complied with. Funds and environmental standards not
up to expectations.



- 57-
Project Design
8.    Over-optimism may have resulted during appraisal in an unrealistic completion schedule.
In addition, original delays occurred due to the difficulty of setting priorities for the civil works
prograrn as no comprehensive study was carried out early on. The mission assessment is that the
project design was faulty on two other grounds: (i) the project did not focus on policy and
institutional restructuring issues early on, and included only studies and too few actions and
plans to address constraints with funding and capacity. As a matter of fact, the adoption of the
recommendations of the only two major studies (Road Network Rationalization, and
Maintenance and Equipment Management) were not sufficient to create any significant changes
in the way MPT operates; and (ii) the project had two conflicting objectives with the
strengthening of the Workshop operations through the procurement of additional equipment, and
hence the strengthening of the force account operations, and the pilot maintenance by contract
component. In addition, the latter was not properly thought through as it did not provide for the
conditions to experiment a different system in that it did not provide any support to local
contractors --those likely to be interested in routine maintenance operations.
Project implementation and supervision
9.    The Project, launched in October 1992, was running close to two years behind schedule,
largely due to poor planning and programming of road activities. The insufficiency of
counterpart funds seems to be related to the incorporation of road projects in the PSIP. This may
have been affected on one hand by the lack of projects ready to go in MPT, and, on the other
hand, the difficulty for MPT to launch the procurement process without definite budgeting.
Similar issues with budgeting, resource allocation, and planning and preparing for projects have
been somewhat experienced throughout project implementation, even after the 21 months
extension of the project closing date, due to the time taken to address the issue of adequate
design for civil works --in particular the overlay program. This raises issues with the adequacy of
the restructuring of the project during the MTR. The procurement process has been slow if not
unpredictable, may be because of over-zealous or inappropriate implementation of national
procurement procedures. In addition, progress is still hampered by problems of coordination of
relocation of utilities on the last two major contracts (rehabilitation of Highway 6, and Overlay
Package B). Supervision from Government and the Bank may also be at fault in that consulting
engineers were recruited late in the process, changes in the scope of works were not discussed,
contracts supervision reports were mostly simplistic and not always submitted regularly and in
time, and the Bank seems to have failed to advise in a timely manner or raise issues.
Other Financiers
10.   Although IDB shows as a co-financier in the SAR, IDB is only financing one loan in the
road sector, the Bridgetown Road Safety Improvement Project (Loan 755-OC), approved in
November 1994 for an amount of US$18.5 million (total project amount of US$26 million).
Current disbursements to-date amount to US$0.5 million to reimburse the project preparation
advance, allegedly a slow pace of implementation. Poor implementation performance is mainly
attributed to: (a) weak and non adequate overall organization of the Ministry of Public Works;



- 58-
(b) conservative management and well-rooted position as to the role of the ministry being a
direct implementing agency for civil/road works. While some individuals are well qualified,
overall capacity of MPT is limited. The low salary scale of the public administration does not
provide enough incentives to attract and retain properly-qualified professionals; (c) lack of
specifically dedicated Project Implementation Unit, which results in project implementation
operations being subjected to all cumbersome and time-consuming administrative procedures; (d)
lack of coordination between the Ministry of Finance and MPT (Finance blaming MPT for
overspending vis a vis budget allocations or requesting prior work plans, and MPT requesting
prior budget allocation to tailor commensurate work programs). CDB works were carried out as
planned on Highway 2A. The mission indicated that it will submit copies of this Aide Memoire
and of the ICR to the CDB and the IDB Resident Mission in Barbados.
Status of ongoing components
Transport
11.   Public TransportAuthority - The agreement to create an Independent Transport
Licensing Authority (ITLA), with a mandate to act within the existing law to deal with requests
and needs for reallocation of existing capacity between routes and to grant permissions to
provide new routes and services where appropriate, has been gradually amended into the
establishment of a Public Transport Authority (PTA) serving as a planning/route
allocation/monitoring unit for Government, who will thus retain its fare-setting prerogatives. The
Cabinet had approved the establishment of PTA on June 20, 1996, starting with an appointment
of an Interim Transport Authority (ITA) within the Ministry of Public Works. The purpose of
the ITA was to advise the Minister and to lay the ground work for the establishment of the
permanent PTA. However, no permanent authority has been established yet, and the ITA has
been operating as an interim body for almost 30 months. The ITA Secretary estimated that the
legislation for the establishment of the permanent Authority should be ready about February
1999--almost three years since the Cabinet approval.
12.   For most of its duration, the ITA board included four members, dominated the Ministry
of Works: a Chairman, Certified Accountant from the private sector, plus three members from
the Ministry of Works - the Permanent Secretary, the Chief Technical officer, and the Chief
Licensing Officer of the Barbados Licensing Authority. In August 1998, on the recommendation
of the Minister, the membership of the ITA was increased to seven members, including three
more members from the private sector (A lawyer, legal assistant and a financial director). The
ITA has been assisted by a small Planning Secretariat comprising of a single Transport Planner
and two clerks. The proposed TA is expected employ 10 professional staff for a tentative budget
of Bd$ 2.0 million.
13.   Following the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review by the Bank, the ITA retained
the consultancy of Neilson Consulting Ltd., which prepared the report "Technical Assistance to
Establish The Barbados Public Transport Authority," dated July, 1998. The report was accepted
by the ITA Board and has been forwarded to the Cabinet for Approval. However, as of now
none of the Report's recommendations have been implemented. The Neilson's report follows



- 59-
two other recent reports: "The Barbados Public Transport Study (BPTS), 1994," and National
Transport Plan (NTP), 1996, which called for the establishment of the Transport Authority. The
mission has confirmed that the services of the Neilson Consulting Ltd. would not be eligible for
funding under the project.
14.   Nevertheless, no action have been taken yet with regard to the: (a) rationalization of the
tariffs through staged tariffs rather than flat tariffs; (b) the restructuring of Barbados Transport
Board (TB), initially as a commercialized company operating subject to the normal company law
of the land, and in a form designed for subsequent privatization in appropriately sized units; and
(c) the establishment of a new competitively based licensing system, including the legislative or
administrative actions necessary to establish the ITLA, together with transition arrangements
from the present permit system to a new system, and the equalization of all fiscal, fee and quality
regulation arrangements as between private and public sector operators.
15.   Barbados Transport Board (BTB) - As indicated in the Aide Memoire of May 1998, the
provision of passenger transport to the private sector was previously reduced to urban areas
following an amendment to the Loan agreement. This amendment reflects the market reality that
large portion of high demand routes in Metropolitan Bridgetown have already been captured by
the private operators, and that BTB is the only entity which provides transport services--by
Government decree-- to rural areas, largely in the northern part of the island. Given the fixed
fare of Bd$ 1.5, regardless of distance throughout the island, and the low demand in rural routes,
the private operators avoid these routes, and the BTB has to retain the rural services, which are a
financial burden. The general inefficiency of the BTB (compared to the private operators),
combined with the loosing services to rural areas, results in continuous need for Government
operational subsidies. The level of subsidy is not well established and is left to Government
discretion. During 1994-1996 it was about Bd$ 1.0 million per annum. Nevertheless, the
subsidy is insufficient to cover all operational loses. Thus, the BTB avoids payment, beyond the
sheer necessities, such as fuel, insurance and salaries. In particularly it avoided paying to the
retirement fund, about Bd$ 25 million in 1997 and Bd$ 10 million in 1998.
16.  In spite of its inefficiency and great operational loses, the BTB purchased last year 100
new buses (80 large and 20 mini-buses), through a commercial loan, guaranteed by the GOB. At
an estimated average cost of US$ 120,000-150,000 per bus, this implies a capital investment of
about US$ 12-15 million, which eventually will be paid by the GOB (as the fare is insufficient to
even cover operational costs). The BTB has a total fleet of about 210 buses. In addition to the
1 00 new buses it has about 50 buses from 1989 (9 years old), 15 from 1992 (6 years old), and 25
older buses. The schedule calls for 170 daily buses on the road, but in fact only about 150 buses
are operational daily. The repair and maintenance shop was so called "privatized." In fact, it
was given without competition to the previous employees, who rent the facility/equipment from
the BTB, as part of the labor agreement to reduce the BTB staff. Following the recommendation
of the previous Bank Mission, BTB retained the services of a Traffic Management Specialist
from the UK. However, his ability to make changes, under the existing environment, have been
limited.
Roads



- 60 -
17.   The number of contracts under the 5 civil works sub-components (Rehabilitation, Safety
Program, Bridges and Culverts, Routine Maintenance-by-Contract, and Overlay Program) has
been reduced as compared to the SAR list, as a result of the above-captioned priority-setting and
design issues, but also of the increase in the value of most contracts carried out. In particular
overlay packages C and D, and the new Safety Program - Sidewalks component have been
cancelled as a result of delays in complying with the timetable previously agreed to. Have been
completed as per the project records: (i) safety junctions at Rendezvous/Highway 7 and at
Codrington/Cave Hill under sub-component "b"; (ii) bridges and culverts at Treasure Beach,
Buccaneer Bay, Farm Road and Hothersal Turning under sub-component "c"; (iii) the pilot
project of routine maintenance by contract under sub-component "d"; and (iv) the overlay
program package A including Highways 4B, 1, U, T and Top Rock. To date, the total IBRD
expenditures for completed works amount to about Bds$ 24 million (about US$ 12 million).
18.   The planned completion dates for the two remaining ongoing contracts have not been
met, and the projects will not be completed by the project closing date. Eligible expenditures
until December 31, 1998, will be paid out of the remaining monies in the Special Account. No
updated contractor's program, utilities completion plan, and resettlement plan were submitted.
However, the resettlement of the households affected by realignments, roundabout works, and
widening of the right-of-way, are subject to clear compensation and reallocation rules which
seem to have been followed in an adequate manner. No environmental impact assessment
studies were carried out prior to commencing the works, and no mitigation plan prepared
thereafter. The mission assessment is that the works, which in majority take place in an urban
setting and include significant drainage works, will have a positive impact. The mission, could
not, however, satisfy itself that no negative impact would eventually take place.
(a) The Rehabilitation of Highway 6, Searles to Six Roads Project remains behind schedule due
to remaining problems with the resettlement of residents of houses in the right of way and the
removal from the right-of-way of utility facilities (water, gas, and telecommunications). Two
houses remain to be compensated but do not create any issue, while the relocation of the
inhabitants of two of the 23 households affected is still pending.
(b) The Overlay Package B contract is very much delayed, and the contract amount will have to
be revised significantly due to a number of VOs to accommodate increased quantities. One
serious issue is that the contract was signed, and given no objection to by the Bank, without the
completion of a proper and detailed design and drawings, which makes it difficult to assess how
much of the increased cost is accounted for by increased quantities or by a change in the scope of
works (some sections are indeed under full reconstruction, in some occasions with major
earthworks and cutting, realignment, and widening), notwithstanding how relevant the design
may be. In addition, the mission questioned when and how priorities were set, and why no
environmental and resettlement studies were carried out. The status of each sub-component is as
follows. Spring Garden Highway and Roebuck Street, and Fairfield Road were respectively
completed in July and December 1997 (overlays and sidewalks). Benn Hill, which include
realignment, is near completion (paving missing). Highway 4 and Hoyte's Village, which include
significant widening, drainage, safety barriers and wall construction, laybys, and houses to



- 61 -
resettle, are well advanced. The latest two are far from being completed: Highway W, started in
September 1998, includes significant widening and earth works but no resettlement of houses,
and Trents Road, started in June 1998, is in reality reconstruction of the road with significant
widening, realignment and earth works, and resettlement of houses. Works on Highway N have
not started.
19.   The pilot RMBC program has not reached its objectives due to improper packaging
which resulted in the first contracts being awarded to the two largest island contractors who did
not give priority to the contract's activities as they were more interested in other more lucrative
contracts. For future RMBC works, a reformulated contract should target a different kind of
contractors (i.e. smaller and more labor intensive) by contracting out groups of activities that do
not demand heavy equipment. The Road Maintenance and Equipment Management study carried
out by Wilbur Smith highlighted a number of constraints to the establishment of such small
contractors, but it appears that no careful thinking has been given to the type of works to be
awarded to small contractors for each type of roads and maintenance activities. A clear strategy,
with various maintenance options (be they force account of contracted out works), should have
been elaborated to define the most appropriate modes to carry out specific maintenance tasks,
and a special program should have been prepared to accompany small contractors from their
infancy to the point where they can bid and compete for routine maintenance contracts, and/or
assist former ministry staff in creating maintenance companies.
20.   Routine maintenance by force-account is conducted annually on most of the 1,600 km of
the network. Periodic maintenance (35 to 40 km annually, including 25 km of overlays) is
conducted on too small a portion of the network annually to effectively preserve road assets and
avoid expensive rehabilitation. However, no real effort was made to assess the efficiency of
force account operations vis a vis contracting out, especially so that equipment depreciation is
not accounted for in force account maintenance costs, and that the maintenance costs are fairly
high by all accounts. In addition, employment at MPT has reached a figure well above the 800
threshold indicated in section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement deemed an efficiency benchmark,
without accounting for the possible regularization of casual laborers and operators as civil
servants which would make any major reform of road management much more complicated
21.   The pieces of equipment procured for the Mechanical Workshop through the Bank loan
mainly resulted in GOB maintaining a plant pool in about the same state as at the beginning of
the project, with an average age of over 10 years. As MPT has not really considered options for
improving the workshop operations and establishing proper accounting procedures, the
equipment procurement component seems to have had a limited impact. In addition, it appears
contradictory with testing maintenance by contracts on a pilot basis as the project has in fact
increased force account capacity without a clear view of comparative advantages and costs. The
mission expressed its concern at the idea to regroup all workshops under one Ministry, which
would make operations even more bureaucratic, and indicated that other options --such as
concessioning to the private sector some workshops or auctioning off workshop equipment--
should be considered.



- 62 -
22.   Planning and programming has been somewhat strengthened through the computerized
maintenance management system and the establishment of a small planning unit attached to the
DCTO Operations. However, it appears that it basically was a one-shot operation in that similar
activities are no longer carried out due to some computers being operational anymore, Bump
Integrators-BIs broken down, trained technicians having left MPT, and the lack of organization
of MPT to conduct visual inspections and roughness measurement campaigns in a sustainable
manner.
23.   Staff training is still ongoing and MPT will submit a last request for no objection towards
the cost of three long-term training courses until the project closing date. It appears that this
component has been conducted in a rather ad-hoc manner in that courses attended do not follow a
clear rationale, and do not seem to be chosen in line with a manpower development strategy,
despite the fact that a training program was prepared at the inception of the project. This is
compounded by the fact that MPT still has difficulties to retain high quality staff due to the
private sector attraction strengthened by booming house and buildings construction activities. A
clear manpower development strategy is needed in parallel with a plan to restructure the Ministry
towards a more commercialized management of roads, and a plan to remedy to the perennial
problems of insufficient funding for it main activities. The project did not really assist
Government to this effect in that is included very little support to prepare such reforms.
Funding
24.   The total allocation of resources for the project by GOB totals Bds$ 10,125,522.38, or
about US$ 5 million, short of the amount of US$ 5.9 million revised when the project was
extended for 21 months. As of November 30, 1998, disbursements totaled Bds$ 30,694,722.11,
or US$ 12,867,874.88 (about 70% of the total Bank loan amount of US$18.5 million revised
when the project was extended), leaving a Loan balance of about US$ 5.5 million. The mission
informed the Government that requests for eligible expenditures incurred prior to the project
closing date (certificates or invoices for works and services completed under contracts given no
objection to) could be submitted for a period of three months after the project closing date. The
mission was informed that two additional requests for reimbursements, amounting respectively
to about US$ 700,000 and 500,000, would be submitted to the Bank, the first one within days,
and the second one after the closing date to account for all expenditures under the ongoing
contracts to be recovered.
25.   The balance in the Special Account currently amounts to US$ 700,632.01. The first of
the above-captioned requests for reimbursement will in fact be paid out of the Special Account,
which should allow to recover all remaining amounts. A full reconciliation of the Special
Account will be submitted by MPT by February 1, 1999.
26.   The mission met with the auditors, and discussed the preparation of the last audit for the
period April 1, 1998 to December 31, 1998. The audit will be conducted in March 1999, and
submitted to the Bank by June 1, 1999.



- 63 -
Next Steps
27.   The Bank will provide to the Government the draft ICR by end February 1999. The
Government will send to the Bank comments on the draft ICR within 2 weeks of receiving it, and
prepare and submit at the same time its contribution to the ICR, including inter alia: (a) an
assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation experience; (b) an
evaluation of its own performance with emphasis on lessons for the future; (c) an evaluation of
the Bank performance. Government will adopt a plan for the operational phase of the project,
which should inter alia include: (i) a transport sector policy; (ii) a plan to strengthen MPT's
institutional and organizational capacities; (iii) an analysis of options to manage the road network
in a more efficient way, including strengthening maintenance operations and the capacity of
MPT to conduct its operations; (iv) an analysis of alternative funding mechanisms --which would
require legislative changes and time-- aimed in the medium and longer term at independent
maintenance financing and sustainability of major investments; (v) a time-bound action plan to
facilitate the emergence of small contractors and/or strengthen the capacity of those already
existing in terms of business and site management, with specific actions regarding financial
capacity, adapted bidding procedures, and access to equipment; (vi) the elaboration of
environmental standards and mitigation measures for all civil works; and (vii) performance
indicators to monitor operations and development impact.
28.   MPT will submit the following items to assist in preparing the ICR: (i) detailed MPT
investmnent and maintenance budget execution for all years of the project life, including inter alia
the FY98/99 maintenance and overlay program, and detailed figures regarding unit costs of
maintenance tasks; (ii) final engineering reports with full accounts for all road works financed
under the project; (iii) a comparative list of projects carried out vis a vis the SAR list; (iv) a
detailed resettlement program and environmental mitigation measures related to the Highway 6
and overlay package B components; (v) a report on the execution of the training program,
including a list of all short-term and long-term courses with their detailed costs, as well as the
original training plan; (vi) the updated list of the Workshop equipment pool, and the final list of
equipment procured under the project with its detailed final cost; and (vii) all implementation
reports prepared.
Bernard Becq
Task Manager
World Bank



- 64-
Appendix
OFFICIALS MET DURING THE MISSION
NAME                     POSITION
Mr. Charles Smith        Permanent Secretary, MPT
Mr. Cedric Archer        Chief Technical Officer, MPT
Ms. Anne Belgrave        Chief Planning Officer, MPT
Mr. NASH Lovell          Deputy Chief Technical Officer, Projects
Mr. Frank Thomhill       Deputy Chief Technical Officer, Operations
Mr. Philip Tudor         Senior Technical Officer, Operations
Mr. Richard Griffith     Senior Technical Officer, Projects
Ms. Dian Spencer         Senior Mechanical Engineer, MPT
Mr. Stafford Browne      Financial Controller, MPT
Mr. Everton Goddard      Project Accountant, MPT
Mr. David Jean-Marie     General Manager, Barbados Transport Board
Mr. Trevor Clement       ITA
Mr. Abdulhai Pandor      Supervisory Consultant Engineer
Mr. Bentley Norville     Consultant Resident Engineer - Highway 6
Mr. Albert Phillips      Works Supervisor Highway 6 Project, Rayside Asphalt Paving Co.
Ms. Joyce Dear           Partner, Price Waterhouse and Coopers
Mr. David Ferdinand      Quantity Surveyor
Mr. Bentley Norville     Resident Engineer (PES)
Ms. Pamela Williams      IDB Representative
Mr. Ralph Carvallo       Permanent Secretary, Economic Affairs
Mr. Owen Ellis           Chief Project Analyst, Economic Affairs
Mr. David Ferdinand      Quantity Surveyor



MAP SECTION






IBRD 23663
5940'                                             59,35'                                            59130
-13'20'                                                                                                                                                                13'20Y'
BARBADOS
ngcnellTown+*x                                            SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE
i~ X / -.4- 9aAND REHABILITATION PROJECT
H, , , P .9a ChnceHoll 
Harrisonr o           S .
Half Acre                                                           PROJECT OVERLAY PROGRAM
t   -.-.  _ PROJECT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
r-f   S t \Be>D    S       ,s,    \o                                     PROJECT SAFETY PROGRAM
Fryer'sWell                                                                        -.......    CDB-FINANCED ROADS
Fry r's Well      +s-iond Corner'
.i ,,<   -.>g    ,*glc~~~~~~ihola's
tColleton                            \,~> hs<Morggn Lewis                        PRIMARY ROADS
etret   'Mile & a Quafe,rA                                                  . -  -   ---  -- -SECONDARY ROADS
-ST. PtE                            Gr  aland c`                              ROAD MAINTENANCE DEPOTS
tis,         pihsow~                         Oag Hill135'
-1315' Speightstowl >>, --  ;gt                                                                                     HillBellepla e  PARISH BOUNDARIES
(IS %.   rT. A N D  W   Xi         ~    -- ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Turner's Hall
.RockDundo\                        n   I :
w       Itmoreland   I-fill
pring Va  T
Lancaster'~~~~   ~'               Ch imbarazf7
Holelown5= JAME         .s  o           Sturges, ~                                          Gall Hil'    -
,?   ST. THOMAS                       L                                                W  Tswn
1310'                                                                         P                      o ro                                                              13-10'
f!  g 9  e   e< 3>.  Golden Rid                                    icket
Prospect A        -                     ne .Z
Clef         /ST. GEORGE
_ 3 J t2 1 t ,J v ,;XCo~~~~~~~~~~ttage Y>\,
.y                         weBrid                                        ST.       LIP
urn .       ;  ighton /
Deacon's FaE>, T    A                                                 p n e
BRIDGE;  <j
1305!                                        '                                 H        ClR2Lw               d                                                        13'05'-
30j~rriun  4   W  +                                                                                                           '
- ' / / o GrrJntley Ado~~~~~~~~~ms Airport
|>,  in biury             1  O~~~Ckancery Lane
.  ,                ~~~~~~Villoge           ,;
CUBA-            OOAIINICAN
,    --  _.  , __  RtEftIBLiC: '  .
HA     DOI NI CA                                                                   South Point
JAMAICA                      RICO            ANTIGUA                                                        0                 2                 4 MILES
GUiADELOUPE t                          
INICA                                                                    2          4 6          KILOMETERS
MARTINIQUE-,
.   , _                eSTLUCIA
ST. VINCENTf S -o
RAMADOS                                                his.p h. bee prepared by The WorlodBonk' stnff ...lusi-eiyfe,
GRENADA -A.t c"nfwnece of rewer- ono is for the internal us of Th. World
.A .'_,...                                                        Scnnk Group. the doneominotns us-d end the houndaries shoen on this
_-TkfNADAD                                              moep de net i.ply, e- lb. port of The Wend Bonk G-ep, -ey led0eseet
COL ,OMBIAJTCIBA- '''                        !       O ,3t en the  etotsof .ny territnrrhoy n yr-do.                                          t., ony d3rinn  tf  
COLMBIA, 'VXEZUEL                                                                                            59030r                                            59-25'
APRIL 1992



