/ ,v   -I)           I f  -   - />#fL
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                         Report No. 10264-BAR
Report No. 10264-BAR Type: (SAR)
MATES,  A   / X38648 / I5132/ LA3IE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 29, 1992
Department III
Infrastructure Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distributior and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Barbados Dollar
$B1.00 - US$0.50
US$1.00 - $B2.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1U$ gallon - '3.875 liters
1 mile - 1.613 km
1 pound - 0.453 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
BPA                 Barbados Port Authority
GOB                 Government of Barbados
EMS                 Equipment Management System
GOB                 Government of Barbados
HMMS                 Highway Maintenance Management System
IFAS                Integrated Financial Accounting System
MCW                 Ministry of Works, Communications and
Transportation
MMU                 Maintenance Management Unit
PU                  Planning Unit
TC                  Technical Committee
TCD                 Technical Department
TEU                 Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit
TLF                 Transport Levy Fund
TRB                 Transport Board
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF COKTENTS
Pate No.
I  LOAN AND PROJECT SUIa ARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
II* THESECTOR o                                                        oo#&e*3
A.   General   ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .   .  .  .  .a.  .  .  . 9 . .  .  .  .#.   3
B.   Institutional Setup     ......   .......... .... ......   4
C.  Ports   .................................4
D.  Airport .................................5
E.   Road  Transport    ........................  .   5
(a)    The  Network    ......  .....       ..........  .   5
(b) Road Administration ....................  5
(c)  Road Maintenance                  ........ . 6
(d)  Road Construction Industry .                                 8
(e)  Vehicle Fleet   . . . .                . .                   9
(f)  Axle Load Regulation                      9 *                9
(g)  Trucking Industry  a    .      .     ...                .    9
(h)  Passenger Transport and the Role of the Transport Board      9
(i)  Highway Planning   . o . . . . . . . o * * * . .            11
(j)  Fuel Prices and Other User Charges   . . . . . .            12
(k)  Highway Financing  . . . .. .......               ... o     13
III.  PAST BAIKEXPERIENCE IN TE SECTOR  ..       ................   13
IV* THE PROJECT  . .. . ..   * .o   . . . . . . ..... . . . ... .           14
A. Justification  . . . o....... *.               . . .......    14
B. Project Objectives   .                                              15
C. Project Description  .o... .            .......  .... .....         16
(a)    General   .          . .  .   .   .  ,  ..  .  ...  .  .  .  16
(b)  Road Rehabilitation                                         16
(c) Road Safety                  . . . . . . .                   16
(d)  Overlay Program    .e.                a v....v.. *  .       17
(e)  Bridge and Culvert Rehabilitation  . . . . . . . . . . .   17
(f)  Pilot Programs Routine Maintenance by Contract  . . *     s18
(g) 13quipment  .18                             ...........I
(h)  Institutional Improvement  ................   19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Barbados in February 1992. The mission consisted of Messrs. Amnon Mates, Task
Manager and Economist, Jos6 Luis Irigoyen, Engineer, and Richard Scurfield,
Transportation Expert.  Peer review was provided by Messrs. John Flora and
Ernesto Henriod. The report was prepared under the supervision of Mr. Graham
Smith, Division Chief, and Mr. Yoshiaki Abe, Director; Ms. Silvia Delgado
assisted in its production.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(it)
TABLE OP CONTENTS (cont's)
Page No.
Ml        General     ...                                    19
(ii)     Technical Asoistance   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
gil)      Studies  . o                                       20
(iv)     Training   . v..   ..............21
F.   Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
G.  Economic Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
(a)  Road Rehabilitation  ...................    24
(b)  OverlayProgram  .....  ..9                        925
(c)  Safety Program   .......         ...............   26
V* PROJECT INPLMEkNTATION  .   .. ....................                      26
A.   Project Execution   .....................   26
(a)    General    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
(b)  Project Coordination .' ....        ......... ...    26
(c)  Roadc Maintenance   ......    ..       9     9      ...    27
B. Procuremont  . .                ...... .    27
C-   Diabursementa   ..  .         .  ..9              9               28
E.   Auditlto   . . . . . .     .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    . . . .  29
E.   Monitorong m   Impa   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
Fo  Environmental Impact  .     000000031
G.   Project Riak  .o. . .   - . . . . . . o .                      a  31
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Recomnendation . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .  . . .  . .  34



BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMIARY
Borrowert      Government of Barbados (GOB).
Executing
Agency:        Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Transportation
(MCW).
Amount:        US$21.2 million aquivalent.
Terms:         15 years, with 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project
Objectives:    The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) install and
implement sound maintenance policies and procedures on the road
network; (b) preserve the capital base of road infrastructure
within the constraints on capital and current expenditures; (c)
reduce investment costs by transferring all capital works to the
private sector and explore the relative merits of private sector
participation in carrying out road maintenance activities; (d)
improve road safety; and (e) help the Government in its efforts
to privatize passenger transport services.
Project
Description:   The project finances a share of MCW's Five-Year (1992/93-1996/97)
Investment Plan which was appraised jointly by the Bank and the
CDB and is financed in parallel by both organizations. The Bank
project will finance:   (a) rehabilitation of two sectione of
Highway 6; (b) a safety program consisting of improvement to five
road intersections; (c) an overlay program involving about 160
km of high-priority roads; (d) rehabilitation of culverts and
bridges; (e) a pilot program of routine road maintenance by
contract; (f) equipment acquisition and rehabilitation in line
with the requirements of the Four-Year Road Maintenance Plan; and
(g) an institutional improvement program consisting of: technical
assistance for road maintenance and workshop operations; training
and retraining programs; and studies to rationalize the road
network and privatize public bus transport services.
Project
Benefitss      The project will result in substantial upgrading of about 30S of
the primary and secondary road networks and a significant
reduction in transport cost, traffic congestion and accidents.
The project will assist in the transfer of capital works and
periodic road maintenance to private contractors, increase
efficiency of road maintenance operations and improve equipment
availability. The project will allow the Government to carry out
vital capital and periodic maintenance works under drastically
lower budgetary allocations agreed upon as part of the IMF 1992
stand-by agreement. In addition, the project will lead to an
action plan to privatize passenger transport services and reduce
to a minimum Government subsidies to the publicly-owned bus
company (Transport Board).



-2-
Project
Risks:          The project carries little risk from the technical point of view.
However, the agreed road maintenance and investment programs
represent the minimum levels needed to preserve the road network;
any further budget reductions will endanger the level of service
of the road iafrastructure. We expect that the agreement with
the IMF will make further budgetary cuts unnecessary.   Aloo,
political factors could deter the Government from proceeding with
privatization of passenger transport services which are currently
provided by the publicly-owned bus company.   The project is
designed so that overlay works FY94/95 and beyond will not
proceed  until  there  is  satisfactory  progress  on  this
privatization program.
Local             Foreign             Total
Prolect Cost:                    ---------------(US$ million)--------------
(a)   Civil Works:
Rehabilitation              1.1                1.3                 2.4
Safety                      0.9                1.2                2.1
overlay                     5.3                9.9                15.2
Bridges & Culverts          0.2                0.2                0.4
Land Acquisition            1.5                 -                  1.5
Maint. by contract          0.3                0.4                 0.7
Subtotal               9.3               13.0               22.3
(b)   Equipment                   0.1                2.5                 2.6
(c)   Technical Assistance,       0.3                 1.7                2.0
Studies and Training
(d)   Contingencies               2.3                 4.0                6.3
Total                  12.0               21.2               33.2
Financina Plan:
IBRD Proiect        CDB Proiect      Total Proaram
Government             12.0                4.0               16.0
IBRD/CDB               21.2               _9.6               30.8
Total             33.2               13.6               46.8
Estimated Disbursements:    --------------Bank Fiscal Year---------------
1993      1994       1995      1996       1997
----------------(US$ million)----------------
Annual                         2.7       6.5        6.9       3.5        1.6
Cumulative                    2.7        9.2       16.1      19.6       21.2
Estimated Economic Return: 35Z-average for all project components.



II. TAE SECTOR
A.    General
2.1         Barbados is a relatively stiall island with a population of 244,000
and a total area of 430 square kilometers. It enjoy., however, an extensive
paved road network of 1,550 km (Table 1). The paved road density, at 3.6 km per
square kilometers, is high in comparison with other islands of a similar size
(Grenada - 1.5; St. Vincent - 1.5; St. Lucia - 1.1). The relatively flat terrain
(except for the northeastern part of the island) and the higher standard of
living (GDP per capita in Barbados is more than three times higher than the other
islands mentioned above) contribute to the incrffased road network size.
Nevertheless, maintenance of some low-traffic tertiary roads could be minimized
without affecting the efficiency of the system.
2.2         Barbados has spent substantial resources on developing its elaborate
road network. The level of road investments peaked in FY86/87 at about $B43
million (Table 2); it has declined in subsequent years reflecting the completion
of major projects (the northern access road and the airport road). Total road
investment as a percentage of public sector investment reached a high of 26% in
FY86/87, but declined to a more reaeonable 16-18S in recent years (Table 3). In
terms of current expenditures, the road sector accounted for 6-9S of public
sector expenditures since 1984 (Table 3).
2.3         In addition to roadst the transport system in Barbados consists of
one deep water port, several fishing ports and one major international airport.
There are no railways in Barbados. The main road cargo traffic consists of sugar
cane being transported from the producing areas to the ret;neries, rum and
molasses which are exported, internal transport of construction materials,
especially cement, and general cargo of imports of foodstuff and industrial
products.
2.4         In September 1991 the Government embarked on a stabilization program
that led to a Stand-by arrangement with the IMP in February 1992. The Government
reduced the overall public sector deficit from 7.31 of GDP in FY90/91 to 1S in
FY91/92 and plans to eliminate it in subsequent years. To achieve this, the
Government reduced drastically its capital and current expenditures.
Consequently, the investment 2rogram of the Ministry of Public Works,
Communications and Transportation (MCW) for PY91/92 was reduced by about $B10
million to a level of $B30 million (of which investments in roads amount to about
$B26 million). The Government also reduced MCW's payroll from 2,500 to about
1,300. The reduced level of investment and staff will coincide with elimination
of all force-account capital works and a transfer of most periodic maintenance
works to private contractors.
2.5         The Government's strategy for the sector now calls for a minimum
investment in new construction and reconstruction works which will be limited to
a few high-priority projecta, a shift in focus to efficient management of the
existing network, especially adequate road maintenance policies, and an increased
role for the private sector in carrying out this strategy.   The Government
intends to mobilize substantial external resources to enable implementation of
the required investments and periodic maintenance works and improve the
efficiency of public transport sector entities.



-4-
B.    Institutional Setu,
2.6         The Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Transportation (MCW)
is responsible for planning, construction and maintanance of the public road
network. MCW customarily prepares engineering studies for small projects and
supervises all but the largest capital works carried out by contractors.  In
addition, MCW has been carrying out some civil works through force-Sccount. MCW
is also responsible, through its Licensing Authority, for vehicle registration
and ivsapection, issuance of drivers' licenses, compliance with vehicle weight
regulation, and regulation of passenger transport. The International Transport
and Communications Division of MCW is responsible for air services and oversees
the operation of the international airport. The organizational structure of MCW
is given in chart I.   The Government-owned Transport Board (TRB) operates
passenger transport services.  The operations of the Bridgetown Port is the
responsibility of the Barbados Port Authority (BPA).
C.    Ports
2.7         Almost all imports and exports are handled in .he deep water port (30
ft. draught) at Bridgetown. The port commenced operations in 1961 and is well
served by marine liners, which provide connections with most trading partners.
The port facilities, which include six deep-water berths, cargo handling
facilities, four transit sheds and administrative facilities, were expanded and
improved in the late 1970's with assistance from the IDB.  The port's container
facility was expanded in recent years and a large crane handling 24 containers
per hour was purchased with EEC's assistance. In addition, there are private
unloading facilities for aviation fuel and crude oil (owned by the oil companies)
sad coal (owned by Barbados Light Company). The cement plant at Arawak also has
its own export facilities.  Finally, there are numerous small fishing ports
located around the island.
2.8         The Barbados Port Authority (BPA) administers the deep water port,
except for stevedoring, which is in private hands.  Total traffic in the port in
both 1989 and 1990 amounted to about 600,000 tons, substantially above the
figures for the three preceding years, but about the same as the traffic level
in the early 80's, before the port lost significant trans-shipment traffic to St.
Lucia (Table 4). Container traffic showed consistent growth over the period,
from 294,000 tons in 1986 to 435,000 in 1990, and now accounts for over 702 of
total traffic. Most cargo traffic at the Bridgetown port is inbound (over 86X
of the total) reflecting the trade imbalance. The port also provides a cruise
ship stop-over point with duty-free facilities.   In 1990, total passenger
arrivals were about 378,000, up substantially from the 303,000 in 1988. The port
management hac introduced several improvements in recent years to reduce
operating cost. BPA has shown an operating profit every year up to 1990 (e.g.
$B1.3 million in 1988 and $B1.6 million in 1989). The loss in 1990 was a minimal
$BO.2 million, after a $BO.5 million provision for foreign exchange losses and
one-time expenses related to dismissal of some staff.
2.9         The port facilities are sufficient to handle the traffic in the
foreseeable future. Container capacity, at 75,000 TEU annually, is substantially
above the present traffic level of 39,000 TEU, while other breakbulk and bulk
cargo traffic are not showing significant growth. BPA is developing plans for
additional facilities to recapture the trans-shipment market, but financing for
this purpose from private sources does not seem likely at the moment.



-5-
D.    Airort
2.10        The Grently Adams International Airport is Barbados' only airport.
A new terminal building and other facilities, coating about $B28 milllon, were
completed in 1980 with Assistance from CIDA ($Can 10 million). The facility is
designed to cater to aaarly 3 million passengers, substantially above the 1990
figure of 1.6 million (Tablo 5). The runway was rehabilitated in 1986 with CDB
financing and is in good shape. However, freight handling ia inefficient and
suffers from lack of an adequate all-weather storage facility to accouodate
freight cargo, which is growing rapidly (16Z in 1989 and 18S in 1990). CDB is
financing a feasibility study for improvements in this area.
2.11        The airport, with a total length of 11,200 feet and width of 130
feet, is capable of handling all commercial aircraft including jumbo jets. It
is well served by North American and European airlines. Total air movements in
1990 amountLi to 37,700, up from 35,000 in 1989.
2.12        Administration  of  the  airport  is  the  responsibility  of  the
International Transport Division within MCW. Airport operations are generally
well run and the staff of about 250 is adequate. The airport generates various
revenues, none of which is earmarked. For FY89/90 (last available data) total
airport revenues amounted to about $B33 million, of which the departure tax
raised $B19.1 million, landing fees $15.5 million, concession fees $B4.0 million
and other airline charges $B4.3 million. These revenues were substantially above
airport expenditures, which amounted to $B16.4 million, including $B2.2 million
in capital outlays.
E.   Road Transport
(a)   The Network
2.13        The surface transport system of 1,550 km of public roads consists of
seven radial highways fsaning out from Bridgetown (Map IBRD 23663). The radial
highways are linked to each other by secondary and tertiary (feeder) roads. In
addition, there are some 300 km of private roads. All of the roads in the public
system are paved but are usually narrow (5.5 to 7 meters) and lack sidewalks.
The road network (Table 1) is classified into primary roads (381 km or 25Z of the
total), secondary roads (215 km or 142), local roads which feed the secondary
road network (646 km or 411) and development roads, mainly in rural areas (308
km or 201). The roads are generally in good condition (541). Only 11Z of the
roads are classified in poor condition, most of them local roads. Of the primary
and seconda-ry rotad, about 60 km are classified in bad condition; they will be
improved under the project.  Traffic volumes in and around Bridgetown are
generally high, and range between 5,000 and 22,000 vehicles per day within the
city and 3,000-20,000 on main roads leading into the city. Traffic volumes are
drastically leos in rural areags, where some roads carry less than 100 vehicles
a day.   Traffic on some of these low-volume roads could be satisfied by
alternative routes and this issue will be investigated by the Road Network
Rationalization Study, under the proposed project (paras. 4.18).
(b) Road Administration
2.14        The Technical Department (TCD) of MCW, headed by the Chief Technical
Officer (CTO)p is in charge of the design, execution and supervision of public



- 6 -
works included in KCW's capital investment and recurrent programs through four
divisions: Projects, Design Services, Operations, and Mechanical (see Chart 1).
The Projects Division is responsible for the implementation of road projects
funded by external agencies. The Design Services Division in in charge of in-
house preparation of designs for public building projects and small road
projects, and bidding documents for procurement of civil works. The Operations
Division is responsible for construction works done by force-account and road
maintenance operatione. Finally, the Mechanical Division operates and maintains
MCW's equipment fleet as well as the Government's general purpose vehicle fleet
through the workshop located at MCW's headquarters.
2.15        Engineering studies for large projects are generally performed by
consultants, as MCW's in-house capability is limited to a few key professional
staff.   Road design standards and technical specifications applied to new
construction and rehabilitation of primary roads are appropriate and the quality
of the studies is satisfactory. However, there are no separate guidelines and
standards to deal with the rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary roado, which
often result in inconsistent standards being applied for the same level of
traffic. To assist MCW in correcting this problem, the proposed Road Network
Rationalization Study will define appropriate standards and strategies for road
improvement and maintenance as a function of traffic level and composition.
2.16        All major civil works are carried out by private contractors.  HCW
has carried out minor works using its own construction labor force.   For
instance, about 402 of all civil works under the Bank's recently completed Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2432-BAR) was done by force-
account.   Those force-account works suffered unnecessary delays and cost
increases. Under the retrenchment program announced in September 1991, MCW staff
assigned to road and building construction projects has been cut from about 900
to 450 casual laborers. The proposed project will support the shift away from
force-account works by ensuring that all road capital works are carried out by
private contractors. Furthermore, MCW operated in the past an asphalt plant
located at Seawell; the plant was closed in 1989 and sold to a private
contractor. MCW now purchases most of the materials needed for maintenance works
from private suppliers.
2.17        Supervision of major civil works contracts has been performed by
consultants under the overall guidance and monitoring of the Projects Division
with the TCD.  Usually, the consultants involved in the preparation of the
engineering designs were also responsible for supervising construction to ensure
sccountability. However, quality control of engineering materials has not been
rigorously enforced and suppliers of materials have not been required to conform
to standard specifications due to the limited testing facilities available on the
island. In response to this deficiency, MCW has equipped and strengthened ite
Soils and Materials Laboratory through a technical assistance and acquisition
program financed by the first Bank project. The laboratory is now capable of
establishing standards and certifying the quality of materials uced for
maintenance, construction and rehabilitation.  The laboratory also provides
outside services for the local construction industry.
(c) Road Maintenance
2.18        MCW is responsible for road maintenance, including both rural and
urban roads, through the Operations Division within TCD. The overall budget for



- 7 -
maintenance has been generally in line with requirements. However, operational
efficiency has remained low because of over-staffing and improper preparation of
maintenance budgets and allocation of rescurces. Past maintenance budgets have
reflected this significant resource imbalance: an average of 732 has been
allocated to labor, 202 to materials and 7Z to equipment, while best practice
elsewhere indicates that labor should account for less than 502 of the total.
Until mid-1991 MCW had employed on average some 1,4OO employees under the casual
labor regime, who were assigned to maintenance operations.  In reality, only
about 60% were necessary to carry out this program and the rest were partially
used to ca.   out capital works.  This situation has beer corrected recently
under the retrenchment program, by which maintenance operatl - casual labor has
been reduced to about 780 laborers.  Savings expected t1   ,h such reduction
amount to about US$4 million equivalent on an annual basis. To avoid repetition
of past overstaffing, agreement was reached during negotiations that total staff
assigned to road maintenance will not exceed 800 employees.
2.19        During project preparation, MCW, with the assistance of consultants
and IBRD staff, has developed a Four-Year Maintenance Plan for the period
FY92/93-FY95/96 (Annex 1).  The plan is based on an inventory of the road
network, which included the specific condition of every feature of each road
link. Taking into account such conditions, and using agreed performance and
productivity standards, a performance budget was prepared.  This budget is
divided into routine a~nd periodic maintenance activities, showing for each
activity the amount of work that is planned and expected to be performed and the
resulting cost divided among materials, labor and equipment.  The plan also
yields the total staffing requirements in each labor category, the number of
units of each equipment type and the required quantities of all materials.
2.20        The maintenance plan for the entire network for FY92/93 is given in
Tables 6-8. The plan provides for an adequate level of funding according to the
existing needs, a well balanced distribution between routine and periodic
maintenance, and an increased participation by private contractors. The total
budget for FY92/93, which takes into account the recent staff reductions in MCW,
amounts to US$10.4 million equivalent, compared with about US$15.2 equivalent
originally budgeted for FY91/92. For FY93/94 the budget increases to US$13.1
million, reflecting the start of overlay works under the project. Of the total
amount, about 332 will be carried out by contract, mostly for periodic overlay
works but also for a pilot program of routine maintenance by contract. The total
staff necessary to carry out the plan is about 750, in line with the available
manpower. MCW has already pF-pared a satisfactory assignment schedule for all
road maintenance staff. Agr  mAent was reached during negotiations that MCW will
implement the Four-Year (1992/93-1995/96) Road Maintenance Plan as agreed with
the Bank.
2.21         Of the total maintenance budget of US$13.1 million for FY93/94,
US$4.2 million equivalent are for overlay works which will be covered under the
proposed project; hence, the minimum required for the maintenance budget is
US$8.9 million equivalent, of which US$3.0 million represent materials, US$4.0
million represent labor and US$1.9 is the cost of the equipment operation. The
provision by the Government to MCW of an annual allocation of US$3.0 million
equivalent for materials constitutes a condition of the proposed project.
Agreement was also reached that, by December 31 of each year, MCW will submit an
update of the Four-Year Road Maintenance Plan, Including the amount allocated for
the current year and that planned for the following three years, and that by June



30 of each year MCW will inform the Bank of the amount actually spent in the
preceding year and that allocated for the current fiscal year.
2.22        To carny out the Four-Year Road Maintenance Plan, MCW needs to
implement appropriate field work scheduling and feedback reporting procedures,
and improve resource usage and crew productivity.   The road maintenance
management system initiated under the on-going Bank project has not yet been
installed in the field.  czoently, a "Pilot Depot" was selected for the purpose
of implementing such procedures and testing them by the field crews.   The
proposed project will assist MCW in implementing the road maintenance management
system throughout all districts and denots by providing follow-up technical
assistance in road maintenance operations and a training program to instruct
maintenance staff in the new procedures.
2.23        Organizationally, the responsibility for road maintenance operations
is divided between three units: the districts, who are in charge of road
maintenance works, the Maintenance Management Unit (MMU), which is responsible
for maintenance planning and monitoring, and the Equipment Management Unit, which
is responsible for equipment operation.  The first two units are under the
Operations Division, whereas the third operates under the Mechanical Division
(Workshop). While the organizational structure of all units is adequate, one
weakness has been the lack of coordination in the assignment of equipment units
to maintenance operations. The Operations Division has little input into how the
equipment fleet is assigned to the districts and how the preventive maintenance
is carried out. Currently, equipment and vehicles are removed from operation for
maintenance servicing by the Mechanical Division, are not replaced with
substitute units, and then held out of service for extensive periods of time,
often for repairs that have to wait for spare parts.   Two factors have
contributed largely to this problem:   the absence of an annual equipment
servicing program, and the lack of an adequate stock of spare parts.  The
proposed project will assist MCW in overcoming these problems by financing the
purchase of a stock of spare parts, updating road maintenance plans and providing
a second-phase technical assistance program geared at the workshop level. To
facilitate the implementation of the equipment management system, the appointment
of an equipment manager and a workshop accountant are conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed loan. Furthermore, coordination among organizational units will
beo improved through a Technical Committee (TC); th's committee was created
recently to periodically review the road maintenance program and the equipment
needs originating from this program, and ensure coordination with the workshop.
(d)   Road Construction Industrv
2.24        There are three major companies in Barbados with a construction
capacity over US$5 million, which own and operate all asphalt plants on the
island. Three other smaller enterprises provide some paving services, although
they depend on the large companies for the provision of asphalt mixes. Small
jobs are often carried out by sub-contractors; there is a large number of small
firms specialized in concrete works. In addition, there is a well developed
market for equipment rentals. The road construction sector is adequate for the
needs of the country and operates without interference from the Government.
2.25        Road construction costs are relatively high. High wages, dependance
on imported goods, and the small size of the market explain these high costs.
Foreign firms, predominantly regional, have shown some interest, but only in



-9 -
medium and large road construction jobs. Legislation for contract administration
end other legal aspects, such as taxation, employment and importation regimes,
is appropriate. In particular, to encourage participation of foreign firms,
heavy construction equipment used in road construction projects financed by
multilateral agencies can be imported duty-free on a temporary basis, provided
it is either taken out of the country at the end of the contract, or officially
imported then by paying a reduced tax.
(e)   Vehicle Fleet
2.26        The island's poeulation is highly motorized with approximately 49,000
motor vehicles regiatered in 1990, or about 190 vehicles per 1,000 population
(Table 9).  This compares vith about 100 vehicles per 1,000 population in
neighboring St. Lucia.  The vehicle fleet has been growing at a   4-SZ annual
rate in recent years. Most of the fleet is light vehicles, and trucks number
only about 2,000 or about 4Z of the total fleet. The low percentage of trucks
results in generally low deterioration of road pavements. Among trucks, most are
small; there are only a few (76) articulated trucks.
(f)   Axle Load Reaulation
2.27        Axle loads are regulated by the Road Traffic Act of 1985. This Act
sets the maximum gross weight of trucks at 7.7 tons for 2-axle trucks with 2
tires, 13.2 tons for 2-axle trucks with dual tires at the rear axle and 26.5 tons
for other trucks. These limits are satisfactory. All trucks ars required to
post their net and gross weight limit alongside. The Licensing Authority within
MCW is responsible for enforcement of regulation through its special inspectors.
Weighing of vehicles is done either at the Licensing Authority headquarters in
Bridgetown or through an existing arrangement with four sugar factories
throughout the island. Penalties for overloading are steep (up to B$5,000 in
fines or twe::e-h imprisonment).  In general, however, overloading is not
common in Barbados. In exceptional cases the Licensing Authority is empowered
to issue special permits for trucks to haul loads In excess of regulatory limits
on specific trips along a specific route. The Licensing Authority also has the
right to refuse renewal of a road license or special permit if the vehicle is
judged likely to cause damage to the road. To ensure compliance with regulation,
the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Commerce is required to refer all
applications for importation of vehicles exceeding 7.7 tons to the Licensing
Authority to ensure that they comply with the provisions of the Road Trafffic Act
(g)   Truckint Industry
2.28        The total trncking fleet in Barbados is about 2,000, mostly light
trucks  The industry is fragmented and consists mainly of individual operators
and companies owning their own trucks. The largest road haulage company owns
about sixty trucks and the second largest, about fifteen. The industry Is very
competitive and freight rates are determined by the truckers without any
Government interference.
(h)   Passenger Transnort Ind the Role of the Transoort Board
2.29        The transport of passengers is shared by the private and the public
sectors. The private sector operates minibuses (carrying 33 passengers) and
maxi-taxis (carrying 10 passengers) in addition to regular taxis. There are 195



- 10 -
registered minibuses (of which 137 are non-owner driven) and 174 maxi-taxis, in
addition to about 1,200 taxis.   The issuance of permits for operation of
minibuses and maxi-taxis has been suspended since 1984, and those for taxis since
1989, because of complaints by existing owners of the rapid proliferation of
licenses.   MCW assigns routes to minibuses,  generally along dense traffic
corridors in and out of Bridgetown.   The maxi-taxis, which are supposed to
operate as a one-party transport vehicles, have in fact been operating as mini-
buses by collecting passengers along city routes. About 330 five-passenger vans,
which are registered as regular taxis, have also been collecting passengers along
the routes, in contravention of their permits. Both maxi-taxis and small vans
have been operating wherever they chose. The Government passed recently a law
aimed at regularizing the services of both types of vehicles along assigned
routes, while increasing substantially their permit fees.
2.30        The public sector operates its own passenger transport entity, the
Transport Board (TRB), in competition with minibuses and maxi-taxis. TRBI's fleet
consists of 180 buses, of which only 80Z are in service. TRB employs about 1,200
people, of which about 800 are drivers or conductors (about equally divided).
It operares according to a published route and time schedule, and, by Government
instruction, has to service also routes to rural areas which are clearly
unprofitable. The passenger fare is determined by the Government and does not
vary with distance. Discounts are mandated for students and senior citizens.
The fare was raised by 50% in September 1991 to $B1.50 (US$0.75) per trip. The
minibuses charge the same fares as TRB, but are not required to provide the
discounted fares.
2.31        Ridership on TRB's buses has declined sharply in the early 1980's (by
about one third between 1980 and 1984), reflecting the introduction of minibus
service and the higher level of motorization. Since 1984, the decline has been
more orderly, about 2-3% p.a. Total ridership in 1989 amounted to 26 million;
of the total, about 70% were full-fare passengers, 20% students who enjoy a 50%
discount, and the rest free-riding passengers. Total revenues generated in FY90
were about $B25.8 million, down from $B27.3 million in 1989, and in line with the
decline in ridership.
2.32        TRB has suffered losses in its operations since 1976 and has relied
on Government support to conduct its operations. The subsidy peaked in FY87/88
at a level of $B22 million. Government subsidies for operations in both FY90/91
and FY91/92 were about $B10 million.   In addition, the Government financed
capital expenditures (mainly for purchase of buses) totalling $B6.7 million in
1990-91 and $B2.3 million in FY91/92. As the above figures demonstrate, the
financial burden on the Government is substantial, both in absolute terms and as
a percentage of total expenditures (over 1% of total public sector expenditures).
The actual cash deficit for TRB was about $B5 million higher than the subsidy
level and was financed mainly by deferring payments to the National Insurance
Board.
2.33        There are several reasons for the poor performance of the Transport
Board, most important of which are internal inefficiencies.  For instance, each
bus is carrying a driver and a conductor (fare-collector). The salary for all
conductors alone amounts to stme $B6.5 million. On most routes, the installation
of a fare collection box could substitute the need for a conductor, and the
proposed project includes financing for purchase of the fare-boxes. However, the
potential release of all conductors has been a source of continuous labor union



- 11 -
conflicts, although 230 positions were eliminated as of April 1992 in agreement
with the union.  Other factors contributing to TRB's losses are inefficient
maintenance facilities, deficient bus schedules, a requirement to serve remote
areas at a frequency which makes the service a money-losing proposition, and a
uniform fare which makes it impossible to recover the cost of longer bus routes.
2.34        The Transport Board was the subject of a consultant study in 1984
as well as numerous Government committees. Unfortunately, the focus of these
examinations was on marginal improvements in operations and scheduling without
facing the major issue of whether, and to what extent, the public sector should
be involved in passenger transport. The Government has now drafted, with Bank
assistance, terms of reference for a study to be financed by the European
Development Fund, which will develop an action plan to reduce the public sector
role in the transport of passengers (Annex 2). The main options to be examined
by the study are: (a) a substantial reduction in TRB services limiting them to
serving non-economic routes under a specific Government subsidy; and (b)-
elimination of the TRB altogether with the money-losing routes to be transferred
to the private sector under a specific subsidy arrangement. The contract for the
TRB study is expected to be awarded by September 1992 with final recommendations
by June 1993. Pending completion of the study, the Government submitted during
negotiations a detailed plan involving a reduction of total staff from the
present level of over 1200 to 740 by September 1992, thus completing the
conversion to a one-person bus operation. As a result, the cash deficit for
FY92/93 will be reduced to about $B4 million.  Agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Government will carry out this plan. Furthermore, by July
31, 1993, the Government will submit to the Bank an acceptable time-phased action
plan based on the results of the Transport Board Study, aiming at reducing to a
minimum the public sector involvement in passenger transport. Progress on this
action plan will constitute one of the main issues to be reviewed during the Mid-
Term Project Review in the first quarter of 1994 (para. 5.20). Disbursements
against overlay works in FY94/95 and beyond will not be approved by the Bank
unless the mid-term review determines that there is a satisfactory progress on
the agreed action plan (para. 4.20).
Mi)   Hiahway Planning
2.35        As part of the conditionality of the (first) Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project, MCW created a Planning Unit (PU) and staffed it with two
qualified officers. These officers have attended overseas courses in transport
planning and received additional training in the context of the technical
assistance in project preparation provided under the loan. However, most project
investment decisions have been taken by TCD without sufficient consultations with
the PU. At the same time, a Maintenance Management Unit (MMU) was created within
the TCD to prepare a road inventory and plah maintenance activities. As the
focus of MCW's capital budget is changing from new investment projects to
appropriate maintenance policies, the importance of the MHU in the planning
process will become more and more pronounced. Given this change in focus, and
to improve coordination between the two units, agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Planning Unit be incorporated into the Technical Department
by December 31, 1992. The upcoming technical assistance will include training
for both the PU and the MMU staff in investment and maintenance planning,
especially in the use of the Highway Design and Maintenance Model, developed by
the Bank and now commonly used for design of road maintenance strategies.



- 12 -
(j)   Fuel Priceo and Other User Charao.
2.36        Fuel prices in Barbados are highs gasoline is priced at $B1.38 per
liter (equivalent to US$2.62 per US gallon) and diesel at $B1.22 per liter
(US$2.32 per gallon). The CIF cost of the products per gallon were (as of end-
1991) US$0.74 and US$0.65, respectively. The structure of gasoline and diesel
prices is given in Table 10. With the consumption tax at US$1.36 per gallon for
gasoline and US$1.23 for diesel, the revenues collected are substantialt $B61
million in 1990 and an estimated $B77 million in 1991 (Table 11). The 1991
figure is itself more than the total budgetary allocation in FY91/92 for road
maintenance ($B22 million) and capital expenditures ($B26 million). As the
numbers above indicate, there is also no distortion in the relative pricing of
diesel and gasoline.
2.37        The cost of registration fees and operating permits are also high.
Private cars and vans pay an annual fee of $B265-350 depending on weight; light
trucks $B800; medium trucks $B2,500; and heavy trucks $B5,000.   Passenger
transport vehicles also pay large fees: minibuses pay an initial permit of
$B7,500, and annual fees of $B2,500-3,000; tour operators' vehicles pay an
initial fee of $B15,000 and annual fee of $B6,000; taxis pay $B1,250 for a permit
and $B250-400 in annual fees; maxi-taxis $B12,500 and $B600; hire cars $B2,500
and $B800; and transport buses $B800-1,600.  As a result, registration fees
generate substantial revenues: $B16 million in FY90/91 and an estimated $B17
million in FY91/92, a very large amount in relation to the cost of rehabilitation
and maintenance of the road system. Other charges on road users include vehicle
inspection fees, driving tests and licenses, special permits, etc. These fees
generated an additional $B6 million in revenues in both FY90/91 and FY91/92.
2.38        Import duties, stamp duty and consumption tax generate substantial
additional revenues from road users. Cars, pick-ups and vans have a duty of 45Z,
a consumption tax of 63-83Z (depending on the value of the vehicle), a stamp duty
of 201 and a recently imposed luxury surcharge of 2021 Buses and trucks have
essentially the same set of charges, except that import duty is only 101.
Revenues generated by these taxes yielded over $B36 million in 1988 and an
estimated $B37.5 million for 1989, the last year for which actual data are
available. The additional luxury tax of 201 may or may not generate additional
net revenues, since the Government hopes that it would have the effect of
dampening demand and reducing total imports of vehicles.
2.39        User charges and costs are presented in Table Q2 for the period
1986/87-1990/91 and an estimate is provided for 1991/92. As can be seen from the
table, user charges have substantially exceeded the sum of both road maintenance
and investment costs for each year. For FY91/92, total revenues are over twice
the total road costs.   User charges are also adequate in terms of their
distribution among vehicle types. A calculation was made (Table 13) for revenues
generated by buses and trucks on a 1,000 vehicle-per-day road based on the
average vehicle distribution within the country. The table shows that buses and
trucks alon generate more than sufficient revenues to cover the maintenance cost
of the roads.  Therefore, no further action is required with regard to user
charges policy in Barbados in terms of its overall level or the distributional
effect among vehicle types.



- 13 -
(k)   Hishway Financing
2.40        Funds for highway construction and maintenance are provided by the
Government from general budget revenues after approval by the Cabinet and the
Parliament. None of the regular user charges is earmarked for highway financing.
However, in 1982 a Transport Levy Fund (TLF) was created to defray the cost of
improvement of public transport and the construction and maintenance of public
roads. It is funded by a charge against earnings of every employed person (1.75Z
of salary charged to employees and 0.25Z to employers on all salaries up to
$B2,600 per month). Total revenues generated by the TLF in PY89/90 were about
$B27 million and a similar amount is expected to be generated in FY91/92. Most
of the funds generated by the TLF have, until recently, been used for subsidizing
the public transport system, with the rest assigned for construction and
improvement of developmental roads. The TLF is a purely fiscal instrument--not
a user charge-- because it is levied on earnings and is not related to the use
of road infrastructure.  Its significance in terms of the budget is that its
resources can not be used for other purposes. Given the expected elimination of
Government subsidies to the TRB beyond FY92/93 and the substantial reduction in
coming years in road investments to be financed wholly by the Government (only
about $B7 million in FY94/95), the Transport Levy Act should be amended so as to
permit its use for general Government revenues or phased out totally.   The
Government plans to phase out this tax as part of its overall tax reform which
is being developed in cooperation with the IMF. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Government will submit to Parliament an amendment to the
Transport Levy Act, or abolish it, no later than March 31, 1994.
III. PAST BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE SECTOR
3.1         The Bank has had only one operation in the road sector:  the Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, Loan 2432-BAR (US$11.0 million
equivalent). It was signed in June 1984 and became effective in November of the
same year.   The project financed reconstruction of about 31 km of roads,
improvement of some road intersections and a technical assistance and
institutional building program in the areas of road traffic, workshops,
laboratory research, road maintenance and overall planning. The loan closed on
December 31, 1991.
3.2         The experience with project implementation has been reasonably good.
All road civil works were substantially completed by end-1989, about one year
beyond the original closing date. The works have been completed to the desired
standard. The only major setback was the misprocurement declared on the contract
for rehabilitation of a section of Highway 2A (from Mile & a Quarter to Highway
IA) when MCW reversed a prior decision and awarded the contract, unjustifiably
in the Bank's opinion, to a bidder who did not submit the lowest evaluated bid.
The Bank subsequently canceled the amount of the loan allocated to Highway 2A
(US$2.5 million) and the loan was reduced to US$8.5 million.
3.3         During appraisal of the first projact, the Bank agreed that up to 502
of all road civil works, mostly smaller works, could be carried out by force-
account. This was done in recognition of the available manpower within MCW and
taking into account the high mobilization cost by private contractors.  The
experience with force-account work has been satisfactory in terms of quality.



- 14 -
However, these works tended to coot more and to take longer than expected. In
fact, only force-account works remained incomplete by the original closing date
of the loan. There is presently no further justification for MCW to carry out
any force-account capital works, especially given the recent cuts in MCW
personnel, which have left just enough staff to carry out the required
maintenance work. This change is reflected in the content and design of the
proposed project.
3.4         In terms of institution building, the first project brought about the
establishment of the Traffic Divisior headed by a qualified overseas-trained
officer. MCW also formed the Planning Unit (para 2.35), created the position of
an Internal Auditor and established the Integrated Financial Accounting System
(IhAS), responsible for monitoring and processing project expenditures.
Furthermore, with technical assistance provided by the US Department of
Transportation, and financing under the loan, MCW established and equipped a
Soils and Materials Laboratory, which is now playing an important role in setting
engineering specifications, reviewing project design and supervising the quality
of materials used in all civil works.
3.5         The one drawback in achieving the full objectives of the technical
assistance program was its late start. Only in 1988 did MCW sign a contract with
the US Department of Transportation to provide technical assistance in the areas
of equipment, road zaintenance, soils laboratory and traffic management. Both
soils laboratory and traffic management experts have fully completed their
assignments, having achieved all their objectives. The Traffic Division, which
is responsible for improving vehicle and pedestrian traffic flows and increasing
road safety, is functioning smoothly and traffic counts are available throughout
the road network. The soils laboratory is responding to all MCW needs as well
as providing services to outside parties.   However, in the areas of road
maintenance, equipment and workshops, the objectives were only partially met.
A new equipment maintenance system was designed by the consultants, but the
protracted review of the system by the committee established for that purpose by
MCW, did not leave sufficient time for the computerization and implementation
stage. In terms of road maintenance, a road inventory was prepared, quantity
standards developed, individual maintenance activities costed, and a computerized
maintenance program prepared. Again, the system did not enter the implementation
and monitoring stage. The implementation of both systems will be financed by the
proposed project.   Finally, while the project accounting system has been
computerized, the task of computerizing the accounting system of the MCW as a
whole did not take place because of the delays in implementing the road
maintenance and the equipment management systems.   This task will also be
included under the proposed project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Justification
4.1         The expansion of the road network to provide all parts of Barbados
with reasonable access has now been completed, with only a few links still
needing rehabilitation and reconstruction work to bring them to an acceptable
standard. The Government strategy now focuses on providing an adequate level of
service, which requires efficient road maintenance and equipment management



- 15 _
policies.   Some progress in both areas was achieved under the first Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2432-BAR) and the completion of this
task and the implementation of a road maintenance and equipment management
systems constitute a major objective of the new project. The implementation of
the two systems will be assisted by outside consultants, and will benefit from
the Bank's presence and monitoring.
4.2         Severe shortage of foreign exchange and rapid loss of competitiveness
by Barbados' tourism, industries and agriculture led to the February 1992 stand-
by agreement with the IMP. The agreed program calls for drastic cuts in the
level of investments and current expenditures, which have severely affected MCW:
its personnel has been cut from 2,500 to about 1,300 and maintenance staff from
1,400 to under 800. The level of investment of MCW for FY91/92 has been reduced
from about $B40 million to about $B30 million (of which about $B26 million is for
the road sector) and this reduced level will have to be maintained for the
following fiscal year. All these measures bring to the fore the need to increase
the efficiency of available resources and define properly the level of service
and size of the road network. The proposed project allows the GOB to carry out
the required periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works while adapting to
reduced levels of investment and staff. The emphasis on periodic maintenance
will maximize savings in vehicle operating costs, most of which are in foreign
exchange.
4.3         The Bank's involvement will bring about a solution to two other
inefficiencies:  road maintenance strategies that do not vary in accordance with
traffic level and Transport Board operations which continue to incur heavy
financial losses.  The proposed project includes a study of the size of the
network and agreement on optimal maintenance policies for the remaining roads
based on their condition and traffic levels. Second, the Bank's participation
in the project will allow monitoring of an action plan to reduce to a minimum the
Government's subsidy for passenger transport and transfer most or all of the
functions of the publicly-owned Transport Board to the private sector. Finally,
the project will result in better planning procedures through the introduction
of a new computerized accounting system, and regular updating of the Five-Year
Investment Plan and the Four-Year Road Maintenance Plan.
B. Proiect Obiectives
4.4         The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)   preserve  the  capital  base  of road  infrastructure  within  the
constraints on capital and current expenditures;
(b)   improve road maintenance planning and practices;
*(c)   reduce investment costs through the transfer of all capital works to
the private sector and explore the feasibility of private sector
participation in routine maintenance;
(d)   improve road safety; and
(e)   help the Government in its efforts to privatize passenger transport
services.



- 16 -
C. Proiect Descrintion
(a) General
4.5         MCW has prepared an acceptable Five-Year 1992/93-1996/97 Investment
Plan (Table 14) designed to derive maximum benefits from the limited resources
available for capital expendituress the plan will be updated annually by December
31. The Bank, in parallel with CDB, will finance most road investments in the
period 1992-96 which are included in MCW's live-Year Road Investment Plan except
for the Traffic Management Project, developed by the IDB, which is expected to
start in PY94/95. Project appraisal has been conducted jointly with CDB and
project conditionality is similar.  Given that the Bank's project is being
negotiated later than CDB's, some additional conditionality is incorporated into
the Bank's loan in the areas of road maintenance, road network rationalization,
privatization of passenger transport servicas and environmental control. CDB's
loan is partly financed (US$7 million out of US$10 million) from the resources
of the CDB V Project (Loan 3200-CRG). Disbursements of funds from the CDB loan
have been made conditional on the Bank loan becoming effective.
(b)   Road Rehabilitation
4.6         The Bank will finance the rehabilitation and improvement of Highway
6 in two sections: Searles to Six Roads (6.1 km) and Collymore Rock-Villa Road
(0.7 km). A brief description of these two sub-projects is given in Table 15.
The proposed CDB project would finance the remaining unimproved section of
Highway 2A (7.7 km) and two roads which feed traffic into Highway 2A (Clermont
Rd. and Canewood Rd., approximately 1.4 km and 1.3 km long, respectively).
Together, these sub-projects involve about 18 km and represent all rehabilitation
needs of the road network for the foreseeable future, except for urban traffic
management which will be the target of an IDB operation.
4.7         The rehabilitation works financed by the Bank include repavement,
widening of the carriageway to 7 m, improvement of drainage and construction of
road shoulders. The section of Collymore Rock also includes removal of rock
which presents safety hazards and improving the visibility at two intersections
which carry traffic of 21,000 vehicles per day. The total base cost of the road
rehabilitation civil works included in the Bank's loan is about US$2.4 million,
of which the Bank will finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of about
US$1.3 million (55Z of total cost). MCW has completed all engineering studies
and the final designs for these works.
(c)   Road Safetv
4.8         The  road  safety  component  consists  of  improving  five  road
intersections with substantial traffic and poor accident records. The list of
selected intersections and details on their features and proposed works are given
in Table  16.   The existing designs of these intersections are severely
restrictive in terms of capacity because of an inadequate number of lanes, snort
curve radius, and poor sight distances, aggravated in some cases by obstacles
that impair visibility, such as voluminous rocks and stone wvall. Furthermore,
these narrow roads are restricted by heavy pedestrian traffic, which shares the
carriageway with vehicle traffic due to the lack of sidewalks and shoulders. The
proposed works include construction of separate turning lanes, sidewalks, some
drainage work, removal of existing obstacles which affect sight distance and



- 17 -
installation of traffic lights in two cases. The sub-projects included under the
oafety program have been identified by MCW based on existing traffic and accident
data, and preliminary designs were prepared to evaluate the effectiveness of
alternative solutions. MCW already completed the final engineering designs for
the five sub-projects. The total base cost of the road safety component is about
US$2.1 million, of which the Bank will finance US$1.1 million (551 of total
cost).
(d) Overlay Program
4.9         One  of  the main  objectives  of  the  proposed  project  is  the
preservation of adequate standards on the existing primary and secondary road
networks. Hence, the project includes a comprehensive overlay program to raise
standards and prevent the deterioration of the existing network. About 250 km
of primary and secondary roads (approximately 42% of the main network) are now
in fair condition, and almost 60 km (about 10) in poor condition; a substantial
portion of this network carries sufficient traffic to warrant ah overlay. Timely
intervention is particularly important in the case of roads in fair condition,
since the repairs needed once the pavement starts to break up are several times
more costly. The overlay program has been designed to reduce the backlog in
periodic maintenance to a level consistent with MCW's ability to carry out the
required works using its own resources. To achieve this objective within a f our-
year period, the overlay program to be financed by the Bank covers approximately
160 km of high-priority roads. The list of the selected road links included in
the proposed project is given in Table 17. These works were divided into four
groups, each representing an annual overlay program of 35-40 km to be carried out
by contractors. To complete the program, MCW will perform overlays of about 25
km each year using its own resources; MCW's technical and operational capacities
are adequate for the job.
4.10        MCW identified the road links to be overlaid based on pavement
condition surveys, which included measuring surface roughness, traffic data and
economic evaluation. The distribution among years was determined on the basis
of the relative economic benefits of the projects. The total base cost of the
overlay component is US$15.2 million, of which the Bank will finance the
estimated foreign exchange cost of about US$9.9 million (651 of total cost).
Agreement was reached during negotiations that MCW will carry out the overlay
works according to the list agreed with the Bank. Furthermore, MCW will submit
to the Bank the final engineering for the overlay works for each fiscal year,
starting with PY93/94, by October 31 of the preceding PY. In addition, MCW will
carry out overlays of at least 25 km of roads using its own resources; by
December 31 of each year, starting in 1992, MCW will furnish to the Bank for
approval the list of road links selected for overlay through force-account during
the following fiscal year based on an economic study. At the completion of the
project, virtually all primary and secondary roads now classified in fair or poor
condition would thus have undergone rehabilitation or overlay.
(e)   Bridas and Culvert Rehabilitation
4.11        The  proposed  project  includes  rehabilitation  of  bridges  and
replacement of culverts which are in poor condition and in risk of collapse.
These works are based on a survey of the condition of all bridges and culverts
throughout the primary and secondary road network.  Three bridges have been
selected for reconstruction because their structural integrity has worsened



- 18 -
considerably. In addition, four culverts will be replaced under the proposed
project due to their state of deterioration and insufficient hydraulic capacity.
Thesa works will include removal of existing structures, construction of new
structures according to appropriate design standards, repaving of short stretches
and in some cases flattening out of the road's vertical alignment. The total
base cost of the bridge and culvert rehabilitation program has been estimated at
US$0.4 million, of which the Bank will finance US$0.2 million (55% of total
cost). The list of eligible structures to ba rehabilitated was agreed upon.
(f)   Pilot Program:  Routine Maintenance by Contract
4.12        MCW has traditionally carried out all routine maintenance work
through force-account. The cost of routine maintenance per km is about US$5,000,
which, though high, is reasonable given the high labor costs in Barbados. The
quality of force-account maintenance has been acceptable. However, there has
never been an attempt to measure the cost and quality of force-account routine
maintenance against similar work carried out by the private sector. To provide
a base for comparison, the project includes a two-year pilot program involving
65 km of roads whose maintenance will be carried out by a private contractor.
The total cost is estimateA at US$0.6 million. Given the high cost of works
carried out by the private sector in Barbados (due to the small size of the
market and the limited number of local contractors), a larger commitment to
privatization of routine maintenance is not warranted at the moment. The mid-
term project review will include an analysis and comparison of the relative
merits of private and public sector execution of routine maintenance. Agreement
was reached during negotiation that ACW will submit by December 31, 1994 a
proposed strategy for private sctor participation in routine maintenance works
based on the pilot program for routine maintenance by contract.
(g)   Equipment
4.13        MCW's road maintenance fleet is composed of 291 units, of which about
29% are more than 15 years old (Annex 1, Table 7). Of the present fleet, 72
units need minor repairs, 53 need rehabilitation or reconstruction, and 64 should
be discarded. Equipment availability, currently about 60Z, has been limited in
the past by the lack of timely provision of spare parts and by the fleet's aging.
MCW's workable fleet needs to be expanded and improved to enable MCW to conduct
its maintenance activities in accordance with the agreed road maintenance plan.
The proposed project provides for replacement of old and costly-to-operate
equipment units and rehabilitation of existing equipment where such
rehabilitation is justified on economic grounds. A portion of this component is
earmarked for purchase of spare parts.
4.14        A total of 112 new units, 31 major units and 81 minor units, will be
acquired through the proposed project at a cost of about US$1.6 million. The
list of equipment to be purchased, including some tools for MCW's workshop is
given in Table 18. In addition to replacing old units, the list also includes
some new equipment which will be purchased to improve the operational efficiency
of maintenance activities; among such items are weed control equipment, small
dump trucks, and asphalt sprayer distributors. About 21 units less than ten
years old, and 9 units between ten arad fifteen years old, will be rehabilitated
in accordance with a program prepared by MCW's workshop (Table 19). Most of the
program will be carried out in MCW's workshop, which is properly equipped and
staffed for this purpose. The project will finance US$0.7 million for purchase



- 19 -
of spare parts needed to carry out this portion of the equipment rehabilitation
program and provide for a stock of essential parts to reduce downtime during
equipment servicing.   Additional equipment rehabilitation will be done by
contract at a total cost of about US$0.1 million.   The equipment whose
rehabilitation is considered too expensive will be disposed of as a part of the
program. Finally, about 150 fare-boxes, costing about US$0.2 million, will be
purchased to enable the Transport Board to convert to a one-person bus operation.
(h)   Institutional ImDrovement
(i)   General
4.15        The project includes financing of a technical assistance program to
improve workshop operations and implement the road maintenance management system
started under the first Bank project.  Also, additional assistance will be
provided in devising short-term measures to reduce operational costs of the
Transport Board. Furthermore, studies will be undertaken to design a medium-term
strategy to privatize passenger transport services, optimize maintenance
policies, and mechanize the accounting system of MCW. A training program for MCW
staff in operating areas and in investment evaluation techniques is also
included, as is a retrainiug program for laid-off staff.   Draft terms of
reference for the technical assistance tasks and for all studies were agreed
during negotiations. The institutional improvement program has a total estimated
cost of US$2.0 million.
(ii) Technical Assistance
a. Road Maintenance and Equipment Management System
4.16        Efforts undertaken to improve maintenance management under the f Irst
Bank project included 12 man-months over the period 1988-91. To date, a revised
maintenance manual for field operations has been completed, a road condition
inventory implemented, and a computer program established for the development of
annual road maintenance requirements.   In addition, an equipment management
system manual was completed late in 1988 and an inventory of MCW's equipment
fleet was developed. Furthermore, MCW created the Maintenance Management Unit
and strengthened workshop management. The technical assistance program to be
financed by the proposed project will build on such improvements and focus on
field implementation.   In particular, the consultants will assist MCW in:
implementing the road maintenance work programming and reporting systems
throughout the districts and depots; improvirg crew productivity and work quality
through application of performance standards and upgraded work practices; setting
up an accounting system capable of monitoring MCW's expenditures according to
specific tasks, reporting actual equipment cost performance, and providing the
necessary interface between the existing budgetary system and the maintenance and
equipment management systems; and introducing policies and procedures to increase
equipment availability and utilization, reduce equipment downtime, and improve
spare parts management through a computerized inventory sub-system. Terms of
reference for the study are given in Annex 3. The technical assistance would be
carried out over a period of two years by a road maintenance specialist (18
months), an equipment management specialist (12 months), and a cost accounting
specialist (9 months). Agreement was reached during negotiations that these
consultants will be selected by December 31, 1992, and that a road maintenance
system, based on their vork and acceptable to the Bank, will be in place by March



- 20 -
31, 1994. In addition, a local consultant experienced in maintenance management
and computer systems will be recruited to assist the MHU. His terms of reference
are given in Annex 4.
b. Transport Board Operations
4.17        While a medium-term strategy to privatize the operations of the
Transport Board is being studied, thare is a need for expert services in
designing and implementing short-term cost reduction measures to enable the TRB
to minimize its losses, thus reducing the fiscal burden on the Government. Three
months of consulting services will be provided to MCW and TRB under the project
for this purpose.
(iii) Studies
a. Road Network Rationalization Study
4.18        As stated in para. 2.1, the paved road network is Barbados is large
in comparison with other similar countries.  A substantial number of roads
(primarily tertiary and local roads, but also a few secondary roads) are
maintained to a paved standard, although the traffic level, as low as 100
vehicles per day, does not seem to justify such a standard. Also, some roads
with such low level of traffic can be left unmaintained while traffic is diverted
to parallel roads. An analysio should be conducted to find out which roads could
be thus downgraded without high social and economic cost. Furthermore, all paved
roads have in the past been subject to the same routine and periodic maintenance
policy. Maintenance activities on each road need to be re-examined not only in
light of the physical condition but also in terms of traffic level and the
frequency and type of economically justified maintenance policies. The proposed
Road Network Rationalization Study (Annex 5) will examine which roads need to be
left without any maintenance, which ones need to be maintained to less than paved
standard and what maintenance activitiest and in what frequency, are justified
for each road in the remaining road network. Since the results of the study will
have an impact on the Four-Year Road Maintenance Plan, it should be implemented
as quickly as possible.   Agreement was reached during negotiations  that
consultants for the study be selected by December 31, 1992, and that agreement
on a plan of action based on the study should be reached no later than December
31, 1993.
b. Com2uterizsation Studies
4.19        Most of MCW's accounting and administrative systems are manually
operated. This places a severe burden on the production of timely and accurate
managerial reports. MCW intends to introduce a comprehensive computerized system
which will integrate all departments into one information network, thus ensuring
consistency and promptness of data, and has already prepared an elaborate
document specifying the requirements for each sub-system and their integration.
However, for this exercise to be most effective, it should start about six months
after the beginning of the technical assistance for the implementation of the
road maintenance and equipment management system in order for the consultants to
have a lead time to prepare the data base system in these two areas. Therefore,
agreement  was  reached  during  negotiations  that  consultants  for  the
computerization study should be selected by June 30, 1993 and that the
mechanization of MCW accounts be completed by December 31, 1994. Also, MCW has



- 21 -
recently signed a contract for a more limited study of mechanizing the accounting
system of the unit which handles internationally financed projects. This study
will also be financed under the proposed project.
c. Transaort Board Study
4.20        As described in para. 2.34, the European Development Fund has
authorized financing for a study of the rttionalization measures and the
privatization options for the passenger transport services currently provided by
the publicly-owned Transport Board. The terms of reference for the study have
been reviewed by the Bank and are acceptable (Annex 2). While the Bank is not
financing the study, it will be involved through the implementation of its
recommendations. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government
will submit, by July 31, 1993, an action plan to substantially privatize the
operations of the Transport Board, based on the recoimmendations of the Transport
Board Study, and implement such action plan.  Also, the project's mid-term
review, to be conducted in the first quarter of 1994, will focus on the carrying
out of the agreed action plan, and disbursements against overlay works in FY94/95
and beyond will not be approved by the Bank unless there is a satisfactory
progress in this area and the Bank has confirmed it to the Government in writing.
(iv) Training
4.21        The proposed project provides funds for on-site training of MCW staff
in various technical areas.   The program was prepared by MCW based on the
recommendations of consultants engaged under the first Bank-financed project.
First, short courses and on-the-job training will be provided by consultants
engaged through the proposed technical assistance program and by training experts
hired for this purpose. Second, a local consultant, with broad experience in
MCW's maintenance operations, will provide the follow-up training needed to
acquaint staff with data sources and information feedback. Third, the Equipment
Management Division (workshop) will be responsible for managing a training
program for all drivers and operators. This program will cover such items as
proper equipment operation, daily inspection and service requirements, and safety
procedures.   Finally, equipment manufacturers will be requested to provide
training in conjunction with purchases of new equipment.
4.22        The training program will also be carried out off-site through
participation of MCW's key personnel in local courses provided by training
institutions and colleges, international seminars and conferences, overseas
courses and medium-term study programs, etc.  To support MCW's expansion of
computerization, its personnel will be trained in electronic data processing.
The consultants for the road Network Rationalization Study will train staff of
the Maintenance Management unit and the Planning Unit in the use of the Highway
Design and Maintenance Model and related project evaluation techniques.  In
addition, the project will finance a retraining program, when requirnkd, for staff
laid off at MCW and the Transport Board.   The total cost of the training
component, to be financed under the project, is US$0.8 million.



- 22 -
F.    Prolect Costs and Financing
4.23        As already stated, the project finances a component of MCW'a 1992/93-
1996/97 Investment Plan.  The CDB project, which finances another component
(reconstruction of Highway 2A and two related roads), was appraised in
coordination with the Bank, and includes similar conditionality. The investment
plan is detailed in Tables 14 and 20 and summarized below (in US$ million):
IBRD Loan 2432-BAR       0.1      _       _      _       _      0.1
Tertlary Roads-Venezuela    0.9   _       _      _       _      0.9
Proposed Project - IBRD  2.4    11.3      8.0    6.6    4.8   33.1
Proposed Project - CDB   2.1      4.2     3.0    3.3     -     12.6
raffic Management - IDB  -       2.0     3.5    5.0    7.5   18.0
ROads Project.        3.9     2.5     2.5    2.5    5.0   16.4
CW Other Project.        1.9     1.1     1.1    1.1    1.1    6.3
ranaport Board           1.2     -       -      -       -      1.2
4.24        The sub-program to be financd by the Bank and CDB accounts for about
52Z of all investments in the period 1992-96.  The IDB'a Traffic Management
Projeet, due to start in 1994, will account for another 20X. The level of MCW's
investment in FY92193, at US$12.5 million, is substantially below the actual
level of FY91/92 (US$15 million). It increases, however, to an average of about
uS$19 million in the period 1993-969, still below the original budget for PY90/91
of about USS20 million. Furthermore, the annual Govertment of Barbados (GOB)
contribution to the program is to decline over the period from US$13.2 million
in FY91/92 to an average of US$9.3 million in 1992-96. The share of GOB in the
total investment throughout the 1992-96 period is 522.
4.25        The financing plan for the IBRD/CDB sub-program is as follows:
IBRD ProJect        24.0        42.3       66.3       12.0       21.2      33.2l
CDB ProJect          8.0        17.2       25.2        4.0         8.6a    12.6a
a/ Excludes US$1.0 million in interest during construction.



- 23 -
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCING OF PROJECT COSTS
P r o j e c t   C o s t s          P r o j e c t   C o s t s          B a n k
PROJECT COMPONENT                    CBDS million)                      CUSS million)               L o a n
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL          LOCAL    FOREIGN  TOTAL       CUSS mill)  C%)
1. CIVIL WORKS
A. REHABILITATION PROGRAM
- Highway 6: SearLs - Six Roads                1.8      2.3       4.1          0.9       1.1      2.1            1.1    55
- Highway 6: Cotlymore Rock                    0.3      0.4       0.8          0.2      0.2       0.4           0.2    55
Subtotal Rehabilitation Program:               2.2       2.7      4.9          1.1       1.3      2.4            1.3    55
B. SAFETY PROGRAM
- Rendezvous - H'way 7                         0.7      0.8       1.5          0.3       0.4      0.8           0.4    55
- Codrington - Cave HiLl                       0.5      0.6       1.0          0.2       0.3      0.5            0.3    55
- Pine EW - Pine NS                            0.2      0.3       0.5          0.1       0.1      0.3            0.1    55
- Thornbury - H'way 7                          0.3      0.4       0.7          0.2       0.2      0.3            0.2    55
- Rendezvous - Golf CLub Rd.                   0.2       0.2      0.4          0.1       0.1      0.2            0.1    55
Subtotal Safety Program:                       1.9       2.3      4.2          0.9       1.1      2.1            1.1    55
C. OVERLAY PROGRAM
- Package "Al                                  1.9       7.7      9.6          1.0       3.9      4.8            3.9    80
- Package "B"                                  1.7      5.1       6.8          0.8       2.5      3.4            2.5    75
- Package "C"                                  3.6      3.6       7.2          1.8       1.8      3.6            1.8   50
- Package ID'                                  3.5      3.5       6.9          1.7       1.7      3.5            1.7   50
Subtotal Ovorlay Program:                     10.7      19.8     30.4          5.3       9.9     15.2            9.9    65
D. BRIDGES AND CULVERTS                        0.4       0.5      0.8          0.2       0.2      0.4            0.2    55
E. RMBC PILOT PROGRAM                          0.6       0.7      1.3          0.3       0.4      0.6            0.4    55
SUBTOTAL CIVIL WORKS                          15.7      25.9     41.6          7.8      13.0     20.8           13.0    62
ll. LAND ACQUISITION                             2.9      0.0       2.9          1.5       0.0      1.5           0.0      0
111. EQUIPMENT
New Equipment                                  0.0       3.3      3.3          0.0       1.7      1.7            1.7   100
Spare Parts for Rehab. and Maintenance         0.0       1.4      1.4          0.0       0.7      0.7            0.7   100
Rehabilitation by Contract                     0.1       0.2      0.3          0.1       0.1      0.1            0.1    60
Bus Fareboxes                                  0.0       0.3      0.3          0.0       0.2      0.2            0.2   100
SUBTOTAL EQUIPMENT                             0.1       5.1      5.2          0.1       2.6      2.6            2.6    98
IV. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Technical Assistance                           0.0       1.1      1.1          0.0       0.6      0.6            0.6   100
Studies (Rationalization of Road Network)      0.0       0.4      0.4          0.0       0.2      0.2            0.2   100
Studies (Computerization)                      0.0       0.8      0.8          0.0       0.4      0.4            0.4   100
Training - Transport Board                     0.5       0.5      1.0          0.3       0.3      0.5            0.3    50
Training - local MCW                           0.1       0.1      0.2          0.1       0.1      0.1            0.1    50
Training - foreign MCW                         0.0       0.4      0.4          0.0       0.2      0.2            0.2   100
SUBTOTAL INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING           0.6       3.3      3.9          0.3       1.7      2.0            1.7    85
V. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                         1.6      2.6      4.2           0.8      1.3      2.1            1.3    62
S U 8 T 0 T A L                               20.9      36.9     57.8         10.4      18.5     28.9           18.5    64
VI. PRICE CONTINGENCIES                          3.1       5.4      8.5           1.5      2.7      4.2            2.7   63
VII. TOTAL COST                                 24.0      42.3     66.3          12.0     21.2     33.1           21.2   64
Note: Figures in USS may not add up to the total because of rounding.



- 24 -
4.26        The Bank will finance the foreign exchange component of the project
(about 64Z)l the remainder will be financed by GOB. The loan will finance the
foreign exchange component of the rehabilitation and oafety works (55Z), overlay
program (651), and rehabilitation of equipment by contract (60Z). The project
will also finance OOZ of the imported cost of all equipment, 1OOZ of technical
assistance and overseas training and 502 of local training. The project cost by
year is shown in Table 20. The costs reflect end-1991 prices. The preceding
table shows total IBRD project costs by com)onent. Project cost estimates are
based  on:    (i) up-to-date cost estimates  by  local consultants  for all
rehabilitation and safety works; (ii) preliminary engineering estimates for
overlay works; (iii) suppliers' current published prices for equipment and spare
parts; and (iv) prevailing fe6s for individual technical assistance consultants
(US$12,000 per month for expatriate consultants and US$4,000 for local).
Physical contingencies are calculated at 102 of the contract price for all civil
works. These contingencies are estimated at US$2.1 million. Price contingencies
are estimated at 52 p.a. (in US$ equivalent) for the period 1992-96 with an
estimated total cost of US$4.2 million. Agreement should be reached during
negotiations that MCW and the Government will earmark the counterpart funds
needed for the project as follows:  FY92/93 - US$0.5 m4llion; FY93/94 - US$3.2
million; FY94/95 - US$2.4 million; FY95/96 - US$3.4 million; and FY96/97 - US$2.4
million.
G.    Economic Evaluation
(a)   Road Rehabilitation
4.27        For purposes of the economic evaluation, the road network in Barbadoe
has been divided into over 130 links. Each link has been assigned a ranking from
i to 5 for all major physical features (1 being the best) and then assigned an
overall physical condition ranking computed as a weighted average of all
features. A ranking of 1-5 was also assigned to the traffic level (1 being the
lowest) and the traffic and physical condition ranking were combined into one
overall ranking. This made it possible to screen relatively fast all road links
and identify those in bad condition with a high level of traffic. Such roads
were most likely to yield the highest rate of return on rehabilitation works.
4.28        Preliminary engineering studies were prepared for the fifteen roads
which showed the highest priority in the preselection process. These roads were
analyzed using the Highway Design and Maintenance Model developed by the Bank to
find out whether rehabilitation was justified.   All but one section showed
acceptable rates of return (182 to over 1002).  However, most of the roads
proposed  for  rehabilitation  showed  a  similar  level  of  benefits  for  a
substantially lesser investment consisting mainly of an overlay, which allows
cost savings on realignment, drainage works and sidewalk construction where such
works are not considered essential. After further screening incorporating this
option, only five road sections totalling about 18 km were finally selected for
full rehabilitation: Highway 2A and two roads leading to it (Canewood Road and
Clermont Road) totalling 10.4 km, to be financed by CDB, and two sections of
Highway 6, totalling 6.8 km, to be financed by the Bank.
4.29        Highway 2A from Warrans to Lancaster, to be financed by the CDB,
connects the airport road (known as the ABC highway) with the northern parishes
of Barbados.  It serves agricultural (sugar), commercial and tourism purposes.
This work will complete the rehabilitation of Highway 2A, of which 6.2 km, from



- 25 -
Laneaster to Mile and a Quarter, were rehabilitated with Government funds between
July 1988 and September 1991. The proposed rehabilitation will reduce vehicle
operating costs (average daily traffic is 2,000-8,000 vehicle per day) and allow
diversion and time savings for vehicles presently using the congested, parallel,
two-lane Highway 1, where volumes exceed 20,000 vehicles per day in its
approaches to the Bridgetown area. The economic return on the rehabilitation of
Highway 2A and its two access roads, estimated to cost US$10.5 million excluding
contingencies (US$1.0 million per km), is about 17Z.
4.30        The Bank will finance the rehabilitation of two sections of Highway
6  leading  from Bridgetown to the sooth-eastern part of Barbados.   The
rehabilitation cost is B$4.9 million (US$360,000 per km). Traffic on the road
varies from over 20,000 vehicles per day in the Collymore Rock section near
Bridgetown to a range of 1000-2000 in the Searles-Six Roads section.   The
proposed rehabilitation works will improve road roughness, horizontal curvature,
visibility, drainage and pedestrian safety. In tha economic analysis, the HDM
model simulated the road condition and vehicle operation costs in the "with"
scenario (rehabilitation work carried out) and the "without" case consisting only
of routine maintenance and road patching. The rate of economic return is over
901 on the high-traffic section close to Bridgetowr and 201 in the Searles-Six
Roads section; the weighted rate of return is about 281. If rehabilitation cost
increases by 15Z, the return on the two road sections will be 80S and 181,
respectively. The first-year return on the road section which has the lowest
return is still 15.51, well above the opportunity cost of capital. It should be
noted that the above returns exclude benefits related to the safety factor, thus
underestimating the full economic impact of the rehabilitation work.
(b)   Overlay Program
4.31        The primary and secondary road networks were subject to an economic
analysis which determined the priority of an overlay program for all roads in
these networks which are now classified in poor or fair condition. The analysis,
using the 0DM model, compared the benefits to be derived from an overlay (costing
about US$90,000 per km) with those of only routine maintenance (priced at
US$5,200 per km) and patching (US$25.50 per sq.m.).  The cut-off point for
inclusion of roads in the program was an economic return of 201. About 160 km
of high-priority roads qualified utder this criterion, with returns ranging from
201 to well over 1001 (see details in Table 17). The weighted return on all
roads in this program is 581. The projects were arranged in descending order
according to their return on investment and divided into four annual overlay
packages with projects with the highest return in the first year, and those with
the lowest return in the last year. It should be noted that since the projects
carried out in the last year will show further deterioration beyond today's
condition by the time an overlay is carried out, the actual return on the overlay
program will be higher than the above-mentioned returns.
4.32        The cost of overlay works can be eatimated with a high degree of
accuracy because engineering designs are simple, and underestimation of
quantities is not likely. Nevertheless, a sensitivity analysis was conducted for
the economic returns on the overlay projects assuming that investment costs
increase by 151. Under this condition, and taking only today's road condition
into account, no sub-project shows a return of less than 151.



- 26 -
(c) Safety Proaram
4.33        The loan will finance the improvement of five road intersections with
poor accident records. The proposed works will improve visibility, add turning
lanes and construct sidewalks.  The economic benefits from the program will
include savings in human lives, injuries and damage to property, as well as time
savings because of tne reduced road congestion.  The economic benefits from
reduction in injuries and deaths were based on data supplied by insurance
companies and hospitals. As such, they underestimate real benefits because they
do not take fully into account the lost productivity. Time savings which entered
into the calculation related only to work-related trips. The resulting returns,
which also exclude environmental benefits from the reduced congestion, varied
from 142 to 19Z with a weighted average of 171.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Proiect Execution
(a)   General
5.1         The proposed loan would be made to the Ministry of Public Works,
Communications and Transportation (MCW), which will carry out the project through
its Technical Department.  Highway and bridge rehabilitation, overlay works and
the safety program will be carried out by private contractors under the
supervision of the Projects Division within the Technical Department.   The
Workshop Manager will be responsible for carrying out the equipment purchase and
rehabilitation program and the technical assistance will be supervised by the
Chief Technical Officer, Workshop Manager and Chief Financial Officer in the
areas of road maintenance, workshop, and accounting oystem, respectively.  The
studies on Transport Board Operation and Road Network Rationalization will be
monitored by the Chief Planning Officer under the overall supervision of the
Permanent Secretary. The purchase of fare-boxes and employment of a short-term
consultant on cost reduction measures for the Transport Board will be done under
the supervision of the Permanent Secretary. The Project Coordinator (para. 5.3)
will be responsible for putting together all training proposals to be financed
by the project.
5.2         Final  engineering  studies  have  been  completed  for  the  road
rehabilitation works,  bridges and safety works.    By negotiations,  final
engineering  should be available  for the  first-year overlay works.    The
engineering studies were carried out through a combined effort of consultants and
the Project Design Division within the Technical Department. This mechanism for
project preparation operated under the first project and has resulted in reliable
designs and cost estimates. Agreement should be reached during negotiations that
final designs for overlay works in each fiscal year (starting with FY93/94) will
be sent to the Bank by October 31 of the preceding fiscal year.
(b)   Proiect Coordination
5.3         One area which has been relktively weak during execution of the on-
going operation has been day-to-day monitoring of the progress of the project and



- 27 -
coordination among the various organizational units which shared responsibility
for its implementation. Therefore, before negotiations, MCW will nominate a
qualified candidate acceptable to the Bank to serve as Project Coordinator. The
Project Coordinator will be responsible for preparing the quarterly progress
reports, advising management of any issue which may affect project
implementation, organizing monthly meetings of all units concerned with project
execution, resolving issues with contractors and suppliers, overviewing project
accounting, monitoring submissions of disbursement applications, and processing
and reviewing training proposals.
(c)   Road Maintenance
5.4         While  the project does not  finance routine road maintenance,
implementation of a medium-term viable maintenance plan is one of the
cornerstones of the project.   Also, the project's equipment component was
designed in accordance with the annual maintenance requirements. The Four-Year
Road Maintenance Plan for 1992/93-1995/96 has already been prepared by the
Maintenance Management Unit (MMU) with assistance of consultants and Bank staff
and was agreed during negotiations. The plan is based on the private sector
assuming about 60% of all periodic maintenance works and carrying out the pilot
program of routine maintenance by contract.   The MMU will continue to be
responsible for updating the Four-Year Road Maintenance Plan and will be assisted
in this task by consultants under the technical assistance program.   The
execution of the plan will be the responsibility of the Chief Technical Officer.
B.    Procurement
5.5         All civil works contracts exceeding US$1.5 million will be subject
to international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
The threshold for ICB was determined based on the experience with the recent Bank
loan. The proposed project includes five main contracts which fall under ICB:
(a) rehabilitation of Highway 6 from Searles to Six Roads; and (b) four overlay
contracts each covering an annual overlay program. The estimated base cost of
the contracts varies between US$2.1 million and US$4.8 million. Contracts for
civil works costing below US$1.5 million will be subject to local competitive
bidding (LCB) in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. This will include rehabilitation of the Collymore Rock section of Highway
6, rehabilitation of all bridges and culverts, the road safety program and the
pilot program for routine maintenance by contract.  The civil works for the
safety program will be divided into five contraets each covering one intersection
(base cost varying from US$0.2 million to US$0.8 million). Bridge and culvert
works (totalling US$0.4 million) will be contracted in three packages. The total
cost of LCB works is US$4.3 million.   The appraisal mission reviewed LCB
procedures and found them acceptable.   In particular, the procedures allow
bidding by foreign contractors.
5.6         The estimated cost of individual contracts is shown in Table 20. In
line with para. 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's procurement guidelines, MCW will
inform the Bank and obtain its approval before agreeing to any change in any
contract which will raise its cost by more than 202 over the original contract
price. Agreement on the 20% threshold should be reached during negotiations.
In addition, disbursements against the contracts for the overlay program in
FY94/95 and beyond will be subject to satisfactory progress on the implementation
of the action plan for the Transport Board (para. 2.34 and 4.20).



- 28 -
5.7   Equipment will be procured under ICB, except for items not exceeding
US$25,000 and totalling no moro than US$400,000, which will be procured using
shopping on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three
suppliers.    Purchase  of  fare-boxes  (US$200,000)  and  the  contract  for
rehabilitation of equipment (US$100,000) will also be done by shopping among the
limited suppliers (due to equipment specificity) and established workshops,
respectively. Under ICB, suppliers from CARICOM countries, including Barbados,
will be given a margin of preference, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
5.8         All contracts for civil works exceeding US$500,000, all contracts for
procurement of equipment under ICB and the contract for equipment rehabilitation
will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Thus, prior review will involve 90Z
of civil works and about 852 of all equipment. Since the rest of the equipment
is mostly spare parts, this percentage is satisfactory. Prior review will not
cause any delays because MCW already uses the Bank's sample documents as its
standard bidding documents for procurement of goods and works. The use of these
documents will be confirmed during negotiations.
5.9         Consultant services for technical assistance and studies will be
contracted in accordance with Bank guidelines and terms of reference agreed with
the Bank. All contracts for consultants which exceed US$50,000 (902 of the
total) will be subject to prior review. Contracts below this limit will be
subject to post-review on a selected basis. A standard letter of invitation for
consultants and a standard form of a consultant's contract, acceptable to the
Bank, are already in use by MCW and will be confirmed during negotiations.
5 10        The following table shows the distribution of the type of procurement
appropriate for the acquisition of works, goods and services under the project.
Clvll Works          22.2    4.3      _       1.5b/   28.0
(14.1)   (2.4)    ()      -)    (16.5)
Equipment            2.2             0.7cl            2.9
(2.2)    (-)    (0.7)    (-)    (2.9)
Technical Assistance,  _      _      1.3d/   0.9./   2.2
Studies and Training    (-)  (-)    (1.3)   (0.5)   (1.8)
/ 201ti1 1s1 f1 llohi   .
C.   Disbursements
5.11        Disbursements will be made against the following categories of
eligible expenditures: (a) 55Z of total expenditures for road rehabilitation,



- 29 -
safety work. and bridge and culvert rehabilitation; (b) 65Z of the total
expenditures on road overlays (80Z until disbursements reach US$7.4 million and
501 thereafter); (c) 602 of the cost of equipment rehabilitation by contract; (d)
1001 of the CIF cost of imported goods and 901 of expenditures on goods purchased
locally; (e) 1001 of total expenditures on technical assistance, studies and
overseas training and 50Z of the total cost of local training. The allocation
of loan proceeds among the various loan categories is shown in Table 21. While
the overall financing of overlay works during the project period corresponds to
the foreign exchange component (651), the percentage in the first two years has
been increased to 801 to ease the burden on the Government given the present
acute shortage of foreign exchange. (The financing for overlay works in the last
two years is only 501).
5.12        Retroactive financing, up to a total of US$0.2 million for equipment
(fare-boxes for buses) and US$150,000 for consultants (bus operations, road
maintenance and project accounting) is recommended for expenditures made after
March 1, 1992, but before loan signature. These payments ensure continuity of
the technical assistance program started under the first Bank project and provide
urgent short-term assistance to the Transport Board.
5.13        A special account will be established in the Central Bank with an
initial deposit of US$1.7 million, which represents approximately four months of
Bank-financed expenditures. MCW would be entitled to make payments from the
Special Account for the Bank-financed portion of all expenditures. Applications
for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted using statements of
Expenditures (SOE'a) for expenditures under contracts for:  (a) civil works whose
value is the equivalent of US$500,000 or less; (b) expenditures under contracts
for equipment purchase whose value is US$25,000 or less; and (c) expenditures on
consultants whose contract value is the equivalent of US$50,000 or less. Back-up
documentation would be reviewed by supervision missions in the field on a sample
basis. All other withdrawal applications would be fully documented.
5.14        The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan, based on
the assumption that the loan would become effective in the third quarter of 1992,
is shown in Table 22. The estimated profile extends disbursements through March
1997, or approximately 4.5 years. This is about one year less than it took to
disburse the funds allocated for civil works under the first loan. The smaller
share of rehabilitation under the present project and the lack of force-account
capital works will help expedite project execution.
D.    Audits
5.15        Records related to project expenditures will be kept by the Internal
Financial Account System (IPAS), a unit within the Accounting Department of MCW
which was established under the first project. The Project coordinator will
ensure that all bills are promptly sent to IFAS for processing. The Internal
Auditor will provide an additional control point, verifying that all payments are
made against eligible expenditures.
5.16        All accounts under the first loan were audited by private external
auditors. There were some delays in submission of reports but their quality has
been acceptable. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the project
accounts, the Special Account and SOE's will be audited by private external
auditors, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with appropriate accounting



- 30 -
principles, and that audit statements will be submitted no later than five months
after the end of each fiscal year.
E.     Monitoring
5.17           The project will be monitored against the following action program:
October 31, 1992      Complete final engineering for overlay worke for FY93194.
December 31, 1992     Transfer Planning Unit to Technical Department.
Submit list of roads to be overlaid during 1993/94 by force-account.
Select conoultants for road maintenance and workshop improvement.
Select consultants for Road Network Rationalization Study.
Update Five-Year Investment Plan and Four-Year Malntenance Plan.
March 31, 1993        Complete 25 lm of overlay. in FY92/93 using force-account.
June 30, 1993         Select coneultants for the computerization study.
Submit to parliament the amendment to the Quarries Act.
July 31, 1993         Agree on action plan for privatization of public bue transportation.
October 31, 1993      Complete final engineering for overlay-work. for FY94195.
December 31, 1993     Submit lit of roads to be overlaid during 1994/95 by force-account.
Agree on action plan based on the Road Network Rationalization Study.
Update Five-Year Inveatment Pln and Four-Year Maintenance Plan.
March 31, 1994        Complete 25 km of overlay. in FY93/94 using force-account.
Put in place new road maintenance management system.
Submit amendment to, or phase out, the Traneport Levy Act.
October 31, 1994      Complete final engineering for overlay work. for FY95/96
December 31, 1994     Submit strategy for private sector participation in road maintenance.
Complete computerization of MCW9s accounts.
submit list of roads to be overlaid during 1995/96 by force account.
5.18           As part of the monitoring program, MCW will achieve the following
productivity standards by December 31, 1993s
Pothole Paching           Tou of asphalt         5.0        9.0       1.0
Concrete placed
Manual Drain Cleaning     Km Cleaned             0.1        8.0       1.0
Guard Rall Rpazr          Mater Replaced        15.0       10.0       2.0
Manual Weeding            Km Roadside            1.0       12.0       1.0
Culvert Maintenance       Culvert Repaired       1.0        6.2       0.2
Concrete Slipper Repair   Mater Replaced        20.0        7.2       1.2
Resurfacing               Ton of Asphalt       300.0       19.0       10.0
Concrete Placed                                  _
surface Tr=atment         Sq. m. resealed     1000.0       13.0       4.0
5.19           ZCW will submit to the Bank quarterly reports, to be prepared by the
Project   coordinator,   showing:             (a)   progress   on   each   contract   under
implementation; (b) up-to-date project cost estimate by component; (c) status of



- 31 -
loan disbursements against forecast; end (d) actual amount spent in counterpart
funds for each project component against the amount budgeted.  The Project
Coordinator will be responsible for preparation of *ll reports.
5.20        In the first quarter of 1994, the Bank will conduct a mid-term review
with the participation of MCW and the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs.
The review will  covers  physical progress of the project; execution of the
institutional strengthening program; implementation of the Five-Year Investment
Plan and Four-Year Maintenance Plan and their corresponding financing; the status
of computerization of MCW's accounts; and progress on the action plans resulting
from the Transport Board Study and the Road Network Rationalization Study. At
the Bank's request, the Government will adopt the required remedial actions.
F.    Environmental Imnact
5.21        The project itsolf will not have any adverse environmental impact as
most civil works involve only overlays over existing roads.   The two road
sections to be rehabilitated do not involve a major change in alignment or
relocation. On the other hand, the project will reduce traffic congestion, air
pollution, and road accidents. The CDB-financed rehabilitation of a secticn of
Highway 2A involves relocation and changes in alignment; disbursements of that
loan are conditional on agreement on adequate mitigatory measures.
5.22        All civil works contracts signed by MCW include provisions for
cleaning up of construction sites and removal of debris. However, MCW does not
have any staff assigned on a permanent basis for monitoring compliance with these
provisions. Agreement should be reached during negotiations that, as a condition
for loan effectiveness, MCW will appoint an environmental officer within the
Technical Department under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. A suitable
candidate is currently undergoing overseas training in the environmental control
area.
5.23        Environmental monitoring for transport projects at the Government
level is vested in the Environmental Unit of the Ministry of Labor, Consumer
Affairs and the Environment. The unit has four technical officers, all with
training in relevant areas.   The unit is preparing environmental impact
statements on an ad-hoc basis such as the recent study for the Traffic Management
Project being prepared by the IDB.
5.24        The operation of quarries is governed by the Quarries Act of 1967.
The act provides for substantial safeguards to ensure their safe operation.
However, the Act does not provide for similar safeguards against soil erosion,
contamination of underground water or any other environmental hazard. Agreement
should be reached during negotiations that the Government will prepare an
amendment to the Quarries Act to include environmental considerations and submit
it to Parliament no later than June 30, 1993.
G.    Proisct Risk
5.25        The project poses little risk from the technical point of view,
because it involves mainly overlays over existing roads. As stated in paras.
3.1-3.5, execution of the first Bank project has been satisfactory, and did not
raise any major implementation issues. Cooperation with all consultants under
the technical assistance program has been good and MCW has shown strong



- 32 -
commitment to implement the institutional Improvement program.  Some delays
experienced with civil works under the ongoing loan are unlikely to recur because
the proposed project does not include any more force-account capital works, which
were the main reason for the delays.
5.26        The deteriorating macro-economic framework could lead to shortage of
counterpart funds. The project has tried to minimize this risk by agreeing on
an overall investment plan which maintains a viable road conservation and
rehabilitation strategy, while keeping within the substantially lower limits for
capital expenditures.  Furthermore, the project is designed so that its size
could be adjusted downward, if necessary, by reducing the overlay program which
is carried out in four annual packages. In addition, budget difficulties _ould
impact MCW's resources available for road maintenance. The project includes a
redesigned maintenance plan based on the reduced number of staff available and
allocates most periodic maintenance work to private contractors.  However,
additional cuts beyond those already introduced could jeopardize this
equilibrium. Given the recent stand-by agreement with the IMF, the risk of the
GOB having to resort to additional budgetary cuts, is low.
5.27        The Government could encounter political difficulties in implementing
the privatization of the Transport Board operations because of the short-term
employment effect (the TRB employs over 12 of the country's work force). We
believe, however, that the Government is strongly committed to the privatization
strategy.   To encourage the Government to follow through on this comitment,
disbursements against overlay works in FY94/95 and beyond will depend on the
progroas in implementing the privatization scheme.
VI3 AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1         As  conditions of loan effectiveness, MCW will:  (a) appoint the
equipment manager; (b) appoint a workshop accountant; (c) appoint an
environmental officer within the Technical Department under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (paras. 2.23 and 5.22);
6.2         Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a)   Total MCW staff assigned to road maintenance will not exceed 800
employees (para. 2.18).
(b)   MCW will carry out the 1992/93 - 1995/96 Four-Year Road Maintenance
Plan (para. 2.20);
(c)   The Government will provide MCW with US$3.0 million equivalent in
each budget year for road maintonance materials (para. 2.21);
(d)   The Government will implement the plan for reducing the Transport
Board annual cash deficit to US$2 million or less
(e)   The Government will submit, by July 31, 1993, a time-phased action
plan, acceptable to the Bank, based on the result of the Transport
Board Study, to substantially privatize passenger transport services
and implement such action plan (para. 2.34 and 4.20);



- 33 -
(f) The Government, MCW and the Bank will conduct a Mid-Term Project
Review in the first quarter of 1994 which will cover physical
progress  of  the  project,   execution  of  the  institutional
strengthening program, implementation of the live-Year Investment
Plan and Four-Year Maintenance Plan and their corresponding
financing, status of computerization of MCW's accounts, and the
progress on the action plans resulting from the Transport Board
Study and the Road Network Rationalization Study. At the Bank's
request, the Government will adopt, as necessary, remedial actions
(paras. 2.34 and 5.20)t
(g)   the Bank will not disburse against contracts for overlay works in
FY94/95 and beyond, unless it is satisfied with the progress on the
action plan resulting from the Transport Board Study and has
confirmed it to the Government in writing (paras. 2.34 and 4.20);
(h)   the Government will submit to Parliament an amendment to the
Transport Levy Act to permit its revenues to be used for general
Government purposes, or abolish it, by March 31, 1994 (para 2.40);
(i)   MCW will carry out overlay works on at least 25 km of roads in each
fiscal year using its own resources (para. 4.9);
(j)   the Government will carry out the overlay program financed by the
project according to the list agreed with the Bank (para. 4.10);
(k)   the Government will earmark the counterpart funds needed for the
project as follows:   FY92/93, US$0.5 million; FY93/94, US$3.2
million; FY94/95, US$2.4 million; FY95/96, US$3.4 million; and
FY96/97, US$2.4 million (para. 4.26);
(1)   MCW will inform the Bank, and obtain its approval, before agreeing
to any change in a contract which will raise its cost by more than
2OZ over the original contract price (para. 5.6); and
(i)   the Government will submit to Parliament an amended Quarries Act
incorporating environmental considerations by June 30, 1993 (para.
5.24).
6.3         An  action  program will be  agreed with MOnT  to  improve  its
institutional capability, project planning and preparation. It will include the
following actions by MCWs
(a)   Updating the Five-Year Investment Plan and the Four-Year Road
Maintenance Plan by December 31 of each year and submitting them to
the Bank (paras. 2.21 and 4.5);
(b)   Informing the Bank by June 30 of each year of the actual amount
spent on road maintenance in the prior fiscal year and the amount
allocated in the present fiscal year (para. 2.21);
(c)   incorporating the Planning Unit into the Technical Department by
December 31, 1992 (para. 2.35);



- 34 -
(d)   submitting to the Bank by December 31 of each year the list of roads
to be overlaid during the following fiscal year using NCW's own
resources, together with the economic analysis justifying such works
(para. 4.10);
(e)   submitting by December 31,  1994 a strategy for private sector
participation in routine maintenance works, based on the results of
the pilot program for routine maintenance by contract (para. 4.12);
(f)   selecting  the  consultants  for  road  maintenance  and  workshop
improvement by December 31, 1992, and having a road maintenance
plan, based on their work and acceptable to the Bank, in place by
March 31, 1994 (para. 4.16);
(g)   selecting the consultants for the Road Network Rationalization Study
by December 31, 1992, and agreeing with the Bank on a plan of action
based on the study by December 31, 1993 (para. 4.18);
(h)   selecting the consultants for the computerization study by June 30,
1993, and having the mechanized accounting system in place by
December 31, 1994 (para. 4.19);
(i)   completing final engineering for overlay works to be financed by the
Bank in each fiscal year, starting with FY93/94, by October 31 of
the preceding year (para. 5.2); and
(j)   complying with the following productivity indicators by December 31,
1993 (para. 5.18):
Pothole Paching       Ton of asphalt     5.0       9.0     1.0
Concrete placed   _                        l
Manual Drain Cleaning   Km Cleaned        0.1      8.0     1.0
Guard Rail Repair     Meter Replaced     15.0     10.0     2.0
Manual Weeding        Km Roadside         1.0     12.0      1.0
Culvert Maintenance   Culvert Repaired    1.0      6.2     0.2
Concrete Slipper Repair  Meter Replaced  20.0      7.2     1.2
Resurfacing           Ton of Asphalt    300.0     19.0     10.0
.___     Concrete Placed
Surface Treatrent     Sq. m. resealed   1000.0    13.0     4.0
Recommendation
6.4         The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$21.2 million equivalent on the terms and conditions set out in chapters I-VI
of this report.



BABADOS
SEC;OND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHIABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD NETWORK STATISTICS BY ROAD CATEGORY AND DISTRICT (*
DISTRICT           j         PRIMARY ROADS POO            SECONDARY ROADS          j        LOCAL ROADS            j       DEVELOPM4ENT ROIADS              TOTAL DISTRICT
KNAE               TOTAL  GOOD   FAIR  OR          TOTAL  GOOD   FAIR   POOR    TOTAL  GOOD   FAIR   POOR  I TOTAL  GOOD   FAIR   POORI TOTAL   GOUM    FAIR   POOR
North East      (kmn)     81.7   22.6   52.3    6.8    29.4    0.9   19.1    9.4    95.3   23.0   45.7   26.6 1 13.6    9.0    3.8    0.9    219.9   55.5  120.9   43.6
CX)    100.0   27.7   64.0    8.3   100.0    3.1   65.0   32.0   100.0   24.1   48.0   27.9 1100.0   66.1   27.7    6.3     100.0   25.2   55.0   19.8
North West      (kmn)  1  66.3  29.9  22.913.5 162.3  11.6    38.1  12.6 1103.946.3  30.627.1 159.0  47.1  9.022.9                                     29 1.41 134.8  100.5  56.1
(X)  1100.0   45.1   34.6   20.4   100.0   18.6   61.1   20.2   100.0   44.5   29.4   ?6.0   100.0   79.8   15.3    4.9 1100.0   46.3   34.5   19.2
.- ----     - -- -  - - - -  -- - - -  - - -- --.-     - --  - --4-.-I".-           -9.--     - -  - -- - -  - - - --  - - - - -  -- - - - - -  -- -  - - - - --  - - - -  - -- - -  - - - -
SouAth Central    (kmn)  1  61.2   20.2   35.3    5.7 1 35.1    6.0   20.8    8.3 1 97.9   35.9   45.9   16.1 1  14.0    9.4    3.0    1.6   208.1   71.5  104.9   31.7
(X)    100.0   33.0   57.7    9.3 1 100.0   17.1   59.2   23.7   100.0   36.7   46.9   16.4   100.0   67.4   21.1   11.5 j100.0   34.4   50.4   15.2
--.---+- -.                            ..-.-- --+               ..-- - - -- - - --.    .4- -.--.-- -.                  .   4..4---..-- - - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - --- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -
St. Philip      (kmn)1  35.3   22.2   13.1         0.j  21.7   13.8    7.9    0.0   69.9   34.9   26.5    8.6 j 57.2   45.4    8.3    3.5 1  184.1  116.3  '55.8   12.1
(X    I 100.0   62.9   37.1    D0.0 I 100.0   63.6   36.         00 100.0   49.9   37.8   12.2   100.0   79.4   14.5    6.1    100.0   63.2   30.3    6.5
-- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - ---4--  - -- - -  -- - - --  - --   -  -I.-   -I   -- - -  -- - -
Christ Church    (kin)  1 67.1   47.6   18.5    1.1 1  24.9   15.5    9.4    0.00 1 74.9   39.2   27.2    8.5 1 122.2   70. 0   45.5    6.8    289.0  172.2  100.5   16.3
CX)  I100.0   70.9   27.5    1.6   100.0   62.4   37.6    0.0   100.0   52.4   36.3   11.3   100.0   57.2   37.2    5.5 1100.0   59.6   34.8    5.6
.--  - - - -  - -- - -     9-                              4.-- - - - - - -- - - -  - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -
St. Michael Worth  (kin)     50.4   40.7    9.7    0.0    28.2   22.9    4.3            1.   125.0   90.1   26.7    8.2 1 25.5   18.8    5.7    1.1 1 229.0  172.5   46.3   10.3
C)I100.0   80.8   19.2    00 1.0 83 151                      3.6  100.0   72.1   21.4    6.6 j100.0   73.5   22.2    4.3    100.0   75.3   20.2    4.5
-- - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - --+*-   -- -  - -- - -  -- - - --  - - -- --.-    - -
St. MichaeL South  (kmn)     18.7   18.3    0.4    0.0 1  14.0   13.1    1.0    0.00 1 79.4   71.8    5.9    1.8   16.1   13.6    2.6    0.0    128.2  116.7    9.7    1.8                        c,
MX    100.0   98.1    1.9    0 .0   100.0   93.2    6.8    0.0   100.0   90.4    7.4    2.2   100.0   84.2   15.8    0.0 I100.0   91.1    7.6    1.4                        J
   .--                                                                                -------------------------.-~~~~------------
ITOTAL NETWOR       (kin)    380.6  201.4  152.1   27.1  215.4   83.8  100.4   31.3   646.1  341.2  208.4   96.6   307.5  213.1   77.7   16.7 11,54.9.6  839.4  538.5  171.7
C)  100.0   52.9   40.       71 100.0   38.9   46.6   14.5   100.0   52.8   32.2   15.0   100.0   69.3   25.3    5.4 I100.0   54.2   34.7   11.1 
NOTES:
()Paved roads onty; unipaved roads are negligible (13.15 kmn).
Funkctionat classification:
-Primary roads    :roads which radiate from Bridgetown to various parishes.
-Secondary roads : roads joining two primary roads.
-Locat roads        : roads which initiate and end within a parish.
-Developnient roads: roads providing acces to housing developments.
0-
0'



- 36 -
Wale- 2
BARBADOS
Second Road Naintenance and Rehabilitation Proiect
Road Capital Expenditures 1985/86 - 1990/91 a/
($B million)
Estimate
1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91
Northern Access Road             0.2        8.6      12.9        0.6       2.0        0.5
Airport Road                     6.6       21.1      17.2       19.6       3.5        1.0
Highway Rehabilitation           4.5        5.0       6.4       13.3       8.8       13.1
Tenantry & Subsidiary Roads      4.9        1.7       0.4        1.3       8.7        7.6
Bridges & Drainage               0.8        1.6       0.8        1.0       3.1        1.6
Traffic Management               0.9        1.4       0.3        0.2       1.2        1.0
Vehicles and Equipment           1.0        0.8       2.0        1.1       2.1        0.2
Project Administration           1.4        1.5       1.5        1.3       1.3        1.3
Bridgetown Development           0.9        1.6       0.5        0.2       0.6        0.8
Scotland District                -          -         -          -         -          4.0
Other                            0.8        0.3       0.4        -         0.2        0.1
Total                        22.0       43.6      42.4       38.6      31.5       31.2
_/ Fiscal Year ending March 31.
Source: Barbados Budget Estimates, various years.



BARBADOS
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Proiect
CaDital and Current ExDenditures in the Road Sector
($B million)
Capital Expenditures                             Current Expenditures
of 2-                                                of 2
Total  Public    Road                           Total       Public     Road
Year        McW        TRBa/  Road   Sector    in total    MCW         TRB     Road        Sector     in total
1984-85     12.2       0.6     12.8    147.6       8.7      43.1     10.8      53.9       595.4        9.1
1985-86     22.0       0.5     22.5    146.1      15.4      48.5     14.0      62.5       663.1        9.4
1986-87     43.6       -       43.6    165.1      26.4      48.0      12.4     60.4       685.2        8.8
1987-88     42.4       0.1     42.5    191.3      22.2      55.0     22.0      77.0       817.8        9.4
1988-89     38.6       0.2     38.8    222.5       17.4     54.2      12.2     66.4       857.9        7.7
1989-90     31.5       5.8     37.3    202.6      18.4      53.4     10.0      63.4       1000.0       6.3
1990-91     31.2       6.7     37.9    231.0      16.4      55.4     12.0      67.4       1050.5       6.4
1991/92b/   35.0       4.8     39.8    218.4       18.2     57.3      10.0     67.3       1129.2       6.0
a/ Transport Board
b/ Estimate
Source:  Barbados Budget Estimates, various years.



BARBADOS
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Prolect
Port Carto Movements
Inward Cargo                                                                            Outward Carto
Central Cargo              Cold Storase                                                  General Carao                          Crand
Year        Breakbulk       Containers    Dreakbulk   Containers    Other             Total             Breakbulk   Containers    Total            Total
1986        138,627         256,211          4,379        20,250       15,429        434,896              3,822       37,353        41,175        476,071
1987        118,277         289,168          5,744        22,660       11,850        447,699              3,754       41,435        45,189        492,888
1988        114,593         316,505          6,282        21,786       12,436        471,602              5,838       52,953        58,791        530,393
1989        128,475         363,521         4,870         26,133        :,223        530,222              4,285       67,273        71,558        601,780
1990        115,014         360,082         6,402         21,984       10,890        514,372              3,492       75,327        78,819        593,191
Shive Visiting Deep Water Port
Year        Tankers         Carao          Cruise       molasses       Sugar          Others        Total
1986         106             751            292           n.a.          n.a.          298           1,447
1987          89             725           414            n.a.          n.a.          218           1,446
1988          81             684           455            n.a.          n.a.            93          1,313
1989          60             709           497            n.a.          n.a.           64           1,330
1990          45             702            520            16            5             133          1,421
Source: Barbados Port Authority.



- 39 -
Table 5
BARBADOS
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Proiect
AirDort Traffic Statistics
1988        1989    2 change   1990    2 change
in 1989            in 1990
Passenger Traffic
Scheduled Passengers-Departing    542,098      536,492    -1.0    550,660       2.6
Scheduled Passengers-Arriving      536,832     532,340    -0.8    568,030       6.7
Scheduled Passengers-Transit       377,934     328,057   -13.2    275,149   -16.1
Total Scheduled Passengers   1,456,864   1,3969889    -4.1  1,393,839    -0.2
Non-Scheduled Passengers           194,895     263,438    35.2    211,289   -19.8
Total Passengers             1,651,759   1,660,327      0.5  1,605,128    -3.3
Cargo Traffic (tons)
Scheduled Freight-Loaded             n.a         3,254      n.a      3,874    19.0
Scheduled Freight-Unloaded           n.a          4,845     n.a      5,648    16.6
Total Scheduled Freight            6,966       8,099    16.3       9.522    17.6
Non-Scheduled Freight                7,356        6,439     8.8      5,478   -14.9
Total Freight                   14,322      14,538      1.5     15,000      3.2
Aircraft Movements
Scheduled                           24,447      24,470      0.1     23,861    -2.5
Non-scheduled                        7,561        7,908     4.6      9,194    16.3
Other                                2,576        2,761     7.2      2,660    -3.7
Total                           p4,584      35,139      1.6     35,715      1.6
Source:  Statistics Unit, Division of International Transport, MCW.



"s RtOAD MAIWUI "A ftfo F11902160
trrem          CW       n rtTotl g                                                                                                         I tlr   twork        *  1.Ss.4 t
Reed. wader Routine 8(itoooPerMCO  I  3349.6 km                                                                                                    loads under, Psriodi  UsI... Wret...    0.0 in
I'l epbalt ce         t     s         a   197.3 in                                                                                                 (a) Oerlay  "rmegre                   *    33.3 km
tb) Aphalt   s c   treat_o nt r pamte.   332.3 tn                                                   ek) Raal Program                                                           F                34.7 In
rxu nrt91>norf -n  m    tisr                                                     MfUl    er-rIT cms .T  AccrOro
... ....................... .......                             mu----------------- --.-. 
ACTiVIT          miLl &ccMpIM             m anY . qUmnTiT  I Qm    cam  !PN. I              E    . TOTAL  IMM-L            AW      VI      r   TrTA      I =1. MT cm!  1AL.                cmS
--i ---          00.Om--o routs y-   WIT               qunt  MS          5)   (50o$)           (5(W 0is)  I  10$)-    (50        (31$)     (50$4)    IQ1SMMIT  (5$) ----0C)    I  (5$)
8010 VOt sale I6ethic            3.0 tern     3.019 p.la.in    *1,030   813,342 .260    81.7   91.3   $6.0  M0.2   1.720.128  1.035.133    633.152   3.303,413             475    344.5    164.603    3,330.015
1020 Rtgradiag Unpaved Shoulder   1.0 km          i a3 ud.el.n      42       Is    13    54.0   471.6   40e.0  930.6         n.002         .4 0       31357    81.3358       29  1.093.2      31.703       44.062
8010 Patching Paved Shoulders     1.0 IIN         so p.abl.ka       39       39     39    433.2  437.6   363.0  1304.48      37.733     11.048      010.00      46.3008                -           -       4.9
040 JoInt & Crack  Sealn      400.0 Itt      3a099   16.i.   165 443  151.356    403       0.6     0.6     1.0     2 6     121.017    129.005    161356      * 411.435    4.081    2.5      11.525      *4203
1010 Cold lIa Prod4ctio          6.0 0        3099 v.l".k       6.380    6.360  8,603      So.7   n5.0   39.0  133.7    374.3*3    37640    240 020           808.75                  _           _       O  Z75
1110 Drain Cleaning  an1al        0.1 IN         962 dlitch  m     313       91    910       0.0  4163.4  2600.0  6716.4           0    37h.869   2264800      615.4S0       23  7,777 .     171.184      706358
1120 Drain Clsains llacbaical    2.0  m          805 ditce  In     707      641    321      0.0   U08 1  320.0  504.1              0    120.559    205.120     325.647       66    S84.0      36.544      364.223
1330 Culvert Claslag              2.0 each     1.162 tuber         578      833    411       0.0  104.0  245.3  429.2              0    153 2t4   204 293      3575357       45    493.6      223214      373.71*
1240 wall Cleanltn                3. 8.*3      2 376 aumber   I   09        480    160       0.0   83.3   136.3  221.5             0    41 O3       635 ,43     06.474       Ii    213.1       2.606      800.36o
310 Traffic Big. Ealagaence      4.0 each     9.336. mace       8. 196    1.0    29         66 3).1. 831                     3,336    130,787           0     103.073       26   704.1        3.308      196.30
1220 tradfiC $Sig  oVAetLaIeue   12.0 eah      0.336 mvher        10196    3.170  98      132.8   26.6    I2.0   200.7    177.934        31134      25.7401    240                 250.5       6.312      24131
1230 Guard Sali Repair.          15.0 1..         05 srin a      0.863    8.722   388       6.7    36.2    24.0   66.06       5 176   31.1431      202 328     382, 18      141     76.7      10.818      591.726
1240 FaIntin4 Center  i           4.0 l.a        143 pin            6       61      is   750.0  101.3   70.0  921.3          4.57S0      6.176      4.270     35.106         -        -           -       56.196
1330 S tcial o  at lIarig         6.0 each     I200"  _mber        GIS      792    112      62.     79.1   43.0   IU4.6       49.500    62.616    34.056       146.172       21   240.4        5.52C      15 .100
1310 'dedg 1ua                    1.0 in        S96 raide. I   4.484    4.441  4,441         0.0  603.5  204.5  605.0              0  2.680.144   00 18.8    3.306.325       43   829.2       30.956    3. 20. 2"         4-
a32  "deeigMcaia                  6.0 In       3.986 relde.ka   2.331    23.13    307        0.0    33.0   48.5   68.6             0     78.687    *16.871     194.830      860     94.0      13.790     2110.631  
I   Tr. trI n  I R                1.0 no.         13 d4potled       84       04    64       0.0  390.3  32.3  126.6                0     33.331     21.861      61,215        -        -           -       63.216
G40 S     .  iteac                0.2 each        00 mher           65       6s    325    134.3  864.32   32.0  8860.3         0.70    508,624        .360     120.034                                    120.934
1420 Culert lainteeance           1.0 each    1.62 maber        1,592    1.353  1 5133     33   334.8   32.0  443.1          46.300    I1.,.10     70.76          69              s.          0.06       709,0
1430 Repair of Cenrate Slipor 20.0 oerb a   1.421 elIp.ih    21,60l  20,396  1.020          10.3   96        .0   38.0    213.130    399.354    163,13        773,660    ,203      43 2      33.00       827.665
8*0 E_r ancy ActIvities          18.0 ada,        83 depoletd    3.340    3820    24         0.    3        46.1   08.             0    163.437 o43.601        107.35       220    1 13.      24.e W      3332.1n
I1U0  m    tacatlg               3.0t o     t, depedt             460      4*9    280      J64   383.35    0.0  168.0        24,433   4o.78             0 o1.1              S 30    200.7     0,034       68s.230
1620 Adminiatratva Actlvitta. Wa.  1dp    3              ""oud    6.0    16,892  2.782  0.0   33.3I    0.0   33.3 I            "000,*          0    800.14 I"-                                  68.864
--------     -------------    - -                         --  -- .     .....         ------------------ -- -------       -----       ----  -   --.--.,-        -----
TOTAL    R e O           tVI  n * M   SAINTZUAUCI                                        2.929.6419  7.552.731  3.460.570  83.090.950 |                      3.537 | M4A6N.481
t7n0 Reurfacng                 380.0 te    I 3 l.rd.o   to 0,2S5   89,3895         64 I8.           3.3     7.0  163.42   29,20.584     67.003    134,003    13,1.453    I)       I-)     2.000.000    3,833,63
8720 Sucface ToeateAen    t      19 .04 11        69 la.rd.in8 *60.26  16938        18       1 .4    0.7    0.2.7I 23.386    824,9335 1.4                      38.78                               -      316,678
810 wall Dlating                    03      I    13 depoed         10I6       0      a    179.6   31.3   40.0  256. I                                    -           -       96   203.3       25,330       28,330
820 Czrata Drain  & Culvertn   J.0 0              8 depotled       480      234      73    802.8  201.5   19.3  423.5         22.902     43,210     26.730      94,922      3s6    463.3    124.734       219.676
1630 Wrerch Drama                 4.0 a           1"3.o              5 444            3 JIS  42.0    69.3   63.4   2.6                                              as3  0   3                             97.105
1840 CaLl. Srueteres              4.0 basit       13  e po tid     213      273      46    280.0   07.4   90.   397.6         3 73       26.381     24,*6      05,33         -                           106.334
t e T A L    r I 9 I e D I C    NAZUW UANCj 3.301.309    304.6O4                                                  345,739   3,031.690                     2.133.804 j   .104,802
T e T A L    ROAD    n* lA I  sT 6e3*      1 C     Ls A r6e23010417  7,3572  3.54.2"  17,123,64m.7 2911.641130.110,89
() JPolrtia of the ilrat contract for overly orsi remaider to icudd la It l993J94.                                                                                                                                       1
a(
0~



sm   mib   forianm atn amzu cn3334
ummrzum  amvnmcs                                 RIAL~~~~~wS  mmQomamz LaUra  n,ii,
ACTIVM                A      Tack sit. Crus   ~~Sand Port.-Painta.-Stgu Guard ISuper Sect. Sm. Art. 3.1. L.B. Oral. Dii  Mo   ITruck SMi Back fot"                lAp   sbTg   an
VAUT A                       A-p.Sm   Igr  C       Trei?oe  vellvo rLead. Art.             vp O.Os.   a    "ar           (qSteer boLoad. CamI"spi pav. Mgm. Back.
~~.  WifI  I It)   (1)1.3)  (.3  (3) "0eg')(610)(6104)   a  H(AS) (df)day;0       (d;4dald7)d          y)I ) (dy  I (day)07)(day)(dy(a)(e)dy(day) day) (day)Ida,
3010 Vmt b3aPatclolf               S.O tme 2.268  11342   36                                                 228      -                -224      -2258  13610   2258-6-                   -(aSa                   
100  eaads  npndsbul       3 .Ohkm     13                                                       -      I     -     -   -13        -s 13             i      Is 3 13 
1030 latchiaginPw gbwaflders.        . lOhe     38    II;     0-                                               38     -     -              38    -   3      234     3 
I040O,i.t* SCzck Samel;,    400.0 Ur*   403              -    -161       -1210                                      403                          -403   1614    403 So         -     -403    -                      -
1030 Cold tax ?radmactiam          6.0 US 1.063    -            423 S38   -             --30 -163                                                     - 212                       16 
IIlObralalaanSngUmal       0.3a       810                                                            910-         -      -       -.  .910   34       I;91
1120 Dri   laigMchncl              2    e      31-         --                  --                  -321-                   -      -"4   32  1  962    321  321  321
130CleiCann                        2.0ec       4371                                                        47-           -      -417  417   144    417    -  417
1340  WalCenn                        .0..3   160-           -      -      --                    -      -      -      -      -      -160  160    480    160  160
120  eii    iaanem                4.0 eac    293                                  293    -                     29      -73                  -    -    585        
12220 rfiSinKaeaia   12.0ec                     984                     39         to 98         1170  -w            go 8 98    30                                9
lZ30    :rIi3eez                    301.    58I                                                    20      581    -      -163    -           871  581   2901    3981-58
1240  asigneLie                    4.01.        Is                         44                                    15         Si              is1  1s      33     is                                          1
1230 Speial Pay i Machige    6.0 ac    13             24                                               32      -   28    -    - -  13         264     13
I310 SeedIng Usui                   3.0 h    441           ----                                              44 2221 2221  44410   2221 2223
32Uedn*g M eania            6.0 h.     387-         ----                                               --56                              -  19      194    18 399       ---                           97 
133  be   rmn     lmsn               .  o.       4         ----                                                8                          168       1431  1232      42
to 8i1:aitmne0. c    35                                 -         -    65  33  33   98             -2- -33 23                         -            63    1300      65
142  Sevr   aneac                    .  ah1333                         1333  767  767  307     -    - -   -    -         1333 15333    -    -    -  301   6132    307      -    -    -
l4303epairadCmcreteSlig 2e 20Okrl220-20032401020 1020  -&   -lli24 67                                                                                      0                  1020
1310~~raeacyActivitiea  l1.0.dey   284-284    -                                        -    -  284    -    - ~~~~~284   2269    284           2  24  -     -    -    -
It toprcI,:: 2..3"                             20                      419  3134419418
163  dinetatyeAciu"i               6.0 aday 2.782                                                       556413128:    :                                                                        :    _ 
-----------  --,----.  .                                      .4-                        ~~~~~~~~~~~- --  : .. .    ..---- -- -- ---
lesasree - 3q.knnt   orR      -ls   arko    111439   37  587 10495,3343 5393  697 S0M  1170 2907  14012 1631  2878 6773 1347 308  50S 8718 101191   $ 677 2913  737 1347 2003    0    0    0  397   13
. . . a . . .        ---.-~~~~~~-    ~   ~         ..  ~-------- ----------
3733eerfen                       n00ot64 649853393                                                                                             6386    534   3Su      -             -       138 4 4               
lllrea eatuant           100.I          30       -     -   7   1134                              8                 - -         79  189  189   1314   3In  189    -    -    -           log13  -        
3830 Sell DiIng           3~~.0.        0
'An" creeDaiei lera..              3.0.         73 no                  160   7331120                           73              224              73   75    373      73                   73
3840 Cables Stcucturaa              6.0 Lea     " k                                                                                   " 46-4                4364    46
-- - -- - - -- - -              - --                          - - - -- - -- -   ------ ~. 4    .   ~   .---          -- -- --  -- -- -- --    - -
nesmm  Reuiemetsfo  Peioic  o      11 9283   71 473  1283    7331120    0    0    0    01338   130         0 224  3133$79  403  770   32141  770189   15    0   73 318  854                   0    0
rneureq Uawaviza te for Total Praran      I30"   107 1060 11780 3416 6533  697 Soso 1170 2907 1A4350 396   2878 6997 1660 3443 347 9548 104403    9441NO 102 12 1347 2079  318  234                n? 38    1
(Noeer of poopleAmita needed per yew)______________________
0 0alpmaim geeurcee are listed.
a)sooln ""ram (amau1).



B-ROS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REBAAILITATICO  PROJECT
ICWJS ROAD NH&1JM2UI    PMM  YWI P13992193
REsoue REUIDWS FOL FORCE ACC T W S
Sumary for all usintensoc districts
(1) LABOR U N    RsS                                                                                                                                  (2) KlTERUlLS REUIREMTS
* -5~~~~    .  e~~na.  a...      .n...........a.........     . ...
L A B 0 B  (a)            g        POG3 HEEDS                    C W ROWD  EAIBTE3ANCE STSaF AD BUDGET    K HUIPNO   BAlANCE (c)                        1 A T  I I A L S                 PRN NEEDS
Job              Unit Cost iTotal Days  Number      COST   I Total Days  Nusber OPERATIOSS  WO11RS5P  I Balane            Cost             -aterial                   Unit  Un1t Cos-        - Quantit - Cost
positie n (eSBDIday3  Rquired  StaffCb)   t(BD$)    Available  Staffib)    (BD$)                     (80$)   I days)       (80)                    Descriptlon                  (BDSjun3  tIUalts)      (80$)
SuperiLsor  (Oper ations)    63.00        34.151        69    904,130       14.980        70      943.740                   629       39,610          Aspbalt Concrete Nix    ton        350.00       30.744  4.611.600
Section Leajer  (Operatiuon)  71.02        3,96        2la    139.270        5.350        25      379.957                 3.389      240,68          Tack Asphalt              litr       0.52      1^'397       55.t46
Senior krzta                   66.98       2.87B        16    192,801        2.782        13      ia6.33D                   (96)      (6,463)         Aspalt Emulson            litr       0.52   1,0,.937    551.164
artIsan                        63.00       6.997        35    440,842       18.832        88  13186.416                  33835       745,574          Cruhed Aggregate           3        24.00       13.780    282.120
Laborer                        48.50    104,4s0       488  5,063,666        97.156       454   4.712,066                 (7,249)   (351,600)          Sand                     .3         30.00        3.417    102.510
Havy Equipmnt Operator         73.02       3,660         8    117.929        1.712         8                 121.586         52        3.658          Cersnt                   bag        10.60        6,515      69.059
Operator                       56.67       5,457        26    309,276        5,992        28                 339.567        535       30,291          Selected Soil - earth   *3           34.00          78       1,092
Igbt Equipment Operator        49.31       3.463        16    170,785        3.210        I5                 358.285       4253)    (12.500)          Timber                   aqft        2.95       37.906   I33 ,23
Driver                         54.32       9.548        45    518,674        9.630        45                 523,102         82        4.428          Sign Post                 .150.00               1170    l17S,!O
-                   *--4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------------------.-------------                                                     Guard Rail and poet       a          20.00        2,904     58.320
TOTAL                      |  150,724       714  7.857.372 I   359,644        746   7,40S.517  1,142,540 1  8.920         693.685          Paint                     galon      60.00         697      41.820
.  _   _  _._ ...                          . . .                -                   -......... __-... _ _--_ ._ _  , ,               Traffic Paint             litre      18.75       5,080      95,250
(a) Only personnel directly lnvolved In road maintenance operetions Is iacluded (operation crew).  Depots managers (7 tecbahlcans I                   Boulders                 .2         36.00        1.820     65,520
and 25 tecbnlciae  11). and supervisors, technician. and worksbop-& a_cbanics la 3(edquaters not included.                                       Gonteatil                 *2          8.00        3,335      8.924
(bI Number of persoas required or available, calculated a*sumlag 214 workLng days per year (rounded oa  district basts)                               .... .. _
(c) N      r balance calcultaded eubstractIng tae total day. required by the progrm froe the total days available In eacb position                           TOTAL COST                                       6.230,947
witlin Nli C anpowrg poeltive figures  nd11cate surplu, whble negative fia brackets) deficit.                                                    --___          _ _._ _-
t'3
(3) EQUIRUIET REQUIRDENTSI
......................                 .    .... ............ .. .           .................... . ........................... l_............... . ..... . ........ .. . . ..... _._ . ... . _.
E q U I P M E b T  t(a)         I     PGRAM NEEDS    INtCW 1161NTENANCE FLEET IMCW ADDITIONAL UNITS I UNITS TO BE RENTED  I               BUDGET REQUIRUE3IS BY ITENS (d)             I  TOTAL
----------------------------------------- *---------------------- t---------------------'----------------------- -.....................------------------------ -------------------------- t  PRODCL
Equipment              W  Cost  I Total Days  No Unlts ITotal Daya  So.Units ITotal Days  No.UnitsITotal Days  Unlt Cost lInsurante Fuel-Lub.   Parts    Repairs   Rentals   I BUDGET
Description             CBDSlday)    Required      (b)      Available      Sb)     lcbeduled       (c)   Iicheduled   (BD$lday)    (BD$)       (8D$)      (BD$)      (9D$)      (BDS)   I   (9DS)
Duep or lisat Truck                 260.00         9,447       52         9.360       52                                            3  20.00    472,350   709,5251.1,05.299   370,046           - 2,456,220
Skid St*er                          400.00         3,302       17         3 060       17 2                                  _       400.00    4',535   242,034   170,66S    34.133                  2 462.347
Alr Compressor  ibmer                96 00         2 078       32         1,080        6         _            _           998       100.00       3,240   145,460    17,280       9,120    99,800      275.500
Back-Bo                             230.50           82         S           540        3         _            _             -      600.00       6,090   1013500    66,584    12.992 9                 387 166
Truck Hydraulic                     177.00            84        1           380        I          _           _             -       480.00       3,008     9,240      4,200        420         _       14 868
Froant End Loader                   25.            1 .347       1         3260         7         -                          -      600.00      3483    16,7          0.6        352            -       3250
Roller                              200.00           3318       2         2340        13         _            _             -      200 00         338    28,620       9,540      3,590         -       40 068
Asphalt Bprayer                      350              5                     30         1--                                           4.0           72       2.28      5,302     2.540          -         ,890
Aspbalt Paver                       189.00            64        1           380        I                                          1 _  -    3,200.00  13600  5.504    4,160        852          -      12,096
Tractor vllosdsr ettactmenge        281.00            49        1         1,080        6         _            _             -       600.00         882     7.350      4.606        93           _      13.769
TMeVer - cpactor                     22.00         2.381       13         2,520       14          _                         -        75,00           0    35,715      9,524      7,143          _      52,392
Oree Tr3ck                          111.50             14       1           180        I         _            _             _       300.00         231       630        650         10         -        1,561
Sp cal Paint Marker                  21.00             17       1           360        2         _            _             -       240.00          34       221         85         17          -         357
Flailr Never                         88.00           397        2           36is                                          237       302.00I        720    36,277      6.660      3,080    22,1354      4873
PuMp                                  15.00           284       2           360        2                                  21 -4000              13,3      1 704    31136          284         -        4.260
-    -   .  '~~~- - - ...... ~~--    .- - - -     . .- - -                               - -     - - -      - -  - - - - - -
TOTAL                         |     20.648      338 1      22,860      127    I    -            - 1    1,215                    1 538,703 1.473.441 13511.431   263.350   121.934 1 3.888,859
'---- S .-.---                  --S~~~~~~~~~..-.-. .....--...--...-B.....-.-...   ..-.
a) Only  quipment units directly involved in field operatlons and required for the m*  ateaance plan a*r lsted.  Oeebr unice needed to support adeiniatrative functions and  upervie maintenance 
op=rtions are not Included.
tb) Nuxer of units computed assuming 180 working days per year.                                                                                                                                                     0'
Cc) Additional units that are lcorporated to  WM's maintenance fleet as a result of  quipmat purchase or rehabilitation.                                                                                            C-A
(d) Budget requirements shown are Ilaited to those units directly involved in field operations, seaded to carry out the maintenance pl              The incidence of other eqipmet unite for maintenance            (D
ervision --suhe as pick ups-., as well as of other workshop's tsigvnette --includin   maintenance of other ministries' ge                  purpose fleets--, should be taken into account in ordar to
dtrmin  NCI-a total workshop budget.                                                                                                                                                                          CO



- 43 -
Table 9
BARBADOS
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Prolect
Vehicle Fleet by Year
Taxis
Private        and                   Vans
Motor       Hired    Buses and    and
Year      Cars       Vehicles   Minibuses  Pickups    Lorries    Otherl/   Total
1970     15,787       1,789        213        1,961      1,574       560      21,884
1975     22,129       1,770        257        1,949      1,560       538      28,203
1980     24,177       2,027        329        3,157       1,373      585      31,648
1985     30,908       1,871        416        2,591      1,732    1,173       38,691
1986     32,869       1,981        440        2,503       1,739    1,426      40,958
1987     34,740       2,266        470        2,755       1,841    1,529      43,601
1988     34,859       2,600        473        2,722       1,817    1,466      43,937
1989     38,711       3,070        446        3,090      2,001    1,441       48,759
1990     38,832       3,089        447        3,077      2,015    1,261       48,721
1/    Includes tractors, trailers, ambulances, jeeps, landrovers, road
construction equipment, etc.
Source: Licensing Authority, MCW.



- 44 -
TUbl* 10
BARBADOS
Se-ond Roead-aintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Price Structure of Petroleum Product.
(as of Septomber 1991)
Gasolina                       Diesel
$B/llter  $USgallons         $B/liter  $US/Gallons
Coat of Product                0.39        0.74              0.34        0.65
Refinery Surcharge             0.04        0.08              0.04        0.08
Refinery Price                 0.43        0.82              0.38        0.73
Consumption Tax                0.72        1.37              0.65         '.23
Ex-refinery Price              1.15        2.19              1.03         1.96
Marketer.' Margin              0.10        0.19              0.10         0.19
Wholesale Price                1.25        2.38              1.13         2.15
Dealers' Margin                0.13        0.24              0.09        0.17
Retail Price                   1.38        2.62              1.22        2.32
Source:   Energy Division, Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs,
October 1991.



- 45 -
Table I11
B A R A A D 0 S
Second Rosd Maintenance and Rehabilitation Proioct
Fuel Consumgtion Tax (1986-1991)
Amount Sold in Barrels                Revenue Collected
p ax       Gasoline       Diesel       Gasoline        Diesel         12101
1986       396,356        205,054    $27,616,383   $12,093,177   39,709,560
1987       427,289        206,046    $29,431,322   $11,988,105   41,419,427
1988       466,029        221,503    $33,335,054   $13,474,028   46,809,082
1989       477,747        239,530    $37,845,524   $16,411,798   54,257,322
1990       493,186        308,902    $39,657,086   $21,533,558   61,190,644
1991j/     501,758        317,561    $49,253,245   $27,761,098   77,014,343
jl Estimate
Sources   Energy Division, Ministry of Finance and Econimic Affairs,
October 1991.



BARBADOS
Second Boad Maintenance and Rehabilitation Prolect
Road User Charges and Cost ($8'0O0)
est.
User Charses                                    1986         1947          1988         1989         1990          1991
Consumptlon Tax-Gasollne                       27,616       29,431       33,335        37,845       39,657        49,253
Consumption Tax-Dlesel                         12.093       11.988        13.474       16.412       21.534        27.761
Subtotal Fuel Tax                          39,709       41,419       46,809       54,257        61,191        77,014
import duties-vehicles and parts               22,712       23,991       27,123        29,163       17,379          n.a.
Conasumption-Tax/Sta.p duty                     8,796        5,781        9,002        19,351       12,895          n.a.
Tunry surcharge                                         -                                -_.&.
Subtotal other taxes                      31,508       29,772       36,125       48,514        30,274        30,000al
Registration fees                              13,084       14,363        14,453       15,835       16,000        17,000
Inspection fee, drivers licenses, etc.          4.366        6.715        6.179        5.675         6.245         6.265
Total Charge                             U667         92.269      103.566      124.281       113.710       130.279
good Costs
Naintenance                                    23,430       26,810        27,374       27,488       29,664        30,414
Capital outlays                                31.183       30.937        38.462       34,291       29.823        27.872
Total costs                               54.                                    61.779        59.487        56.286
Transport Board Subsidy                        12,350       11,442       21,138         15,767       18,706        14,811
Transport Levy Pund                            13,658       21,900       23,700         27,150       26,000        27,500
al Estimate
Sources:    HIMnstry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Industry Trade and Commerce, Energy Divlison.
Budget Estimate, various years.
0



- 47 -
Table 13
BARBADOS
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Pro1ect
Fuel Tao Revenues Generated by Trucks and Buses
(based on an average 1,000 vehicles/day, one-km, road)
Cars     Utility        Buses       Trucks
Z of vehicles in fleet              86.0         6.3          1.0          6.7
Km per vehicle per year           15,000      25,000       73,000       30,000
S of vehicles on road               74.9          9.2         4.2         11.7
Vehicles per day by type             749           92          42          117
Liters per vehicle/km              0.115       0.168        0.248        0.255
Fuel consumption per dayL'          86.1         15.5        10.4         29.8
Fuel consumption per year!'       31,439       5,641        3,802       10,890
Tax per liter1'                     0.72        0.72         0.72         0.72
Tax proceeds by vehicle type1/  22,636         4,062        2,737        7,840
Fuel Tax Trucks/Buses1/                                              10,577
Road Maintenance Cost/km.1'                                          10,400
1/    in liters.
2/    in Barbados Dollar.



sDD --D Iamvau AND lmLaIXU PRO=?
WRU IVISTIOIN PLO 1992193 - 191941? (in 3D$O0)
ITI                 1603M 1D n99l293                                       11199311                 Fl1994195               111995196               111996197             TOTL  Fn-U    ERinnm
C65U               Subprogram                TOTAL.  G0O  EZITAAL TOTAL   GOB  IITmuBII  TOTAL   SOS  fl1M. tOAL   600    WERNI. TOTAL   GO   SUMAL   TOTAL                       Co     VrRA#
1.02 Trc.alcal K _neot Se sr l               1,000  1,000       0    1.000   1.000       *    1.000  1,000       0    1,000   1,000      0   1,000  1,000         0      5.000    5.000         0
2.01 fv  Ctractia 6 Kaintm              Serv.
(a)0e,enre t-f1oanc.d1~Oct*                 0      0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0      0   5,000  3,000         0      5.000    5,000         0
b) ISD (first Red rojeet)                 200    200    200         0       0       0        a      0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0        200      200      2SW
(C) Coo (E1gbey 11                      4,200   1.100   3,100    6.400    SSo   7.650   6.000    650  5.200   6.600  s.600   1.000           0       0       0    25.200      7.900    17300
(4) IN1D (Second good  ojct)            4,750    950  3,800   22,600   6,500  16,100   15,950   4,750  11.200   13.200   6,050  6,350   9,700  4*,b6    4.50    66.200   23.900   42.300
(a) a1n CUsm Ads)                           0      0       0        0       0       0 o  1,00    2,100  4.900   10,000   5.000   7.000   15.000  4.500  10.500    32.000    9.600    2.400
2.02 SubsIdsryoad Cmstr. &  alnt. Sev.   1.600  1,600           0        0       0       0        0      0       0        0       0      0        0       0       0 o     .60     1.600         0
2.03 Aseid. load CoDstr.& Kslut.Sexy.          400    60        0      600    600        0      "a    600        0      600    600       0      600    6o0        0     5.000    i,0mo          0
2.0  bridge Caatn.ctic.                       2s0    250       0        0       0       0        0      0       0        0       0      0        0       a       0        250      250         a
3.02 Sp.cIu Draagodw                           650      0       0      6s50    65        0      85o    650       0      650  o5          a      650    Io         0     4,250    4.250          0  
4.01 Scotland DistrIut Specal VGAs          3,500   3.soo      0    2.000   2,000       0   2,000  2,000        0   2,000  2,000         0   2,000  2.000        0 o   1.50    I,500           0
5.02 major Vrsu & 3,N.uatlm                  3,500   3.500      0   2,000   2.000        0   2,000  2,000        0   2,000   2,000        0   2.000   2.000       0     I1,50     11500         0
6.02 O chre of Onl. PR""l ILpmnt               2       200      0      100    100        0      1oo    1oo       0      10O    100        0      100    100       0        6S0      goo         0
7.02 purcase of Air.Ccaidt <cai                206    200       0      200    200        0      200    200       0      200    200        a     200    200        0      1,000     1.000        a
$.0s Impsq   _t to TWWII ScKanaamm             7e6    700       0      soo                 so0  0  5o   5o 0            50      Soo 5            So0    500       0      2.700    2.700         0
6.04? FerU  sstm,                              25A    250       0        0       0       0        0      0       0        0       o       0        0      0       0        250      250         a
9.02 ?nspetloard                             2.306   2,300       0       0       0       0        0       a      0        0       0       0       0       0       0      2.300    2.500         0
10.0lS_nss  Coectios                            5  so  So5       0        0       0       0        0      0       0        0       0       0        a      0       0        soo     s50          0
To                     24,600  17,90    7,100 i0,250  14,300  23,95    56,200  14,750  21,450 n7.050  22.700  14.25S0  .6,950  21,600  I5,550 , 17.250    91.230   82,200        0
0'



BARBADOS
SECOSD ROAD NAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD REHABILITATION PROGRAM
P k O P O S E D   U O R K                         TOTAL COST  LAND ACUIIS.  INPLBIENTATION
ROAD VANE       LENGTH WIDTH SURFACE  AADT    IRR            PAVEMENT                   ROaD                    SAFETY           CBDS'OOO)   (ODS000)   PROJECT  STARTIN*G
(SECTION)        (km)   (m)   TYPE   (v/day)  (X)         REHABILITATION            IMPROVEMENT              IMPROVEMENT         (USS'OOO)   (US'OCOO)  DURAtIOU   YEAR
Highway 6               6.10   5.50   AC       1,814   17.9 -Surface scarification, -Carriageway widening   -Construction of 2m-           4,105.2     1,161.5    1 year   1993
Seartes-Six Roads                                            structure widening and  from 5.5m to 7m, and    width sidewalks in            2,052.6       580.8
repavement w/ asphalt   construction of 2-      residential areas (15X
concrete (75m= thick.)  width paved shoulders.  of project's length.
-drainage Improvement   -aLignaent feprovement  -removal of obstacles;
(new culverts).          (vertical-horizontal)  -relocation of utility
in critical sections.   poles and retaining
walls and structures.
Highway 6               0.71   6.00   AC    21,099   92.6 -Surface scarification, -Carriagemay widening   -Construction of Zr-              173.4        579.2    1 year   1994
Collty3re Rock-Villa Rd.                                     structure widening and  and construction of       width sidewalks all           386.7       289.6
repevesent w/ asphalt   turning lanes to         along project's length
concrete (75=m thick.)  ioprove road capacity.  (both sides).
-removal of hazardous
rocks and obstacles;
-improving visibility
at two intersections.
TOTAL PROGRAM      6.81                  3,825   29.7                                                           (BDSOO0)             4,878.5     1,740.7
(USSOOOO)            2,439.3        870.4
_==__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



BARBADWS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD SAFETY PROGRAIM
ACCIDENTS   ADT                                                                      WORK COST  LAND ACO. IMPLEMENTATION
INTERSECTION        TOTAL RATE    Cc)      INTERSECTION     EXISTING    IMPROVED       PROPOSED WORK      CDS'OOO) tBDS'l00) DURATION STARTING
(a)   (b)  v/day        FEATURES                                                     (USS'OOO) (USS'OOO)  (years)  (year)
Rendezvous Road - Highway 7   58  12.37  12,842 Type (d):         T           T           -Traffic lights;            1,517        380  1 year mid 1992
Flow control (e): S           TS (lights) -two tuming lanes to         759         190
Turning lanes   : None        Both sides  improve intersection's
Visibility      : Good        Good         capacity;
Sidewalks       : Partial    Complete   -sidewalks on both sides;
Pedest. traffic: Very high                -drainage (major works)
Codrington - Cave Hill        24   6.36  10,333 Type (d):         ST          ST           -Traffic lights;           1,012         579  1 year    1993
(Green Hilt - H'way 2)                          Flow control (e): S           IS (tlights) -two turning Lanes to       506
Turning lanes   : None        Both sides  improve capacity;
Visibility      : Poor, mall  Improved    -reinstate wall;
Sidewalks       : Incomplete  Complete   -sidewalks on both sides
Pedest. traffic: Very high                -drainage (mejor works)
Pine Eli - Pirke IS           18  5.36   9,204 Type td):          X           X            -Road realigisent to         527          17  1 year   1994
Flow control Ce): S           S            improve verticat profile;  263            8
Turning lanes   : None        Yes         -turning lanes on one
Visibility      : Poor, vert. Improved    road (improve capacity);
aligraent.              -sidewalks on both sides
Sidewalks       : None        Complete    (two schools nearby);
Pedest. traffic : Very high               -major drainage morks to
avoid flooding.
Thornbury - Highway 7         32  11.57   7,578 Type (d):         T           T            -Removal of walls to        688           18  1 year   1994
(Thorebury Hill)                                Flow control (e): S           S             improve vIsibility;         344           9
Turning lanes   : None        Yes         -road realigment to
Visibility      : Poor, rock  Improved     eltiminate dangerous
wall & slope             curve;
Sidewalks       : None        Complete   -sidewalks on both sides
Pedest. traffic: Very high                 (shopping center nearby);
Rendezvous Rd.-Golf Club Rd. 32   6.83  12,842 Type ld):           T (2 juict) T           -Visibility improvement      408         210  1 year    1995
Oayrells Rd.-Golf Cltu Rd.                      Flow control (e): S            S            through shifting road       204         105
Turning lanes   : Nne         Yes          aligruent and removing
Visibility      : Poor, wall  Impr,ved     a building and walls;
& building              -sidewalks all along
Sideualks       : None        Complete    road section between
Pedest. traffic : Very high                intersections.
TOTAL PROGRAM                                                                             (DS'O00)            4,152       1,203
(USSOOO5 )         2,076         312                              tD
(a) Number of accidents: Based on MKl Traffic Unit's records (January 1,1989-June 30,1989). (b) Accident rate: number of accidents per vehicle million
(c) Traffic            : Average daily traffic counted on main road.
{d) Junction Type      :  IS1l Staggered 7 junction; IT] I junction; EX] Four cross.
(e) Junction Control   :  COS] Overhead signals; (RI Roundabout; ESI Stop/no control device; [TS) Traffic signals (ltights).



SDCC6D 3OAD MAINTENAC MM8 RUDSILITIOI PROJIB
OVEBAL  PROGRAM (1992193 - 1996197)
LOCATIO          g0m           am5                               SEXI PlCi9                             LST   IIDIII         2 3.08013.  SIT          TOTAL COST         1.R.A.
I  P8S1S         SAn           CLSS                FM                                 TO                 Esa)   (a)   TME        MQI)  (vlday)  (BDS000) (US$S000)        (2)
FIRST TM  PROGRAM (1992193-1993194)
71   I   8TS  VITLAIUE 3AD       S   St. L    Cwrsnc Cap - Bremay Dway H4ibv w7 Junctloa                  0.32   6.00    ST        133    14.976        93          47     100.0
I SIx  HiGHWAY I                P   Spring GardsllBtt lRock           Church St. Junction (U'wy 13)    13.96   7.00    AC        109     9.254      4.723       2.362     100.0
(vie Payne Bays. IiD1tomw   Gibbs. and SpsiShtstown- Main Straet)
72   x   HIGHWAY T               P   Hgbwsy 7 (COitis)                 AK5 NC gs1s (Newton)               2.40   6.00    AC        ISO    4.955         710        355     100.0
74   I  SIGxmY a                 P   lglaay 7 Junction                 lairy Vallay Junction              4.52   5.50   AC-st     III     3.938       1.065        133     100.0
IS  Gl.  UIwID   4               P   Stwart cni  Jiacti               Carmichasl load                     9.25   7.00    AC       130     3.180      1.861        931      100.0
(via Messah Street and Voodlrnd T.-rapiks)
43   a   BlGows I                P   Cottage Plantation                 lbway 3B (Groevs iL1 JunCt.)    1.28   6.00    AC          86     3.000         319        160     100.0
73 E    M     L mu11     1       5   Grams Ranl                        31ghay T (Oistits Dill Juact.)    2.90   5.00    AC         148    1.526        853         427      97.8
SUBIOTAL (1992193-1"3194)t                                                                            34.63                                       9.625       4.813      99.8
SECO5D TM  P*        (18,4193)
19   P   B151 43                 P   balton                            Thicketta                          6.00   6.00    AC       109     1.653       1.080        540      84.1
19   0   BIGBY05 45              P   Ulghy 4 (Tgupiks Junction)    St. Philip border (Balton)             4.50   6.00    AC        109     1.653        810        405      84.5
38   X   IIICEY4  Q              P   BIUgbes  R                        Hglasay P ano  Q Jt'ntlo          0.80   3.00   AC-ST      67      3.000        144         72      81.3
26   n   *GWsi e                 P   Eotbarsal Turing - 1e11o         B'way ElClneood e4. Junction       2.10   6.00    AC         67     2.733        378        169      77.2
42   a    111Gb4 V               P   Highway 4                         Valkers near St.Gorge Church        1.30   5.00   AC-ST     95      2.000        234        117      73.9
35   P   IIISB1 5                P   Rockasll                          Pole DSS 322 4i1e.s)               5.00   9.00    AC         57     3.067        900        450      71.8
52   a   LOCIST KUL1      S          Charls two Bridge                BNitcy 3 (Ltcust Ball Junction)   2.60   6.00   AC-ST        58      2.807        468        234      64.8
17  J   3IG01i3 38               P   St.esorge border anlsbbury Pit. Junction by St.Johm aixed sebool  4.60   6.00  Ac-sT          65     2.384        828         414      36.6
36   P   I3G01A X                P   Pole MD 322 (te.)                 Nigla.y 5                          3.90   7.00    AC        56     2.644       1.062        331      56.0
2   Z   3G131 A                P   lose EIll JuDct. Mile * Qunrter Charles 8 O'Ueal Bighesy             1.40   6.00    AC         72     2.169        232        126      55.3
65   a   IMOUT  UBE1T0           S   JunCt. Eigbhay  I and 25          Orange BIll (lZbway 3S-3)          3.30   6.00    AC        105     1.326        594        297      54.6
SUB5TWA. (199419S1)                                                                                   37.50                                        6.750      3,375      69.0
Perish codes  (A3 St. Sndrsw; 131 St. Peters 101 St. GeorSes IJI St. JohnI in] St. uMebhal 1(0 St. Josephs [PI St. Philip: (SI St. Jaws; (TI St. Tbca; JRI Christ Churec
load clases   IP] Primry road; (S6  Secodery roadt IL) Local road.
Surface types (ACl Asapal coarete ai; (ST? Surfsc  trestuts or other *spbalt pentration roads.
o -4j



-DOAD HUTC  AD BMLUIlTs DPRm?
0VU! PROGRM (1992193 . 1990197)
Locanm           3MB           am *0O                                                                   L3*TU  VIDIB  5031CR 10001.  LT              TOTAL COSmIL
9  9*353         am            CLAS               n13                                 To                 (m      (a)   sM       cqu   (wIde,)  (BWhOO) (nSo  )000) eX
132 TM  u"A"   (1995196)
30  J   menG        a            P   St. Job. mxed Sebool              St. Philip Bordor lmoitte          3.90   5.00   AC-ST      76      ImS          702       #51       52.6
60   T   PS-3                    S   Jumatio  with St. 9bhlp Chreh  Six Cross Roads Juctio                2.72   5.00    ST       194       70e        090         245      06.9
12  A   3IGMW     a              P   Cbspuan Village (by shop)         Bruce Vale                         5.00   6.00    ST       122       840        900        050       03.9
31  P   EIlGt 8                  P   Monrite                           higbay 45 Junctio                  1.40   6.00    ST        S1      1,498       252         126      41.1
41  0   EtUMT W                  P 11     Uay S (Lhr BiUeye)           Bighuy 4 - Contant                 2.00   5.00    AC        64     2,000         M6         to0      40.4
40   J    Urn,,                  P  ZIglmay *B (Tour Cree toeds)    St. George Border (WoodLed)           1.90   5.00    ST        So      1.31         302        III      39.6
tO   3     Amme    ROA           S  RIBInsay 33 (Pour Creo Roads)   Mount Tabor Cb. CJS-6 Junctio)    1.28   6.00    ST            ds     1.200        230         1L5      30.7
00   Z   uIoaaiV                 P  Brt111 a (St. DavId. JimctiLo)  B11ay 6 (mmn-tiyn)                    2.20   6.00    AC        50     2.1S3        403         202     $3.6
0  F   BIA! 13                  P   BIaUe  I (IUteobtold)             Collatesu                          2.t0           AC        65      1,643       46          243      32.0
34   P   31 * n                  P   OGgbhterlend Development          Ieujlbillhuay 5 Jumcti             0.00   5.00    ST        91       979        720         360      30.6
48   J  GU0M    1AD              S   Bl_uap 4                          St. Phlip Border  ear Rena         2.20   5.00    ST        99       80o        396         198      29.0
25  t  11101                     P   P       Sprin                    IIUll by Wni-mart                   2.50   6.50    AC       107       686        0)0         223      29.1
5S   0   Wm  rISCoC.6co          S   upper pars                        Bstae Nosee                        2.0J   5.00    ST       186        00        370        1U7       28.6
55   P  Cn  EUL                  S   Sill View Junction (Ketdal)      BNbguy 40  (Cbureb Villagel         1.20   s.00    ST       146       *00        216         l08      27.2
10   0   3113W  51               P   blvn mllU                         St. Sylvns Village                 2.8o   5.00    ST      19        400       S0         252       25.4
14  a   DM  3     (IB'uay SC)   S   St. Sylvens                        Brce Vale                          1.80   3.50    ST       139       400        324         162      25.4                           >
$03T AL (195186).                                                                                     39.72                                        7.150      3,575      36.3
N10m   t 1 VUA  (10497)
3    I   3m    a                 P  Vildly I - Buty 6                  Lowland1s *  ABC Blghusy           9.40   5.00    AC        U6      1.770      1.692        B46      26.3
S8   0   sum  ML                 5   SugaRll                           La     S BUI 1.40   6.00   AC                              135       400         252        126      24.6
11   A    IGT 2                  P   Druc  Vale (Coggis Bi  J.met.) Greenand grids   arley Bill           4.70   6.00  AC-ST       d1     1.450        846         423      21.7
49   S   1AUIADS                S   B    1)aay 1S (Utreat)            Mls-and-o..qnrter                  2.50   5.50   AC-ST      95        70e       050         22S      23.5
"    a   Remy a                  S   St. dieoolas Abbey                Diamd Corne                        1.80   5.00    ST        98       650         324        162      25.0
51   a    1llCWU11T  ROAD        S   B4itusy 05 (Bthibto  Corset)      Rigilty 4 fMout Coiner)            1.51   5.00   AC-ST      110       500        272        136      22.4
29   J     Cmir    a             P   St. JclmMlslhol                   Rath l BU                          2.70   5.00    ST         8       752        066         243      21.7
45   0   EIAT I                  *   Bigibwy 3 (Ste Slizaeitb)        BSibcny 3 (Bathehabal               2.90   6.00    ST       147       300         522        261      21.2
S   S   SAmi LA                 P 7 B4by I (Boitson)                  Seaview (St.Tbomas Border)         2.90   5.00    AC        63      1.261       522         261      20.7
5   t    120111T IA             P   ldg_avy (Seview)                  St. tbomes Chureb (DighBy 2U)    0.80   3.00    AC          63      1.261        144         72      20.7
67   5   55.5                    S  flUglsy 21                         Indin around - Prospect            3.10   3.00    Sr        109      050         335        279      39.0
9   J   33C011 C                P  B4bgray 21 (Lonaster)             Zndesrour                           1.60   5.00    AC       61       562         2e8        144      19.0
16   0   UCBET 3B                P   Groves Plantation                 St. Jobn Border                    3.10   5.00   AC-ST      61     1.166        558         279      17.0                        I'd
____  _____  __.  ___ .     00
SWUAL R1996197)3                                                                                      39.01                                       6.914       5 457      22.6                        ID .1.
TOTAL. PR20RA  (1992195 - IN96/97)                                                                   150.26                                      30.438      15.219      60.5                         F 
ParIeb codes  11 St. Andr_u  I3I St. Peters (0) St. GCore  (JI St. Johln  pIl St. Mbhal; 101 St. Josephi (P) St. Pbhilip,  Sl St. Jsal (T) St. Thobeas III Cbrist Cburch
Road cLeasa   (P) Primry roads IS] Secondary roads [L) Local road.
Sortac  tips (ACE Aspbalt comrste mix  1ST) Surface treatnt or otber eapbalt pantraiim roa4d.



_  53 -                                     Table  18
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD NAITENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD MAINETENANCE EQUIPMENT TO BE PURCHASED (1992/93-1995/96)
1992/93      1M3/94          1994/95         199M/96         T 0 T A L
EQUIPMENT                  UNIT COST   UNITS  COST   UNITS   COST   UNITS   COST   UNITS   COST   UNITS          COST
DESCRIPTION                    CUSS)     (No)   (USS)   (No)   CUSS)   (No)   (USS)   (No)   (USS)   (No)    CUSS)
MAJOR EQUIPMENT:
Small Duffp Trucks                         30,000                0      7  210,000      -        0      -        0     7    210,000
Small Flat Bed Truck w/lift                27,000                0      *        0      1   27,000               0     1     27,000
Tractor Trailer Unit                      120,000       -        0      1  120,000               0               0     1    120,000
Tree Trfmrers w/5O ft. extensfon          100,000                0      -        0      1  100,000               0     1    100.000
Utility Vehicles                           20,000       6  120,000      -        0      -        0               0     6    120,000
Front End Loaders                          60,000       -        0               0     2  120,000      -         0     2    120,000
Backhoes                                   35.000       -        0      2   70,000      -        0      -        0     2     70,000
Pedestrian Rotlers                         27.000                0              0     3   81.000      3   81,000      6    162,000
Road Sweepers                              70,000                0               0      -        0      1   70,000     1      70,000
Afr coWpressors w/Jack hammers             20,000       -        0      4   80,000               0      -  .     0     4     80,000
........ ...  ....... ........  ... .... .....  ..........   ...    . ....... ........ ...  .........
Subtotal Major EquIpment:                          6  120,000    14  480,000       7  328.000      4  151,000    31  1,079,000
MINOR EQUIPMENT
Mechanical Sprayer                         12,000       -        0      6   72,000      -        0               0     6      72,000
Hand Sprayer                                7,000       -        0      7   49,000      -        0     7   49,000    14      98,000
Compactors   R Raers                        2,500       -        0      7   17,500               0               0     7      17,500
Flair Mowers with Tractors                 30,000                0      -        0      1   30,000     1   30,000      2     60,000
Brush Cutters                                 500       -        0    10    5,000    10    5,000        -        0    20      10,000
PUmPs                                       4,000                0      -        0     4   16,000      4   16,000      8      32,000
Chain Saw and Accesorfes                      500                0      -        0    12    6,000       -        0    12       6,000
Asphalt Cutting Saws                        1,000                0      3    3,000               0               0     3       3,000
Concrete Cutting Saws                       2,000       -        0               0     3    6,000                0     3       6,000
Small Trailers                              6,000                0      6   36,000      -        0               0     6     36,000
...  ..... ......... ...... ........  ... .... .....  ..........   ...    . ....... .... .... ...    .......
Subtotal Minor Equipment                            -        0    39  182,500    30   63,000    12   95,000    81    340,500
..............................................................................................................................
TOTAL EQUIPMENT                        -      6  120,000    53  662,500    37  391,000    16  246,000   112  1,419,500
Spare Parts for new equipment                           -   12,000    -    66,250    -    39,100    -    24,600    -         141,950
Toolts for MCW's workshop                       -           90,000    -          0               0    -          0    -      90,000
TOTAL ROAD MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT AND WORKSHOP TOOLS        222,000    -   728,750    -   430,100    -   270,600    -   1,651,450
uuuuuuuuu......................... u_  ......... u_  .............. u



EMMS RD AM ETuRARcE AND 2        ILITATIGPO PRWC
UIPIHW  RO8EPR AD MMREEILITATIOS PROGRA  (1992-1995)
(Costs In us$)
EQUIPHENT   (a)                o R     C OS     PE      UN         b)            1 9 9 2                   1993                      1 9 9 4                    1995                      T    L
rEPLA~3iDW    TIRE   PAUTS    AROR COWIRACT REIIIUL               PARTS  CiTCi              PARTS  CTRACT             PATS  COTRACT        IT PARUS CONTACT                PARTS   COamRACT
CATEMR          COST        oP    COST    COST    OUTr    COST       D     TlTS COST    IT      iN      COSST DourCOSTcoST Our                           1TS CmST or            MTI 
1US$) tu1   (Ust)  (DSS)            S$)   RtO          (NOo)  US$)  (uS         i         S)   1US$)       (No)  1US$) DS    $)   I (No)   1US$) 1SS$)        Ib (N)  CUSS) 1SO  M)
MaIO EQWlP
Trucks               30.000    R            0r so00o     2 soo                 s   25.000  12.500       10  50.000  25.000          -          _       _               0       0  15    7.000   37 SOO
=..1  7,500   2,500   2.500        0.42                 -       -         -        -       -       10   75.000  25,000       1o   75.000  25,000       20   150e000   50,000
Truck Tractors      120.000    Rehabb.  10,000   5.000             0.13                 -       -        I   10.000       0         -        -       -                                  I    10.000        0
Skid Steers          30.000      epair  I.500                -                                           2    3.000       a         2    3.000       0                 o       o        4     6,000        0
Iab.  2 000   1.000          -     0.10             2.000                 -        -       -        -        -       -                                  1    2.000         0
IBboe0_ - tractors  30000         pair                                              3000   2,500                                                                                        1    3,000 2, _O
Rbab.  3.500   1,750  22500        0.26        -                              10,500   7,500        2    7.000   5.000                                  S    17500   12,500
End Loadrs           60,000    Rpair  9 000              2 Soo                                           3   27,000   7,500                                                             3    27 000    7 soo
=lish.  10,000   5.000   2.500     0.29                                   -        -       -        1 10.00    2.500              10.000   2,500        2   20.000   5.000
Rollers              27.500    =e air  3,500                                            _                2    7.000       a                                   1   3I 500       0        5    10.500        0
b.  4 000   2,000                  0.22                                            -       -             4.000                -        -       -        1    4t0           0
Ar Co.preeeore       15,000    Reir  3,750               2,500                                           2    3,500  5.000          _        _       _        _        _       _        2     *.500    S,000
ehab.  21000   1.000 22,500        0.37        1   2,000   2.5O                    -       -        2   4.0000  5.00                                    5    6,000    7,500
Motorgradr          100,000    Repair  35000                                   _-                                          -        1    ,000        0 _  I.000                                            0
- ---   ---               -        --------        -------- - ---------                                -     ---  -I
Subtotal major  pupsmte                                                      8   ii32,000  17,500     23  111,000  45.000       19  106.000  37,500        12   6.So5  27.500        62   337,500  127.500 s
Pick-upe             15,000 6    pir   1.750                                   2    3.,00       0        5    8.750       0                                            _       .        7   12 250         0
2,000  l.000              0.20        -        -        -        -        -                       00        0             6,00                 7   14000         0
Mehacll sprayer,  15.000    Re,ar   2 0ON                                      1   2.000                                                 4,000       0        A   2,000        0        4      .000        0
2.500  1.000              0.23        -        0       00          10.000         0                 -       - _  _                    -        4    10IO0         0O
Smau z"ipMOMta)         -      Rpsir  2,600                                   20   52,000       0       35   91,000       0       35   91,000        0       25   65,000       0      115  299.000         0
Subtotal Minor Equipments                                             2I    57,500            0       44  109,750       0       41  103,000        0       29   73,.00       o      117  543,250         o
TOTAL PROGRM      (Parts ad work contracted out)                           31   89,500  17.500       67  220,750  45,000       60  209,000  37,500        41  161.500  27,500      I 199   660,750  127.500
Notes,
(a) Equipment categoris aNd  replacemnt costs.  Tn  uite to be repaired or rebiUttated were aLected by Uorkehop' a  anageaent taking iuto account  uipment conditlon. age, estimated rehabilitation
coat and remaining life after rebabiltation. Otbhr eld and coetly-to-operate units of MC    fleet, whose rebabiltation wae not justified on ecowooc ground  and --tbhr fore-- not included In Lhe
prg,rm, wil  be dispoed. Dletributicn of work by year reflects priorit, in equipment nede end io consistent witb Veorkshop    capacity to perform the work.
(b) Proposed work Is classified Into mjor repatrs and full rehbilitation,  Basd an the needs of the unite selected for each equipment category ad type of work, average unit coats ar  estimated for$
11) parts needed for repair and rehabilitation work performd by ISCIs Vorkahop.
(ii) work to be contracted out to private Sarage.
In  Wdditio, labor costs are estiated for all rehabilitation work in order to calculate total rebablitation coat ad rehabiltatioulreplaceaeut coat ratio.
(c) Smll qulpmst iclude  hand sprayer, peps., genrators, dumpers, cain savw, tamrs, brush cutters, etc.



001*01 e   inXls an aoutwTrc PROEC
PROJECT OSTLATs B? 1161 1992191 - 19961911
(la M-3000)
135   am3   151        an       TOTA      33         0 AL        L    835alCTaTAL I                1A33       CU tAL IU1D          0       005 AL I= CB la   133        Go      TOMA
1. Cl%L 5o
A. lIn    AL5T108  F!t9
-Ugb4i1 4a Searls - Us Rog"          55   43                                  1,29        924    20 SS                                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                 1.129       924    2,033
- 11b. *GCo1oyuor. 9.k                 4$    S            _         _      _         _                         21;       14        391                            _        _                   _      213       174      351
"total Um         tst FUatim Progru     5S   43U         0                 0    1,129       924    2.053        21a      114      3So          0        0         0        0         0         0    1,42    I.6       2.43a
*.  5131  1109
.t.nde02... 1   aI1                     Ss   45       163      1S3       30        252      106       4           -                                     -         -        -                   -      41        341      137
Codr4rLs..  CoveUMU                    3   4S  S                                 27t      229      S3         I                                                                                     213       228      3S0
PUM a  - IM as3S   43                       -                                                        43       *I9      263                                               -                  43      3it       263
.TkobDOqv- 3,m1 I                      3   45                                                                  log- -  3  813     144                                                                in  ---  6  I3l    344
a  djodsv  Dayr.L1a-Clot Club 34.  SS   45                                         -        -                            -         -       1         92       204        -         -                 12        92      204
Subto.ta  Softy Progess         U           16S       165      8U3       n00       30       434       9S        334      *13       400       112       92       204        0         0        0    1.*42        934    2.0n6
C. 0356.A1 PROGRAM
. Package  3  ('9                      60   to       600       200  2.000    3.030           63    3.813          -                  -                                      _ -       _    _ -      _ *30        6     4.61$
* *ackae .3e (8                        60   20          -          ,             _         _                 _ 2.31      38       ,snn          *                 - s                          -0ng  2.n 347 t32?1  64  3.313
M akg                           so 3    s0                                                                a           0      0    1.146    5.166    3.313                                                          AS  .18 173  .1
- tack.g. .3  ('3            $0  ~~30 so                         -         -        *                                      -        0         0         a    5.q .729  5.2      3.431    .1392"    8.129    3.431qg
6.48.2 Cv-rl'y UoF     ol               4n   is      600       2n00    5000    3.030        763    3.613   23.251        34      3,313    I.13      5.119   3.3131   1.29    1.1M         3.43 s7 .693   S1.32?         .no220
D.811CS*amCW.1UT                        35   43        3        2         6S       194       IS9      353         -                  -         -        -         -        -         -                230       to       416
S. OCM  r      PIWdAN                   33   43        55       43       t00       III      145       322       122                22          -        -         -        -         -                334       259      641
SUTT   CvL 08K1                                     1.056      409    1,465    5.00    2.425    1.S34    3.13    1.393    4.5             1.900    8.519    3.119    1.29    1.739    3.4S7   12.960    I.Wn   29.196
t1.UAapui iM                               0200                    - o  -              -                            o0     Sl        Sol        0       "I        "1         -                   -        0    1.*n      1.4n
111.  l01llT
m  a      tpm                          *00    0       222        0       222       129        C       1         430        0       430      211         0       all        -         -         -    I.631         0    3.51
ao r anta for tlob"    6,lat.          100    0        00        0        90       221        0       221       209        0       209       162        0       162                                   "I-  -  68  0      69
ababllt.tlm  b  Contract               60   40         It        A        Is        27       58        43        23       is         s        317      11        23        -         -         -       17        S       328
r  Vr.obca.                                           Is0         0      I10         -         -        _         -        -         _         _        _         -        _         _         _      IS0         0      IS0
sUIOTAL r4W                                           412        7       419     9n7          56      99s      662        IS       611      449        11       40         0         0        0    2.333         *1    2.610
IT. ITSTITIAL S615KB1U
T*Cbal" l A.Iataac                     100    0       IS0        0       IS0       220        0       220       IS0        a       IS0         -        -         -        -         -         -      ss0         0      330
od Network satml            s  It,  5                                                   0  -       - 2 0                        -         -        -         -         -                  -           20          0      200
..Mo.   8rlaattow,s wAy                80                                                                        0                 400-                           -                                   400         0       0
s         - Traart  ad                  so  3s. o    o                             1:       230       30          -                                                                                    n o              :So 230  2  300
Tr&   *a- lcal2                          3030           - so                        83        is       30        *3       53        AZ        20       S0        00                                    so - 3    so      500
rta1la    tora*n                       500 0o    a      0 so     0         o0       40        0        6         60        C        60       s0         0        s0                                  o20          0      2C0
Sf1UhALUST1TUP 6L S2gnh mf                           l8o0o       0       log       143      26s    1,010   a 3s           IS       610       70        20       90         0         0        0    1.630       300    5.30
W. NhSC6L CU ENlS                                       106       42       341       300      142       1o        3U0      840       4a9      5          o"       3 in     13    1,7          34      5.296       1 2     080 
S 0 3 S 0 S* 1                                      5,54       431    8.51*    7.350    2.,n    10.238    4.631    2.546    6.91?    2.608    2.9ae           n.399    1.901    8,001    3.403   15.464   IO.4S   29.901             cr
1-4
VI. M1CC C       usTIUOC                                 e1        22      114       149      302      .051      7162      24?    1.008       S62       42       .014      S"        323 U.03    3.69 I.349 I.238 na
WI%. IOTAL   cm                                       I'1  400    2,253    .0S9    3.251   11.310    S,S3               2,332    7.93      3.170    3.442    6.*2    2.427    2,421    4,33   21.153    11.392   33.8i               O
(*  9:oaetage of Bank flnaac*a  foc t41. category varies an 8.1lw.s S0X for 41.9.ra.mats 'AP to a total of 0381.41  ii .111c     Sal30  tbaroafto., .0111 dlaka.aaaaat. xact. U0813.  .111100.



- 56 -                          Table 21
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements by Bank FY
Disbursed in               Cumulative
Quarter        FY           Disbursements    %
1993
September 30, 1992                 1.7 1/                         1.7         8.0
December 31, 1992                  0.1                            1.8         8.5
March 31, 1993                     0.2                            2.0         9.4
June 30, 1993                      0.7        2.7                 2.7        12.9
1994
September 30, 1993                 1.1                            3.9        18.3
December 31, 1993                  1.6                   l        5.4        25.7
March 31, 1594                     1.8                            7.2        34.3
June 30, 1994                      2.0        6.5                 9.2        43.5
1995
September 30, 1994                 2.0                           11.2        53.2
December 31, 1994                  1.9                           13.1        62.1
March 31, 1995                     1.6                           14.7        69.7
June 30, 1995                      1.4        6.9                16.1        76.2
1996
September 30, 1995                 1.2                           17.3        82.0
December 31, 1995                  0.8                           18.2        86.0
March 31, 1996                     0.7                           18.9        89.6
June 30, 1996                      0.7        3.5                19.6        92.7
1997
September 30, 1996                 0.6                           20.2        95.6
December 31, 1996                  0.5                           20.7        98.1
March 31, 1997                     0.4        1.5                21.2       100.0
Assumptions
Loan Signing Date:   July 1992
Loan Effectiveness:  August 1992
Project Completion:  September 30, 1996
Loan Closing Date:   March 31, 1997
1/ Including initial deposit into Special Account.
Source: Mission Estimates.



- 57 -
Table 22
BMADOS
Second Road Maintenance und Rehabilitation Proiect
Allocation of Loan Proceed.
Ci)     Civil Works
(a) Overlays                               9,900,000     80S until
disbursements
reach US$7.4
million;
502 thereafter.
(b) rehabilitation of roads, bridges,      3,100,000      55Z of total.
culverts, road safety works,
and routine maintenance by contract.
(ii)    Hauipment and Sgare Parts
(a) Purchase                               2,500,000    1OOZ of foreign.
902 of local.
(b) Rehabilitation                           100,000      602 of total.
(iii)   Institutional Strenathenina
(a) Technical Assietance and studies       1,100,000    1OOS
(b) Training                                 500,000    lOO  of foreign.
5O0 of local.
(iv)    Unallocated                                4,000,000
Total                                 4.200.000



SECOND ROAD             MM1UTNISCE hID REHABILITATION PROJECT
MM Organization Chart
Minister of PubUe Wor,ks
C icAtioa and Tranuportation
TRART                                                      PUBLIC WORKS                                         IllxI0UhL TRASORT aD
   BOaRD        l                              l          DIVISIOll          |                             |      COIIS DIVlSlDII
Board of Direct*or ]                                        Per uge   Secretars                                          Permanent Secretar|Y
|    General                                                                                                                             Statistiee    Ai
Offiee.        Stf
BARBADOS PM1|    GRAMMEY AAMr
AUTHDRIT!                INTEATIOH&L AIRPORT
Board of Directors
_    _ I_ternal Aditor]     |General  ger                     Airport Mger|
Deputy Permanent Secrtare              -O
-   - -                   ICE -EPARTT - - -EC-ICL DEPAIT   |                                          LICDNSING AUTHORITY |ELECRICAL ESGTn           | IPMO        DEPAR
Integ.  Finantcial   D1A T            N         T C  I    DEA TMN                      D__ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _A___ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _
Accounting System     Chief Finance Officer     Chief Tecbnical Officerl  _Chief Licensing Off.    Chief Electrical EHg.   Chief Persocnnl Off.
L------       -   J -     IAC                                                                     I
ADINISTRAIVE OFF1CEI       PISISG OFFICE
Chief Admini0t.OfficorI         a [fficer
DESIGN SERLVICB            PROJECTS                 OPERATIC0NS    l         ORL>RP
Deputy Chief T. 0.      Deputy Chief T. 0.     Deputy Chief T. 0.      Senior  aechan. Eng.
ARCHITSECTAL|     qProj. Engineer           MATERIALS MI. |         Workhop Manager|
LAWD SRVEYING         cProj. Architect         CIVIL ENGINEER.         Equipment iMnag.|
ENGINEEBIN6  | R                                 BBlLDlN6S                                                                                                         C
-Yd   Struct.                                   U BORATORY| 
-FQNlAITY StlRV W
DISTRICTS
S Mlichael Worth
S Sicbkael South
_ North Irest
C -h r ia eC   r



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 9
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD MAINTENANCE
Maintenance Management
1.        Organizationally, the responsibility for road maintenance operations
is divided between three organizational units: i) the Maintenance Management
Section (MMS), which is in charge of maintenance planning and budgeting, and
evaluating the implementation of such maintenance plans; ii) the seven Road
Districts, which are in charge  f delivering maintenance services through 13
individual depots or maintenance facilities, conveniently distributed throughout
the island; and iii) the Equipment Management Section, which is responsible for
equipment operation.  The first two units are under the Operations Division,
whereas the third operates under the Mechanical Division (Workshop). To enhance
coordination between these units and periodically review progress on the
development of improved procedures for road maintenance management, MCW
designated in 1991 a Technical Committee, which consists of key personnel from
the Operations Division. In addition, two other units also provide support to
maintenance operations: the Materials Management Section within the Operations
Division, which administers contracts for procurement of materials and supplies
needed for all road work carried out by force account, as quarries and asphalt
mix plants are currently owned and operated by the private sector; and the
Workshop Section, within the Mechanical Division, which is in charge of keeping
operational MCW's road maintenance equipment fleet as well as the Government's
general purpose vehicle fleet. The chart of this annex describes the existing
maintenance operations organization down to the maintenance crew level.  In
general, the organizational structure of all these units is adequate. However,
one weakness has been the lack of coordination in the assignment of equipment
units to maintenance operations, which is discussed in detail in para. 14.
2.        The overall budget for maintenance has been generally in line with the
requirements. However, operational efficiency has remained low because of over-
staffing and improper preparation of maintenance budgets and allocations of
resources among uses. Maintenance budgets have reflected in the past significant
resource imbalance; an average of 73% have been allocated to labor-related
expenditures, leaving little for materials (20%) and equipment (7Z).   The
majority of workers are employed in the districts.   Until mid-1991 MCW had
employed on average some 1400 personnel assigned to maintenance operations. In
reality, only about 60% were necessary to deliver maintenance services and the
rest were partially used to carry out capital works. This situation has been
corrected recently under the recent retrenchment program by which maintenance
operations labor force has been reduced to about 776 staff (30 technicians and
746 supervisors and workers). Consequently, with the retrenchment program, MCW
has now completed a tentative reassignment of road maintenance staff among all
categories s-nd is in the process of putting it into effect.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 9
Road Maintenance Personnel
Ex      Weedina    Patching    Drainaxe       Other      Total
1986/87    500         230          210         260        1,200
1987/88    300         375          150         175        1,000
1988/89    200         380          145         275        1,000
1989/90    315         375          105         315        1,110
1990/91    430         370          198         396        1,384
1991/92    430         370          198         396        1,384
1992/93    186         220          110         270         776
3.        Maintenance management is still an area with a clear scope for
improvement. The Highway Maintenance Management System (HMMS) established under
the first Bank project enabled MMS to prepare the Four-Year Maintenance Plan,
which is discussed below. However, this system has not yet been installed in the
field, and hence, not tested by maintenance crews. To carry out the Four-Year
Maintenance Plan, MCW needs to implement appropriate field work scheduling and
feedback reporting procedures, and to improve resource usage and crew
productivity. The proposed project will assist MCW in implementing the HMNMS
throughout all districts and depots by providing a follow-up technical assistance
in road maintenance and a training program to instruct maintenance staff in the
new procedures, under the terms of reference outlined in Annex 3. In addition,
the project will further the technical assistance to MMS under terms of reference
provided in Annex 4.
Four-Year Maintenance Proaram
4.        During project preparation, MCW with assistance of consultants and
IBRD staff, developed a performance maintenance program for fiscal years 1992/93
to 1995/96.   This process started with the completion of the road feature
inventory of the entire highway system, which includes the quantity and specific
condition of each component that needs to be maintained in each link. Then, 29
maintenance activities (23 activities for routine maintenance and 6 for periodic
maintenance) --which provide for the most frequent and relevant tasks needed to
maintain all road features-- were selected.   For each activity,  a work
measurement unit (e.g. tons of patching) was assigned and performance standards
were developed.   These performance standards define the activity, the daily
resource requirements in terms of crew and equipment, the daily accomplishment
expected when using such resources (productivity) and the approved work method.
In addition, MCW established the levels of service to be maintained on each road
component when providing a "full level" of maintenance services. This "full
level" was defined by a set of quantity standards (e.g. tons of patching per
year) --variable according to road class and component condition--, with a
separate standard for each activity. They were fixed by the Technical Committee
based on the existing experience. The annual work quantities were determined for
each maintenance activity by multiplying the quantity standards by the
appropriate inventory quantity. The amount and types of resources required were
determined by using each maintenance activity's performance standard. Annual
costs for each activity were computed by multiplying the resource quantities by
unit costs for labor, equipment and materials as determined by the Maintenance
Management Section (MMS).   The sum of all annual activity costs is the
maintenance budget.



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 9
5.        The maintenance program for fiscal year 1992/93 is given in Table 6
of this report.  The maintenance program and budget were prepared for each
maintenance district.   The total program for the entire road network was
determined as a sum of all district programs. The total maintenance budget, as
calculated, is US$10.4 million, of which US$7.3 million (70.22) is for activities
considered as routine maintenance and US$3.1 million (29.8Z) for periodic
maintenance. Out of the total maintenance program, about US$1.4 million (13.5Z)
will be carried out by contract. The plan includes, under periodic maintenance
activities, extensive overlay and reseal programs (see para. 9 and 10); a portion
of the first contract for overlay works is included in this fiscal year while the
remainder is included in fiscal year 1993/94. Another special feature of this
plan is the inclusion of a Routine-Maintenance-By-Contract Pilot Program,
described in para. 18 of this annex.  This maintenance plan provides for an
adequate level of funding according to the existing network needs, a well
balanced distribution between routine and periodic maintenance, and an increased
participation by private contractors. The plan also gives the total staffing
requirements in each labor category, the number of units of each equipment and
required quantities of all materials. Tables 7 and 8 show the results in terms
of key resource requirements (materials, labor and equipment) by maintenance
activity and budgets required for force account works, respectively.   These
requirements are consistent with the current levels of personnel and equipment
available within MCW.
6.        The programs for the period 1993/94 - 1995/96 were prepared on the
same basis that of the 1992/93. They are also based on the assumption that the
condition of the network will be improved through the implementation of the
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance programs. Tables 1 to 3 in this annex
show the results (in BD$) determined for each fiscal year.  For the sake of
brevity, the tables showing the resource requirements have been omitted. The
total budget for fiscal year 1993/94 is slightly higher than the others; this is
because the first year overlay program is more costly due to the higher cost of
the roads involved (Highway 1). Maintenance by contract is on the average about
302, which is adequate.  MCW will update annually the Four-Year Maintenance
Program based on an update of the road feature inventory and overlay and reseal
programs, and feedback from maintenance program under execution. The cost of the
Four-Year Maintenance Plan is as follows:
Maintenance Programs 1992/93-1995/96
Summary of Costs(&)
Fiscal    Total   S of which    Routine Maintenance    Periodic Maintenance
Year     Budget  by contract   Total  % of total   Total  X of total  O&R programCb)
--------------------.,--------_--------------------------_--_----__----_-----__-----_------------
1992/93    10.4     13.51      7.3     70.2S       3.1    29.82       60.0 km
1993/94    13.1     32.21      7.2     55.0X       5.9    45.0S       96.8 km
1994/95    12.3     28.51      6.9     56.01       5.4    44.01      101.2 km
1995/96    12.2     30.31      6.6     54.01       5.6    46.01       99.2 km
-----------------------_-_-------------------------------------------__------__-----------_------
Total     48.0     26.71      28.0     58.32     20.0    41.71      357.2 km
----_------------------------------------__---___--------___--------__-------__----____--_-------
(*J Cost in US$ million.
(b) Overlay and reseal program, to be carried out by contract and force account. The fourth contract
for overlay works (38.4 km) is not included, as it will be executed in fiscal year 1996/97.



- 62 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 9
7.        The plans provide the necessary inputs to prepare an appropriate
maintenance budget and establish the key resources needed for force account
works. To ensure that they can be implemented, the provision by the Government
to MCW of an annual allocation for materials consistent with the requirements of
the plans constitutes a condition of the proposed project. The current breakdown
among resources is summarized below:
Maintenance Programs 1992/93-1995/96
Breakdown of Force Account Costs by Resources(O
Fiscal    Total Program     Materials        Labor            Equipment
Year    (Force Account)   Total  X of total  Total S of total  Total  X of total
___9________________6.9______3_.1.____34.7__________3._________44.0_________1.9________21.3_______
1992/93     8.9           3.1     34.7      3.9   44.0      1.9     21.3
1993/94     8.8           3.0     34.1      3.9   44.3      1.9     21.6
1994195     8.8           3.0    34.1       3.9   44.3      1.9     21.6
1995/96     8.5           2.8     33.2      3.9   45.8      1.8     21.0
--___-------_------------------_----_----------------------_--------__-------__--------------_---
Total      35.0          11.9    34.1     15.6   44.5      7.5    21.4
Cos50t in US$ mllilon.
Overlay and Reseal Programs
8.        The periodic maintenance program consists mainly of overlay and reseal
works. The overlay and reseal programs have been designed to curb the current
trend by which the length of the road network in fair to poor condition --
requiring periodic maintenance-- is increasing annually. Timely intervention is
particularly important in the case of roads in fair condition, since the repairs
needed once the pavement starts to break up are several times more costly.
(Generally, costs of reconstruction are four times higher than the cost of an
opportune overlay or reseal work).
9.        About 250 km of primary and secondary roads (approximately 42Z of the
main network) are now in fair condition, and almost 60 km (about 102) in poor
condition; a substantial portion of this network carries sufficient traffic to
warrant an overlay.  The overlay program aims at raising the standards and
preventing further deterioration of this part of the network. About 250 km of
primary and secondary roads will be overlaid during project implementation;
overlay works for about 150 km (about 60% of the total) of high priority roads
will be contracted out, while the remaining portion will be carried out by force
account. The proposed project will finance the overlay program to be carried out
by contract, which totals US$15.2 million. This will help MCW reduce the backlog
in periodic maintenance during the four-year period to a level consistent with
its ability to perform the required work using its own resources. The list of
the selected road links included in the proposed project is given in Table 17 of
the report.  These road sections were selected based on pavement condition
surveys, which included measuring pavement distress and surface roughness,
traffic data and economic evaluation. The works were divided into four groups,
each representing an annual overlay program of approximately 40 km to be carried
out by private contractors. The distribution among years was determined on the
basis of the relative economic benefits of the projects. To complete the overlay
program, MCW will perform overlays on about 25 km each year, using its own



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 9
resources; MCW's technical and operational capacity are adequate for the job.
The list of road sections to be overlaid by force account is given in Table 4 of
this annex. This list will be updated annually based on an economic evaluation
and prioritization of overlay needs.
10.       The reseal program will provide preventive maintenance to about 140
km of local and some secondary roads. The work will be carried out entirely by
force account. MCW has the expertise, personnel and equipment to do the job.
The list of road sections selected for the reseal program is given in Table 5 in
this annex.  The distribution among years, approximately 35 km per year, was
determined taking into account road condition and traffic. Again, the list will
be updated annually based on an update of the road and traffic inventories.
Eaui2ment Fleet
11.       MCW's road maintenance fleet is composed of 291 unit, of which 90
(331) are less than seven years old, 102 (38%) between 7 and 15 years old, and
78 (291) more than 15 years old. At present, 174 units (60%) are in service --
although about 72 units (25%) have some problems that will require repair during
the next four-year period--, 53 units (18%) need rehabilitation and 64 (22X)
should be discarded. Table 6 of this annex shows the various equipment groups
and the current condition of each group. This workable fleet is not adequate to
carry out the work by force account defined in the Four-Year Maintenance Program.
New units will be needed to complete or replace old units, and many of the
existing units will need major repairs, rehabilitation or reconstruction during
the four-year period.  Finally, very old units, whose rehabilitation is not
justified on economic grounds will be sold at auction or discarded.
Eauipment Management
12.       The efficiency of the workshop operations has remain low in the past.
Equipment availability, currently about 60%, has been limited by the lack of
timely provision of spare DArts and by the fleet's aging. Some equipment is so
old that spare parts are not commercially available and in order to keep it
operating the workshop has to adapt alternate parts.  In addition, improper
planning of preventive maintenance has caused long down-time.   The proposed
project provides for replacement of old and costly-to-operated equipment units,
which will lessen the workload on the workshop, as well as increase the number
of units in operation.   This will enable the workshop to concentrate on
preventive or planned repairs and perform more rehabilitation type work. Also,
a portion of this component is earmarked for purchase of spare parts to support
MCW's execution of the equipment rehabilitation and repair program.
13.       The existing organizational structure for equipment administration is
adequate and only minor changes are needed. However, accountability of equipment
management and incentives for efficient utilization need to be strengthened. The
implementation under the proposed of project of the Equipment Management System
(EMS) will provide relevant data to monitor workshop performance and equipment
operation. Concurrently, in the future, each equipment unit will prefer&bly be



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 9
assigned to a specific operator who will be responsible for its operation and
day-to-day maintenance.   These operators will be trained under a program
developed by MCW's workshop and to be financed by the proposed project.
14.       Better coordination is needed between the Operations Division and the
Equipment Management Section within the workshop to improve the assignment of
equipment units to maintenance operations. Currently, the Operations Division
has little input into how the equipment fleet is assigned to the districts and
how the preventive maintenance is performed. Frequently, equipment and vehicles
are removed from operation for maintenance servicing by the workshop, are not
replaced with substitute units, and then held out of service for extensive
periods of time, often for repairs that have to wait for spare parts. The lack
of an annual equipment servicing program, of an adequate stock of spare parts,
and of a maintenance work program capable of determining districts' equipment
needs, has contributed largely to this problem. The proposed project will assist
MCW in overcoming these problems by financing the purchase of parts, updating
road maintenance plans and providing a second-phase technical assistance program
geared at improving the efficiency of the workshop.   Coordination between
Operations and the workshop will be enhanced by having the Head of the Equipment
Management Section and representatives of the workshop participate in the
Technical Committee. This committee will meet monthly to review road maintenance
program and the equipment needs originating from such program, and ensure
coordination with the workshop.
Eauipment Acquisition. Rehabilitation and Disposal
15.       Based on the resources needed to carry out the Four-Year Maintenance
Program and the existing condition of the fleet, MCW prepared the equipment
acquisition program given in Table  18 of the report.   This program  is
satisfactory.   It comprises a total of 112 units, consisting of 31 major
equipment units and 81 minor equipment pieces, which will be purchased under the
proposed project at a cost of about US$1.65 million. The units selected provide
for a high efficiency in maintenance operations and are consistent with MCW's
maintenance practices.   MCW, assisted by a consultant, will develop final
specifications suitable for procurement purposes. These specifications will also
cover on-site training for servicing, minor repair and adjustments procedures,
and operator's training needs.
16.       In parallel with the equipment acquisition program, MCW also defined
the equipment rehabilitation program shown in Table 19 of the report.  This
program includes the needs for rehabilitation and major repairs of all the
existing units which will not be discarded (i.e. those whose cost of
rehabilitation is less than 40Z of their replacement cost) during the four-year
period. The program will be carried out in MCW's workshop, which has proper
facilities and competent personnel for this task. The proposed project will
finance US$0.7 million in spare parts needed to repair and rehabilitate the
equipment listed in Table 19 of the report. Rehabilitation of diesel engines
(fuel pumps and injectors) will be contracted out, as MCW's workshop lacks the
equipment to do this job, at an estimated cost of US$0.13 million. The proposed



-65-
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 9
project will finance 60X of the total cost of equipment rehabilitation by
contract.
17.       Finally, obsolete equipment will be disposed during the four-year
period.  MCW has already "deadlined" 33 major units for disposal.  MCW will
prepare a policy guideline and update the program for disposal of equipment units
which are under one of the following conditibns: i) equipment wrecked beyond
economical repair; ii) cost to repair is greater than 401 of the cost of a
replacement unit; and, iii) equipment no longer needed because of its low
reliability or because of changes in work procedures. Through the implementation
of these three programs MCW will increase the equipment availability ratio from
the present 60% tc an appropriate 85% by 1994, which will enable an efficient
utilization of the equipment fleet.
Routine-Maintenance-By-Contract Pilot Proarsm
18.       Program Obiectives.  The main objective of this pilot program is to
obtain experience on costs, quality of work, supervision needs, benefits and
disadvantages of contract maintenance as compared with force account maintenance.
Lessons learned from this pilot scheme and the comparison with force account
operations will enable MCW to establish a clear policy for delivery of road
maintenance, while identifying possibilities for increasing productivity of force
account work, assessing the capability of the existing local construction
industry and potential interest in routine maintenance, and exploring which
alternative modes to carry out maintenance activities are more cost-effective and
what implementation problems need to be resolved in order to adopt them.
19.       ScoDe of the Pilot Program.  The program consist of 66.7 km of linked
roads located in a geographical area which comprises part of the parishes of
Christ Church, St. George and St. Philip.  A complete list of the road sections
included in the program is shown in Table 7 of this annex. These road sections
constitute a representative sample of typical conditions observed islandwide,
which will enable testing the performance of contracted mainten-ice under
different environments: a variety of traffic conditions, ranging from high
traffic (over 6,000 vehicles per day) to some low traffic local roads; an aple
sample of road componenets to be maintained, from urban roads with curbs and
stormdrains to rural roads with earth ditches and roadside vegetation; and
different surface type (asphalt concrete and penetration treatment) showing
different levels of distress (f-om good to poor).   The sections have been
distributed among three parishes with extensive road networks to avoid the risk
of staff redundancy within MCW districts.
20.       The pilot program involves all routine maintenance activities included
in MCW's annual maintenance plan. The work program has been developed taking
into account the same maintenance activities and quantity standards uEed by MCW
in force account operations. Table 8 of this annex summarizes the maintenance
plan for a two-year period, with the list of maintenance activities, the
corresponding measurement units and an estimate of quantities for each activity
or work program. However, some activities will have to be divided into separate
items to facilitate their tendering, measurement and payment. MCW will review



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 9
this list during preparation of the final documents for bidding. The total cost
of the RMBC Pilot Program has been estimated at US$0.64 million, based on
historical data using force account because data on unit cost for maintenance
work performed by contract is not yet available.
21.       Contract type and provisions.   The contract will be of the "unit
price" type. However, in order to provide for inclusion of additional work items
not initially included in the contract, the tenderers will be requested to quote
hourly rates for basic equipment and personnel, and some allowance for up to 10%
of the contract's value to be done on a cost-plus-fixed-profit fee basis will be
included for activities whose unit costs cannot be reasonable predicted. Payment
will be based on actual quantities and quoted or established prices. Although
the work program defines quantities of work, the contract will allow variations
in defect or excess over those originally estimated.   MCW will assess the
capacity of the local construction industry and the most convenient --and likely-
- size to be targeted by the program. Based on this analysis, MCW will define
the duration of the contract (one contract two-year period or two contracts one-
year period), as well ae allowance for advances for mobilization --usually about
20%-- and the value of performance guarantees to be requested, if any. MCW will
complete preparation of the bid package, which will include contract forms,
minimum qualifications to be met by bidders, technical specifications, bond
requirements, plans including location of the selected road links, and
information to bidders on the bid process, award criteria, project implementation
and supervisory arrangements.
22.       Tendering of Contracts.  To obtain responsive competitive bids, MCW
will advertise locally the invitation to bid and will schedule a pre-bid
conference.   Through this meeting, MCW will answer questions that potential
bidders may have about the project requirements and to ensure that all bidders
fully understand what is required, the methods to be used, the expected schedule,
special equipment or personnel requirements and any other information that could
add to their understanding of the project before preparing their proposals. The
contract will be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents and who has offered the lowest
evaluated bid price, provided further that the bidder has the capability and
resources to carry out the contract as effectively established in the bidding
documents.
23.       Contract Management and SuDervisory Arranzements.   The Operations
Division within the Technical Department will be in charge of the implementation
of the pilot project. MCW will designate a Program Coordinator to administer the
contracZ and provide the 'Liaison between MCW and the contractor in order to
ensure that the program is implemented in a timely fashion. Supervision will be
carried o't by designated supervisors from the Operations Division, using spots
reviews to monitor quality of works and bi-weekly measurement of executed works
to prepare payment statements. The Program Coordinator will retain close control
over the works to be performed, identifying priorities and developing monthly
work schedules; however, the contractor will assume the responsibility for daily
scheduling as well as execution of works. The supervision will keep records of
the work accomplished in terms of pay quantities and compliance with
specifications.



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 9
24.       Program Evaluation and Recommendations.  The consultants hired under
the terms of reference given in Annex 3 will assess the comparative costs,
benefits and quality of maintenance work carried out by contract and force
account.   The comparison of contract maintenance with similar work by force
account will be based on performance and cost data (including direct cost,
overhead and supervision costs) obtained from the RMBC pilot program and the
evaluation of force account operation through the HMMS and EMS. The consultants
will make recommendations regarding: i) possibilities for increasing productivity
of force account operations in view of the results of the RMBC pilot program; and
ii) planning, financing, supervision, and administrative requirements for
effective preparation and execution of maintenance work by contract (including
recommendations on best activities to contract). Based on these recommendations,
MCW will review the current maintenance policies in order to increase
productivity of operations by force account and introduce maintenance by contract
on a larger scale if proved effective.
25.       Schedule.  MCW, assisted by a consultant, will complete preparation
of the bid package and designate a program coordinator within its Operations
Division. Contracting of a private contractor to carry out the pilot program
should be completed by December 31, 1992. During the implementation of the pilot
project, the Operations Division through the Program Coordinator, will collect
data on cost and quality of maintenance activities carried out under the pilot
program and similar work by force account. The preliminary assessment of the
efficiency of road maintenance operations carr-id by both force account and
contract should be available by December 31, 1993. MCW will discuss with the
Bank the preliminary results during the Mid-Term Project Review in the first
quarter of 1994. MCW will formulate such strategy and submit it to the Bank by
December 31, 1994.



BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MCW MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS ORCANIZATION STRUCTURE
Headquaters
OPERATIONS DIVISION
DEPUTY CHIEF TECHNICAL OFFICER|
MAINTENANCE
L  Senior Technieal Officer
Coordination with
TECHNICAL COMMITTEE_
Workshop Divlsion
QUANTITY SURVEYOR                             DISTRICTS OPERATIONS                    MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT SECTION
Materials Manager                               Techlcal Officer                            Technlcal Officer
Technician                                                                             - Road lnventory UnLt
- Plannin, Control, and
Eval"ztlon UnLt
- Wells Inspector
- Utilities Supervisor
00
Senior Technician                       Senior TechnLcian                        Senlor Technician
Districts (7)
St. Michaei N. St. Hichael S.  Christ Church    St. Philip         South Central    North East       North West
Technlclan I    Techniclan I    Techniclan I    Techniclan I   Technician I    TechnicLan I    Technician I
- Denots-Subdenots (13)
Deacons Farm    Richmond         South Point     Six Roads        Golden Ridge    Belleplaine      Prospect
Prince Road                                                       Joes Rlver      SpeLghatown
Country Road                                                      Bagatelle       Chance Hall
- Personnel in Districts                                                                                                                  Total
Techniclan I              I              I                 1              1                 1                1              1              7
Technician II             3              5                 3              2                 3               3               4             23
Supervlsor               12              9                 7              7                 8              16              11             70
Section Leader            1              8                 3              2                 2               3               6             25
Artisan                  13             26                 9              10                6               9              28            101
Labourer                63              82                45             40                69              91              64            454     
Equip. Operators          9             16                 8              13               11               17             22             96            P    >
Total:                  102            147                76             75               100             140             136            776            If



BABAOS
SDECOD ROAD  lINtIANCZ AMD RaOILITTIWH PROJECT
IeN 6 ROA  WWVAN   nu Mg F1993194
drosraw Prsp 4 for                       i MProgra   0.0 K                                                                                            Total road  egth In entice netwok        a  1,549.6 km
goas merAdailiatan  rogs                0. k                                                                                                 Roads exclued from N , I prosram          I     0.0 km
Rmdo WWOC Rcutuw  I",   km                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads un6er Periodic Nrlintenance Prottgsa  96.8 in
Cal Aephalt cumrete pavements  a   99I7.3                                                                                                   (aC) Overlay Proarma                         91h
Cbl Aspbhat er . treatm_t pma                552.1 h                                                                                                   Ib) t Al Program                       a     7. hk
lltl-CE   IV-ITIES--                R06D IENV--- --   --C FO CCOUNTW. Ul TI COStST  "M CC ACCOUNT                      !POSA cO                                    P1cRW COST -               ,wrAcr   I  TOT.
AC..T                                          ..  . ._ ._..........,,............................ .......-------                                        ---------. ------- w--------- .   ..... .. ..  .   . 
ctm nAIL!  ACGIi   oaM    lN.lTt IqoanmE  IM. CREW  lagATUAl LAMMR  EQuiP.  TOTAL  I NATrIAL                                LABO   1     I T    TOTAL   I        8   t031 COSt   TOrAL    I  cosT
CmU     ------ PODWUC. M?T Ofl UNITS9 IT  |               QUT.   DAYS  C|DS$) . D$)  IdD8$)   CDS)  (|D$) D                ItDS)     (D$)        (BDS)    1Q0*     ItDSI CR053           | I   SDSI
ROUIINE MA..h.                                                                                                                                 ..         ..E
e030 Pot Sole Patching             5.0 tone     3,099 P.18.1a.    10,896 l0,918  2.08e   15e.7    91.1    56.4   299.6   1,519,99K    952.56          587,575   3.121.129  1 7         5e93 2      45        .285.814
9020 Ragirad4n  Unpave6 Shwulder   9.0 km          IS n.SAh.M         42       Is     Is    8K.0   457.6   909.0   950.6         3,092      5,949       5,517      12,558       2910953.2         31.703       944062
9030 ratcbing Pawed Shoulder.      1.0 hk         8s  p.abl.           9       39 D9    453.2   451.6   262.0  9 94             37175       17 .8K     10.998      46.59         _         _ -                 46 .59$
9090 Joint 3. CrldM acPdku Sea ein  00   r      3 099 g.l .h     47.17   143.486    319       0.    12.                           . el       4.789    2292 '7     253.549    4.087       2.8      11.525      365.066
1050 COLd Nim Pr-uct   n            I9s.0 I 3   3 ,99 p.ka        5,952    5,932    989      58.7    28.0    39.7   325.5      34         29030    1664.096    22959174351              1  7           -      142.el4
131.0Drain C92 dth k                                                 l8        8      60      0.0  4163.4  2600.0  676.4             0    358.062 22.600          $1,652        22    794                       12
3320 DbrainE CIsanlog Nsbenlcl    2.0 k         2 805 ditch ho   625           09    305      0.0   388.3   549.8   507.8            0    164,541 194.7128        309.268       66    59.0        8594        21065
1430 Culvert Cl renn               1.0 e* abch    162 tmaer         818       853    431      0.0   184.0  2K5.3  429.5              0    153.272    204.293   1.2,365          45    493.6       22.234      379.779
1140 well ClIng9                   5.s  0 3     2.r3  15376 npmbr    493      480   160       0.0    85.5   156.35 221.              0     41,040      65,428     309.478        19   255.1        2864       909,285
1310 Traffic Sign                 4.0 each      9.336  ubaree      I9        ,1062    266    26.8   136.5      0.0   169.3      28.482    144.974           0      713.435      26    204.9        5.308       81,0743
1220 TraffIc Sign Inetalatione   12.0 each      9,556 number       9.088    9,062     89    152.3    26.6   23.7   200.4       163.309     28,240      23.014     212,782       26    250.5        6.512      219.294
9210 Guard Rail Repaits           99.0 La          9s d.r.o        8.269    8.128    542      6.7    26.2    23.9    66.7       54.214   293.980    194,095       542.219      143 06.7           90.6i       5S_.036
9240 PaintiSg Center Lines         4.0 in         O 143 p.bo          81       63     Is    750.0   101.5   70.3  929.5         45,730      6,176       4,285      56,2. 2       - |             6             56.39.
3250 SpeCIal Pavema,nt Markings    6.0 sacb    23,999 eambr          730      707    318    625       7.       25 949           4.6         585        5.2         3,9           2    704          558        16.246
MG1 Wodlog elgua                  0.    e         19 ^r.s    @.1            b91       6      6251 9       3.  731   162.        4417  2     7  65679   117 672   130717 009    101 t*1         7   25 000   O 72 00
3590 NeedIng Sraat_D           9et.0 ho         29   re1de.o1   4,484    4,441 41431          0.0   6035.   204.5   808.0            0  2680,44    909,185        5582          43    929.2       9           S62   4
3320 NeedIng   cenlcal             6.0  o       2,986 r1 ldekm    2,351    2,83    297        0.0    53.0   48.8   28                0      8               _     3            36     294          5.30        2 86
1$20 CerWe Dr ID* 4 Culsort   5.0 d   13 d pt/ dl  512  256  S   102 6   201 $   119 $   42J n       26 266     51 166a    8 30 5 416   101  1 e4.856 48 94.0        124 754      21J 236
3320 Tree* Tr ^lg A Remoi          9.0 no.         13 depoted        86        96     96      0.0  159.5      S 329.03  729.8        0     38.348      531613      69,961                  _           -        9.961
110 Scrlge MaLnteneee             0.2 each         69 damtber         48       4     240   424.3  374 .2             39 860.5    6.446     80,365       2.496      419.305                 _           _        9203
3420 Culveirt Nulntenance         3.  ah        1,62:mer          2.I    2.390  2210         1  56 3 22.8    32.0.   45.3.    330.053    773.480    120,120   1.023.655         59    509.6      30.067     9,5.0
34I  Iaso   ocrt   lpe   2.0 herb                ,21 slip.ka    21601  20261020              1.       19.6     7.3    27.5    233.138    399,354    152.970       765.462    1.205     43.2       52.008      67410
3190 Eusmrgcy ActIvIties          90mdy            9 depotled    3,340    3,920    284,       0.     52.     463      9.,:6,47                       1283         27.5          2      9.        2.1          2.7
3830 Precastig       2,0 aS          13 dpot:4        468       43     290     5.       9. .0    19.               4,5       46,739           0      79,371       so    200.7       10.034       Al20
3630 &AfuinlatratVe   cill          .  dy          1 depo4fe    16.692   16,692  2.182        0.      151      00     3530                80.9                                                                     Os019.-    9.8
- _   .__._.                                        __   ...---.                                              .__..._____ __...- _.._____........ -  --- _
T O      L     . 0 D I  I N S  N A INT      A   C E                                       2,762.696  7,605,.76  5.377,781  3.7K5.655                          643.510   14.589.I"9
*             ~~~~~~~~--- ----- - --------------      . ------.......        .---- ----                            ---------------------                         ------------ -.                   .
1790 IesurfacTIngt300.9 tone,                     1 29 lard.h    38,9918 5,911        63    359.9      3.3     7.5   162.:7  2,672,770    166,567    327,612   3,077.0         ')      C)162.0              0.702,009
3720 Surface TraInt             90. m2             73             sordh    184341845  8 .4a07                   .6     2.      21,374    124.360    10.611        53.34i                               -      536.164
389 hll DiggIng                 .0::.2           1 3 depotled      96        0       0    379.6    37,3   400.0   26.                                                         go B  29.         825          8  5
3820 Concrete Dran. 6 Gaalvarta   3. .2 I 1   epts                   236     85    302.66  209.6   199.3  4263.8       26.266     51,668      S 30,48    908,483      25     487.5      124.754      23,2:236
T O  A A L     OAD    n A   BAINTESANC            P LAN b                                   600  129  7.923.918  3,736.480  17,662,528                        6 421644   26.10 4169
C1) Reminder portion of tb* flset contract for averimy work.,
a-> a-



SECOND ROAD MtL4111tCE AND REAARILITATIOI PRWECT
tiCWS ROAD MAIf2ABCE PLfA FOR n13994193
rorean pr pered for                      a ENRE 15MTA                                                                                                Total road laogth In *ntire network      *  13549.60 km
Itod under Rehabilitation Program        a      e.o km                                                                                               Road* ecluded from 3 S   progr'm         a      0.0 km
load, under Routine Maintenance Progrom a 1549.6 km                                                                                                  Road. under Periodic Maigataance Programs    101.2 km
(a) Aspbalt concrete pavements          a   997.3 km                                                                                                  (a) Overlty Program                   a    63.3 km
(bh Aspbhlt surface treatmant pavemetes   S52.3 km                                                                                                    (b) Reseal Progra.                     A     31.9 km
MAI3TUCE ACTIVITIES               I ROAD IWIENTORI            I FORCE ACCOUNT I  UNIT COST by FORCE ACCOUNT   I        PS5CRAI COST - FORCE ACCOUNT               PROGRAM COST - CONTRACT   I  TOTAL
-  ACTIVITy -    06DLY  &CPI I    NP E   I3V3.         rl3 AIITIT     WORI. CREW  IMATERlAL IABOR   EQUIP.   OTAL  I MATERALS    LABOR    EQUI3PMT    TaTAL   WORK  UNIT COST  TOTAL         COST
CODE            NAME            PRODUC. UNIT IOP UNITS  UIWT  I          IQU3MT   DAYS    8D0I)  (8DS)  (BDS)   (8D$)      (80DS)         (D0$)      (SD$)      (8DS)     QUAfTITr  (BD$)    (SD$)         (8DS)
ROUTINE MAINIE33ABCE
I030 Pot Mole Ptchinag             3.0 tone     3.099 p.3..m      9.976    9.976  1 993    3SI.7    9.       36.4   29s.6   3.512.960    913.:03    562.646   2.988.710         -        _            _   2.988.710
3020 Regredlag Unpaved Shulder   1.0 k             IS u.lm           42          42   42     84 0   4S7.6   409.0   950.6       3.52B      19.220     37.178      39.926        -        _           _       39.926
1030 Patebig Pawd Sbouldere       1.0 km          80 p.shl.km       39       39      39    453.2   457.6   282.0  1194.8       17.753     17.868     30.998      46.598        -        _           _       46.S9B
3040 Joelt * Crack SealIng      400.0 Itre      3 099 p.la.Ic   127.599  927.388    319       0.8     0.e     0.9     2.5      95.699    102.07S9    34.839      312.618        _        _           _      312 6I8
1050 Cold His Prodactito           6.0 13       3,099 p.lka-      5.414    5.414    902      S8.7    28.0    38.7   323.3     317.639    351.392    209.359      678 .93        _        _           -      678.S91
1110 Dral Cleaniag laual          0.8 km         962 diteb km       97       97    970       0.0  4163.4  2600.0  6763.4            0    403,80    252.200     656.050        -        _           _      656.00
1120 Drala Cleaning eIchanical    2.0 km          903 ditch km      664      664    332       0.0   388.1  339.8  507.8             0    124.885    212.314      337.199        _        _           _      337.199
1130 Culvert Cleaning             2.0 eacb      1.162 mumber        878      818    439       0.0  184.0  24S.3  429.3              0    1618552   215.330       376,682        -        _           _      376.882
1140 Uell Cleaning                 3.0 wv.3     2,376 nuber         480        0       0      0.0    85.5   136.3   221.8           0           0          0           0      480    255.1     122.448       122.448
1210 Traffic Slga Maintmenance    4.0 each      9.336 umber       1088   81088    272        26.6   136.5     0.0   163.3      29.158    146,523           0     177,681        -        -           -       177.68I
1220 Traffic Sign Inetelatione   12.0 *acb      9.336 number     13088    I 088       91    362.1   26.6    21.7   200.4    165,463        28.952     23.511     217,992        -        _           _      211.992
1230 Guard 811 Repair.           13. 1.0          95 g.r.km      8.269    8.269    551       6.7    36.2   23.9   66.7        55.154    299,090    197.381      353,625        -        _           _      551.623
1240 Painting Canter Lime         4.0 1.e         143 p.km           61       61      3S   7SO.0  101.3   70.3  921.5          45.750      6.176       4.285      36.212        _        -           _       S6.212
3230 Sp ecial Pavement Harking    6.0 eacb      3.099 numbt         637      637    106      62.5    79.1    43.3   184.9      39.813      50.361     27.601     117.775        -        _           _        117
1310 1 edline Maual                1.0 km       2.986 relde.km       4,484    4.484  4.484    0.0   603.5  204.5  808.0             0  2.706.094    916,978   3.623.072         _        _           _    3,623,072
1320 Weeding Mechutical           6.0 km        2.986 reid.km    2,551    2,353    42S        0.0    33.0   48.8    81.8            0      84.234    124,361     208,595        _        _           _      208.395
1330 Tree Trimtn  & Reumming       1.0 to.         13 deponted       96       96      96      0.0   399.5  329.3  726.8             0      38.340     31.613      69,961        -        _           _       69.961     *
1410 Bridge MaIntenance           0.2 each         89 number         48       48    240    134.3  1674.2   52.0  1860.5         6,446      90,363      2.496      89.305        _        _           _       89.305    0
142  Culvert Mlatenance            1.0 each     1,162 tnmber      2.369    2,369  2.369      56.3  334.6   52.0  443.1        133,375    793.236    123,188   1,049.799         _        _           _    1,049.799
1430 Repair of Concret Sllpper  20.0 kehrb a   1421 2 lip.km     21,601   21,601  1.080      10.5    19.6     7.5    37.5    225,730    422,s48    162.00,       810.686        _        _108.46866
3310 Emergency Actbivtlee         83.0 mdey        33 depot/ad    3,320    3,120    284       0.0    52.4   46.1    98.S            0    363.457    143.801      307,23S        _        _           _      307.258
8630 Preceding                    2.0 m3           33 depotled      4I9      419   230       38.4   III.3     0.0   169.9      24,433     46,719           0      713 71        _        _                   71,171
3630 AdenlaItratlve Actgvltls    6.0  day        13 depotled  16,692   16.692  2,782         0.0    53.3     0.0    33.3           0    S90.3I4           0     690.184        _        _           _      890U,
T o T A L    RODTIN1E    N A I N T E N A  t C E                                          2,672,922  7.652.813  3,332,153  13.677.888                         1 122,440   13.09336
 ~ ~ ~~                  .4.  a                    a.4.----.4.-.-.                                                                               -           .4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  ------
PEltlODIC 11411t6CE
1710 Ieturtacng                 300.0 tone       13 l          I 39,931   18.911   63   II.9       3.3     7.3   162.7   2,872  770    66.567    137.672   3,077,009    (6)       ()      6.750,000    9.827 000
1720 Surface Tretam             3000.0 *2          16 la.rd.km  388,434  398,434    388       3.4     0.7      0.6    2.7    273 ,74    324,380    320,631    516,364           -                             6 364
I830 11  DI SggIng                5.m              13 depotlad       96        0      0    179.6    37.3   40.0   256.8             .                                          96    29S.3      28,350       28,350
8200 Concrete Drain s  culvert.   3.0 m'           13 depotiad      512      236     83    102.6  201.8  119.3  423.8          26.266     S.l668      30,548     108.483      256    481.3     124.754      233,236
1U30  rreach Drdare                6.0 a           13 depotlad      312      312    85       42.0   89.3   83.4   216.8        21,504     45.7U4    43,73S       110,981        _        _                      ge981
3840 Cabion Stretures             6.0 bahket       13 depotiad      312      312     52    210.0    97.4   90.2   397.6        63,520     30,3e6     28,133      124.039        _124.039
T O t A L    P E 2 I 0 D I C    n A I NTIT   N & N C *                                     3.257.433    318,74S    360.699   3,936,873                     6,903,104   10,8539.79
T 01  A L    10 A D   I A  1 S T        A3 *b   C E    P L A N                              3,930,356  7.971,356  3,712,652  17,614,764                      7.023,332   24,640.315
0) Second contract for overlay works.
crn
tD X
N ..



S W   161 VAIWruMCi AN3 501A81LTATtCu PRJECt
iaa'S 8.61 MAINTENANCE PMM  10  v1995196
Pr TM jsepared for                            En&Il  3h1AU                                                                                                 Total road leogth to entire network       a  1,349.6 km
R..  n erhoabtlltatiom Progrem      I      0.0 km                                                                                                   Roads excluded fires N A atpoga                   0.0 h
Zoad. uniec  outine Naintenance Program    1.3,49.6 km                                                                                                     &o&d. under Periodic Maintenance Pragrema       99.2 km
(a) Asphalt concrete pavements           a    991.3 km                                                                                                      (a) Overlay Program                            39h
(b) Aephalt eurf&Ce treatment0 pavemenS,O   312.3 ha                                                                                                        (hI Beseal Program                      a     31.4 ha1
M&ilKTUABCE AC)!VITES              I ROD IMVUIORY               fPE  co?IwT MoT By FORCE ACCOUNIT                           PROGRAM COST - FORCE ACCOUNT                P8.O6163 COST - CONTRACT        TOA
-     LYIYtY----    PAIL)                                             MORE-EB*D   Y-~081Y I  11- CUMV  KWM&T AL 4ASD3   iquiP- -tALz 4t IAMTIALA.,  LAEI8. -.- LQPIPIENi!    IDAlr4   _.  van6  UIT COST   tOTAL    ICOST
CODE             NaME            PRODuc. UNIT iO' WITS  IRittI              I ZOiNt.  DAYS  I (80)   6806)   (905)   (BP5)  I   (D05)          (B0$)       (BS        (P)       40*#TV  MM0S          18061 ---    1506)7
1010 Pot mole PatchIng              3.   oe       3,09  p.ah          .191    8.18)  1.11       311      9.1     1.    299.6   1.302,001    18s.T63    484, 94   2,171,960             -                     -    2.111,900
3020 Resradiag Unpaved Sboulder   1.0 ha-             2 II ueh.h        42       4        2     8.       3.      0.0 906             339        1.2          1118       39.926         ---                           3.2
030 Patching Paved Sboulder.       1.0 ha           80 p.ohl.km        39        39     39    451.2   4351.6   282.   1194.8       11,13       11,684      la g9o      46,598         -        -            -       46.39
1040 Joint 6 Crack Sealing       400.0 ILr        .9   .aha 36741613                    6         .       . 0.9            .3       80066       83.403     96,019      261.341        -                     -       26,1
3030 Cold Miz Production            6.0m          3,9  p.la.ka       4,10     4.303    III      19.01   28.0    38.7   13.3        264.19)1   126,084    174.13       S64.406---                                     440
3330 Drain Cleaning Manuel          0.1 ha          962 diltch ha      097        97    910      0.0  41683.   2600.0  6163.              0    403.830    252.200      656,050         -                     -      656,030
1320 Drain Cleanina Mechanical    2.0 ha            803 ditch km       664      664    332       0.0   88.1   339.8   301.8              0    124.885    212,314      331.199         ---                          331,199
1130 Culvert CleanIns               2.0 each      3162 number          816      818    419       0.0   184.0   243.3   429.3              0    61,552    213,330      316.8B2         -                     -      36,82
1140 Weil Clesaning                 I.v           2316 auamber         480        0a              .       33 13.          2.                0                                0       480    233.3      122,448      112,449
210 Traffic Sign  aience           4.0 each      9.336 number       2.088    3 098    212      26.a   136.3      0.0   163.3       29,338    148.323            0     377,693              -                -      11.fi8
1220 Trafici Sign Imestalationa   12.0  sea      9,336 nusber       3,088    1.069      91    112.1    26.6    21.1   200.4       165.463      28.932      23,311     217,992         ---                          231.992
2 30 Guard Rail Repair.           is.  l.a          95 g.r.loo      6,269    9,269    331       6.1    36.2    23.9    66.1         3.3154    299,090    191.381      333.623         -        -33.623
240 Painting Caoter Linac          4.00 l.a        43 P.AS            61       61      is    130.0   101.3    10.3   923.3        43,110       6,316       4.283      16,212         -                              6,232
2 10pecia 1     Pavement Itarkange    6.0 each   3,009 nmbser         330       530     B8     62.1    19.3    43.3   84.9        33,123      41.902      22,963      91 992         -        --                     1.992
1330 heedIng Ilamnaci      3~~~~~.0 ha  2,986 reids.ke    4.494    4.48484  84          00 933 243 8800  2,706.0914    936,918   3,23.012                                    -         --                3,201
12 :Neding Itechantcel          6.0 ha        2,986 weideka,   I,331    2,333    42           0.0    330    488       9.                     424    24,361         208,1935                                      0.9
33  treTrimlug I Removing          3.   o            3depotled         96        96     96      0.0   399.5   329.3   128.8             0      38,348     31,613       69.961         -                     .       69,963      ..
340Bridge Malugenaces            0. aeach         8mabc               8        48    240    334.3  1614.2    12.0  960.1          6.446     80.363       2496        69.301                                       89.303      -
40Culivrr Maintenance            A.  eah      1,162 numger       2,369    2,3U9  2.369       36.3   334.8    32.0   443.1       133.315    793.235      2,8       ,4.9                                          ,4.9
430 Repair of Conrete Slipper  2.3.0her  a   1,421 slip.k  21.601   21,60l1.3090      30.1    19.6     1.3    31.       22,30       42948   3A2,08          80.6                                         8    10,686 
33  Ecrec  Atvcee                .   day          Is d.potlad    3,320    3.120    294        0.0    52,4    46.1    98.5              0    363,451    143,801      301,238                                      301-uo.z5e
Act0iPreceeing203                            13 I d:p"tlad     439       419    230      38.4   1ii.5      0.0   169.9      24,433      46 1319          0      11.11          .        --                   1.1
1830 Adminierative Activitiese   6.0 aday            13 dpaptled   16.692  316,692  2,192        0.0    33.3      0.0    33.3             0    890.164           0     990,164-                              -      90,4
-    ------.----,  ----.  ..------..$.                        .4,r.- --.-------------4-.                                                                                               I-- 4---------- ------   ---------
TOT A L    Rou 9T Ing           MAINTENA HCE                                                 1,2386,193  1.414,831  3,215,071  133016,121                          122.448 13.398.569
1110 Resurfacing                  300.0 ton. ,      128 la.rd.ka   3,3        1893       61    131.9      3.1       .     6.    2,812,110       66.367    1327672   3.017.00       c11      (a3      7,310.000   10.227,009
310Surface Treatment          3000.0 102       I tI la.rd. S   1:9,4341  3864341   388         3.4     0.1      06      21       211,314    124.390    120,611      316,6           -                              16,364
83  Nell DiggIng                   1.0 SS    I       3 depotlad        96         0      0    119.6    31.3    40.0   236.9              -          -           -            -       96    293.)       29.330;      29.330
38210 Concrete Oraine & Culverte   3.0 :3    I       3) depotiod       332       236     as    302.6   201.6   119.3   423.8        26.266       1.,665     10,348     13048.4       236    481.3      324,134      213.236
830 Preach Drain$                  6.0 a             3 4epoted        132       332     83     42.0    99.3    03.4   236.         21,304      43,142     43.1131     31,0.9911                                    'IO  3.9I
3640 Gablon Structures              6.0 beeket       33 depocled       332       312     32    230.0    91.4    90. 2   3921.       63.520      30,386     28,333       2,3               Ia32..0)931
-*  --------              -      --   -------                                ------                   ------------                                 ---- --------- ---.------------ .                         --..,
TO 0 T L    P ER 5 I 0  2  C    M A I NT I UAUC E                                            3.237,433    338,143    360,699   3,9365,813                       7,302,104   1,239,919
T 0 T A L    10  0         isa gu A D    ImT1A CZ g P L A U                                    1.643,621  1.793,594  3,373.173  17,012,996                        1,423,532   24,439,341
40) Third contract for oveclep wocha.



72 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
OVERLAY PROGRAM TO BE CARRIED OUT BY MCW OWN FORCES
ROAD         PARISH  ROAD                                                                            LENGTH  WIDTH
NAME          CODE  CLAS9                  FROM                                  TO                   (kkm)    (m)
FIRST YEAR PROGRAM (1992/93)      1
Highway B               A      P IGreenland                             Cherry Tree Hill                        3.5    6.0
Highway D               T      P   Cane Garden                          Porey Spring                             5.0    6.5
Farm Rd.                E      S   H'way 1                              H'way 2A                                 2.6    6.5
Whim Rd.                 E     S   H'way 1                              H'way 2A                                 1.6    5.0
Cartton Rd.              S     S XHway 1 (Lower Cartton)                H'way 2A (Upper CarLton)                 4.8    6.0
MoLyneux (Norwoods)      S     S   H'way 1                              Bennets (St. Thomas Bder.)               2.3    4.0
Porters Rd.              S     S   H'way 1 (Porters)                    HNway 2A (Westmoreland)                  3.6    5.0
Prior Park Rd.           S     S   Husbands Road (SS-2)                 St. Thomas Border                        1.5    6.0
Prior Park Rd.           T     S   St. James Border                     H'way 2A                                 0.1    5.0
Bennets Rd.              T     S   New Road (Left side)                 H way 2A Junction                        0.4    5.5
Subtotal (1992/93):                                                                                             25.3    5.8
SECOND YEAR PROGRAM (1993/94)   E
Highway 1B              L      P   Crab Hill                            Ent. North Point Resort                 4.9    5.2
Highway C               A      P j Turners Hatl Yard                    Pole w/H'way C sign                      5.0    6.0
Highway E               T      P   Exchange                             Mount Wilton (Lammings Junc.)           4.8    6.0
Highway E               0      P   Mount Wilton                         Melvin HilL                              1.3    5.5
Highway K               J      P   Massiah Street (via Stewart Hill)  St. Phillip Border                        0.9    5.0
Highway K               P      P   Stewart Hill                         H'way F Junction                        0.8    5.0
Prospect Rd.             E     S   Indian Ground/Prospect               Charles D. O'Neal H'way                  0.9    5.0
LS-6                    L      S   HMway IC (Mt. PLeasant)              Grave Yard-Date Tree Hill               5.9    6.0
Subtotal (1993/94):                                                                                            24.5    5.7
THIRD YEAR PROGRAM (1994/95)
Highway 1C               L     P   O'Neal H'way (St. Lucy Church)       H'way lB (River Bay)                    4.7    6.0
Highway C               A      P   Apes HiLL (Plantation)               White HiLL Junction                     2.9    6.2
Highway J                J     P   Society and H'way H                  H'way F                                  1.4    5.0
Newbury-St. Judes Rd.   G      S   Higway X (Newbury Junct.)            St. John Border (Todds Cr.)             3.7    5.0
Churchview Rd.           J     S   Parris HiLL and JS-6                HMway F (Mary Lane)                       1.9    6.0
Clifton HaLL Rd.         J     S   H'way 3B (GaLL Hill)                 St. Joseph Border (Malvern)             3.5    5.0
JS-8                     J     S   ViLla Nova Junction                  St. Joseph Border                        1.5    6.0
Mount Gay Rd.            L     S   H way IB (St. Lucy Church)           Road to CoLLin                           4.8    5.0
Coffee Gully Rd.         0     S   H'way 3 (GrantLey Adams School)    Easy HaLl (OS-2                           1.4    4.5
Subtotal (1994/95):                                                                                            25.8    5.4
FOURTH YEAR PROGRAM (1995/96)
St. Lucy Dist. Hosp.    L      P   North Point Surf Resort              H'way IC (River Bay)                    0.6    5.2
AS-1                     A     S   Gregg Farm/Turners Hall Junct.       H'way 2                                  3.7    5.5
AS-4                     A     S   Morgan Lewis                         Seaview                                  1.6    5.5
Collins Rd.              E     S   St. Peter Border                     MiLl Wall (The Gave Yard)                1.2    5.0
ES-8                     E     S   O'NeaL H'way (via Portland)          Collins and ES-11                       4.6    5.0
ALexandra Rd.            L     Sj H'way IC (Half Acre)                  LS-4                                     2.3    5.0
LS-10                    L     S I HMway 1C (Spring Hall)               H'way 1C (Brighthall)                    1.2    5.0
LS-7                     L     S   Chance HaLL (MTW Depot)              LS-6                                    2.4    6.0
Easy Hall Rd.            0     Si St. John Border (Easy HaLL)           H'way 3 (Cotton Tower)                   1.6    4.5
Easy Hall Rd.            0     SI Easy Hall Junction                   Horton                                   0.6    5.0
St. Silas Rd.            S     SI H'way ZA (St. Silas)                  Endeavour                                2.9    5.0
Plum Tree Rd.            T     SI HNway 2A (Blowers Junct.)             H'way D (Farmers)                        2.7    5.0
Subtotal (1995/96):              1                                                                             25.4    5.2
TOTAL PROGRAM                                                                                             101.0    5.5
Parish Code:  (Al St. Andrews;  (El St. Peter;  (GI St. George;  til St. John;  (Ml St. Michael;  (01 St. Joseph
UP1 St. Philip;  IS1 St. James;  mT3 St. Thomas; EX] Christ Church.
Road Class:   (PI Primary road;j (SI Secondary road;  (LI Local road.



- 73 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5 (a)
BARBADOS
'SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
RESEAL PIOGRAM TO BE C4RRIED OUT BY MCW OWN FORCES C1992/93-1995/96)
ROAD         PARISH  ROAD!                                SECTION                                 LENGTH  WIDTH
NAME          CODE  CLASSg                FRON                                 TO                  (km)    (m)
FIRST YEAR PROGRAM (1992/93)
Highway 3               G     P   Groves Corner                       St. Joseph Border                      0.5    5.0
Baxters/White Hitl      A     S I H'way 2                             Broken Road                            0.1   5.0
Coggins Hilt            A     S I Haggatts                            Chaley Mount                           1.7   5.S
Luke Hill               E     S IO'Neal H'way                         Luke Hill (first culvert)              0.6    5.0
Lowe" Greys-Buttals R   G     S   H'way 5 (Lowe Greys)                H'way 4b (Buttals-Brighton)            1.2    6.0
Sweet Vale              G     S   H way 3 (Groves Corner)             St. John Border (Redland)              3.1    5.0
Todds-Woodland Rd.      G     S   H'way 4 (Woodland)                  St. John Border (Todds)                0.5    5.0
Etlesmere Rd.           J     S   Todds Junction                      St. George Border (Ellosmere)          0.5    5.0
JS*5                    J     S  St. George Border (Redland Plant.) Clifton Hall Yard Junction              4.6    6.0
Hannays-Friendship      L     S   O'Neal H'way (Bourbon)              H'way 1B (St. Swithins Ch.)            3.9    5.0
Beckles Rd.             M     S   Bay Street                          Britton Rd-Britton New Rd.             1.4    5.0
Bissex Hill             0     S   Blssex House                        St. Andrew Border (Choliey Mount)      0.9    5.5
Springfield Rd.         0     S   Bissex House                        Cattlewash                             2.9    5.0
PS-7                    P     S   Bushy Park                          Junction with PP4B                     1.6    5.0
Mount Hillaby           A     L   Hillaby Road                        End of road (Cul de Sac)               0.7    5.0
Rock Hall               A     L   Turners Hall                        Main Road                              1.9    4.5
Corbin 2d.              E     L   Greaves Rd.                         Cul de Sac                             0.8    4.5
First Ave.              G     L   Greens                              Second Ave. (Greens)                   0.8    5.0
Bridge Cot Rd.          a     L   H'way X                             H'way 3                                1.2    5.0
Byde Mill               G     L   H'way 4B (Byde Mill)                Drax Hall (Tenantry Rd.#2)             1.5    5.0
Byre Rd.                G     L   Greens                              H'way 4                                0.8    5.0
Sweet Vale Link Rd.     G     L   H'way 3                             St. Joseph Border                      0.3    3.5
Cheshire                J     L   East Mont                           Cul de Sac                             2.0    4.0
Luke Hilt (Oxford)      L     L   Luke Hill (first culvert)           Mt. Gay (LS-4)                         1.1    5.0
Belair Ave.             M     L   Fifth Ave. (Alkins Land)            Hoad Land                              0.1   4.0
Subtotal (1992/93):                                                                                         34.7    5.1
SECOND YEAR PROGRAM (1993/94)
Boscobelle              E     S   ES-8                                First wall house on hill               0.4    5.0
Boscobelle              E     5   ES-9                                The Risk                               1.3    6.0
Shermans                E     S. H'way IB (Clinketts)                 Fish Bay (Assembly Church)             0.3    5.5
Ashford Rd.             J      S   HNway 4 (Guinea Rd.)               Colleton Corner                        2.0    5.0
Cllnketts-Checker Hal   L     S. Shermans Assembly Hall               Cement Plant Entrance                  1.9    5.5
Husbands Rd.            L     S   H'way IB                            Harrsion Base (BOF)                    1.0    5.0
Josey Hill Rd.          L     S   Mount Gay (LS-4)                    Cul de Sac                             2.1    5.0
Trents Rd.              L     S. H*way 1C (St. Lucy Church)           H'way 1B (Police Station)              2.9    5.2
Trents Rd.              L     S   LS-8                                LS-9                                   1.1    4.0
Belle Rd.               N     S   Belle Junction-ABC HNway            Dayrells Junction                      2.1    6.0
Upton Rd.               M     S   H'way 6                             Cable  nd wireless                     0.4    5.0
Seally Hil.-Bayffeld    P     S   Near East Point Supply Shop        HNway 4B                                4.4    5.0
Wanstead                S     S   Wanstead (St. Michael Border)       HaynesvilLe                            2.1    6.0
Bloomsburry             T     S   H'way 2 Junction                    Bloomsburry                            0.5    5.0
ount Misery             T      S   HNway D Junction                   Carrfngton - H'way ZA                  3.2    6.0
Rock Hall               T     S   Near St. Thomas Church              Porey Spring                           1.8    6.0
Church Hill             X      S   Near Christ Chureh-H'way T         H'way 7 Junc.- off Chancery Lane       0.9    5.0
EAterprise              X     S   XPU (Keizer Hill)                   XPU (Sayers Court)                     4.1    6.0
Kindall HilL            X     S   Off ABC H'way                       H'way 6 Junction                       0.6    5.0
Pot House               J      L   HOway 38                           Welch Town Road                        1.4    5.0
Welch Town #1           J      L   H'way F                            H'way 0                                1.2    4.5
Maycocks                L      L   H'way 1                            Cul de Sac                             0.9    4.0
College Savannah        P     L   Blade Main Road                     St. John Border                        1.1   5.0
Subtotal (1993/94):                                                                                         37.7    5.4



- 74 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5 (b)
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
RESEAL PROGRAM TO BE CARRIED OUT BY MCW OWN FORCES (1992/93-1995/96)
ROAD         PARISH  ROAD                                 SECTION                                 LENGTH  WiDTH
NAME          CODE  CLASS                 FROM                                TO                   (km)    (m)
THIRD YEAR PROGRAM (1994/95)
Bawden                  A     L   Sawden Road                         End of Road                            1.2    5.0
Franklyn Doughlfn Ten   A     L   Belteplaine Rd Junction             End of Penetrated Road                 0.6    5.0
Jordan's Road           A     L   Belleptaine Rd Junction             End of Penetrated Road                 0.5    5.0
King Street             A     L   St. Simons Church                   End of Road (Cul De Sac)               0.6    4.5
Less BehoLden           A     L   Chalky Mount Junction               End of Penetrated Road                 0.5    5.0
Sledge Pond             A     L   Indian Ground                       End of Penetrated Road                 0.7    4.5
Church HiLL Road        E     L   Highway 1 (St. Joseph Hospital)    Behind CP School                        0.5    4.5
Ctarkes Road            E     L   Highway 1 (Ashton Hall)             Highway 2A                             1.0    4.5
Denny Road              E     L  Whim                                 Whim                                   0.6    3.5
Goodridge Road          E     L   Whim                                Cul De Sac                             0.3    4.0
Lonesome Hilt           E     L   Four Hilt Road-Orange Hill          CuL De Sac                             0.6    3.5
Muttins                 E     L   Highway 1                           Highway 2A                             2.6    0.0
Niles Road              E     L   Farm Road                           Cul De Sac                             0.4    2.5
Richmond Hill           E     L   Highway 2A                          Cut De Sac                             0.8    5.0
Sweet Home Road         E     L   Highway 1                           Cut De Sac                             0.5    4.5
Warleigh                E     L   Highway 2A                          Farm/Naymans                           1.3    4.5
Briggs Hilt Ave.        G     L   Highway X                           Cut De Sac                             0.4    3.0
First Step S            G     L   First Step A                        Cul De Sac                             0.1    3.5
First Step Road A       G     L   Highway 4                           Highway 4                              0.1    3.j
Free Hill #2            G     L   Workmans Road #2                    Workmans Road #1                       0.5    4.0
Giles Road              G     L   Highway 5 (Watts Village)           Cul De Sac                             0.2    5.0
Harmony Cottage         G     L   Farm Road                           CuL De Sac                             0.4    4.0
Jericho Road            G     L   Workmans Road #3                    Jordan Road                            0.3    3.5
Johnson Road            G     L   Workmans Road                       Cul De Sac                             0.2    3.5
Mayfield Road           G     L   Flat Rock Road                      Francia Road Junction                  0.6    4.5
Mayffeld Ten. Rd #1     G     L   Mayfield Road                       CuL De Sac                             0.2    4.0
Middleton #2            G     L   Middletown #1                       Middletown #3                          0.4    4.0
Middleton #3            G     L   Middletown #1                       Cut De Sac                             0.4    4.0
Niles Road              G     L   Etlenton Road                       Ellenton Road                          0.3    3.0
Ruth King Road          G     L   Sareant Road                        Walker Road                            0.3    4.0
Todds Lands #2          G     L   Todds Land-Macaroni Village         Highway Y                              0.4    4.0
Waverley Cot Rd. #2     G     L   Wavertey Cot Road #1                Cut De Sac                             0.4    3.5
Workmans #3             G     L   Workmans #2                         Cul De Sac                             0.5    3.5
Mount Tabor Church Rd   J     L   Sherbourn (JS-5)                    JS-7                                   0.4    3.5
Venture Road #1         J     L   Venture Road (JS-7)                 Cut De Sac                             0.4    3.5
Welch Town #2           J     L   Welch Town #1                       Welch Town #1                          0.2    4.0
Animal Flower Cave Rd   L     L   Highway 15                          Animal Flower Cave Entrance            0.7    5.0
Benthams                L     L   Highway 1C (By Post Office)         End of Penetrated Road                 0.3    3.5
Clinketts Garden        L     L   Clinketts Road                      Cut De Sac                             0.3    4.0
.Ctlnketts Garden IA     L     L   Ctinketts Garden                   Cul De Sac                             0.1    3.0
Spring Villa            L     L   Highway 1B                          Cut De Sac                             0.3    4.0
2nd Ave. Chelston       N     L   Tamarind Ave, Dalkeith Village      Chelston Ave.                          0.2    4.5
3rd Ave. Chelston       M     L   Chelston Ave.                       Tamarind Ave, Dalkeith Village         0.1    4.5
Ash Deane Village       M     L   Deacons Farm Road                   Highway 1 (tBlack Rock)                0.1    4.0
Chelston Ave.           M     L   Cutloden Road                       Tamarind Ave, Dalkeith Village         0.3    4.5
Chelston Ave. #1        M     L   Chelston Ave.                       Tamarind Ave, Dalkeith Village         0.1    4.5
Chelston Ave. #2A       M     L   Chelston Ave.                       Chelston Ave. #2                       0.1    4.5
Straker Road            M     L   Highway (St. Stephens)              Strakers Road Junction                 0.4    4.5
Cambridge               0     L   Bissex Road                         End of Penetrated Road                 1.3    5.0
GuTte; Road             0     L  Andrew's Factory Junction            St. George Boarder Junction            0.7    5.0
Spa Hill                0     L  Mellowes Hill                        Cane Garden (St. Andrew boarder)       2.0    5.0
Vaughn Road             0     L   Vaughn Road #1                      End of Penetrated Road                 0.1    5.0
Vaughn Road #1          0     L   Horse Hill                          Vaughn Road #2 Junction                0.5    5.0
Vaughn Road #2          0     L   Horse Hill                          End of Penetrated Road                 0.4    5.0
Barnes Road             P     L   Highway 4B                          Pole #PQK 923                          0.6    4.5
Bayley's                P     L   Highway 4B                          Cul De Sac                             0.7    4.5
Bentley Tenantry        P     L   PP5 Near Pole #SNK 77               PP5 Junction                           0.3    4.5
Brere on #1             P     L   PP5 Opposite Pole #SNK 77           Highway 5                              0.7    5.0
Cave Land               P     L   Stroude Land (Kirtons)              End of Penetrated Road                 0.6    4.5
Cotes Road              P     L   Long Bay-Sealy Hill                 End of Section                         0.7    4.5
Drake's Land            P     L   Highway 5                           Cut De Sac                             0.3    4.5
Evelyn Road             P     L   PS-1 (Hamblin Road)                 End of Penetrated Road                 0.5    4.5



- 75 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5 (c)
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
RESEAL PROGRAM TO BE CARRIED OUT BY MCW OWN FORCES (1992/93-1995/96)
ROAD         PARISH  ROAD                                   SEC;ION                                  LENGTH  WIDTH
NAME          CODE  CLASS                  FROM                                  TO                   (km)    tm)
Featherbed Lane          P     L   Highway 4B                           St. Phillip Boundary Mark               0.7    4.5
Hamden Road              P     L   PS-1                                 End of Penetrated Road                  0.5    4.5
Lashley Road             P     L   Highway N                            Cul De Sac                              0.9    4.V,
Merricks Road            P     L   Long Bay-SeaLy Hill                  CuL De Sac                              0.4    4.5
Mill Road                P     L   Long Bay-SeaLy Hill                  Cut De Sac                              0.3    4.5
PL-128                   P     L   Near Carrington Factory              Halton Highway 48                       1.7    4.5
River Road               P     L   Long Bay-Sealy HiLL                  Cut De Sac                              0.9    5.0
Robinson Road            P     L   Highway 5                            Cut De Sac                              0.3    5.0
Waterhall Road           S     L   St. Silas Road                       Cul De Sac                              0.4    3.5
Subtotal (1994/95):                                                                                            37.9    4.1
FOURTH YEAR PROGRAM (1995/96)
Chalky MouLit            A     L   Coggins Junction                     Coral Island Pottery                    1.2    5.0
Farell's Road            A     L   East Coast Junction                  Lakes                                   0.7    5.0
St. Simons               A     L   Haggatts Yard (Bus)                  St. Simons                              2.2    4.5
Battley #2               E     L   Highway 1                            Farm Road                               0.8    4.5
Four Hill                E     L   Rock Hall                            Orange Hill Junction                    3.4    4.0
Indian Ground            E     L   Four Hill                            Orange Hill Junction                    1.8    4.5
Millionaire Road         E     L   Highway 1 (Ashton Hall)              Cut De Sac                              0.6    4.5
Rock Dundo Via Gibbs    E      L   Highway 1                            St. James Border                        1.3    5.5
Faim Road                G     L   Ellerton Junction                    Harmony Cottage                         1.8    4.5
Walker Road              G     L   Toronto-Blemans Road Junction        Crawford Road Junction                  0.5    4.0
Workmans                 G     L   Free Hill                            Highway X (Gun Hill)                    1.7    5.0
Conset Bay Road          J     L   Highway H (College Bottom)           Cul De Sac                              1.4    4.5
Yearwood Road            M     L   Highway 1                            Fairfield Road                          0.4    4.5
Mellows Hill             0     L   Junction Off Parks                   Cattlewash Junction                     3.6    5.0
Surinam                  0     L   Horse Hill                           End of Penetrated Road                  0.6    5.0
Cottage Vale             P     L   PS-2                                 End of Road                             0.7    5.0
Eastbourne               P     L   Eastbourne #1                        Cut De Sac                              0.4    4.5
Gaskin Via Bushy Park   P      L   Highway M                            Cul De Sac                              0.7    4.5
Hampton                  P     L   Highway 5                            Highway 6 Junction                      1.2    4.5
River Road               P     L   Long Bay-Sealy Hill                  Cul De Sac                              0.9    5.0
CarLton 1st Ave.         S     L   Highway 1                            Link Road                               0.3    5.0
CarLton 2nd Ave.         S     L   Highway 1                            Link Road                               0.3    5.0
Cemetary Lane            S     L   Highway 1                            Molyneux (Junction)                     0.7    6.0
Crick Hill               S     L   Highway 1 Jun with St. Albans        Junction with Porters Road               1.3    5.0
Norwoods Road            S     L   Holders Hill                         Sandy Lane/Bennets Road Junction        1.7    4.0
Rock Dundo Road          S     L   Gibbes                               Rock Dundo                              2.1    5.0
Bagatelle Gardens        T     L   Redmana Village Road                 Highway 2A                              0.4    0.0
Highland                 T     L   Post Office                          Lion Castle Plantation Entrance         0.6    4.4
Walkers Spring           T     L   Walkes Spring                        Jack in the Box                          1.1    0.0
Bannatyne-Small Ridge   X      L   Highway U (Near Pole UKT 450)        Cart Road Junction                      0.4    4.0
Charnocks Road #3        X     L   Charnocks Road #1                    Cul De Sac (Signal Station)             0.4    4.5
Boby Village #4          X     L   Highway R (Edey Village)             Cut De Sac                              0.3    4.5
Subtotal (1995/96):                                                                                            35.4    4.5
TOTAL PROGRAM                                                                                             145.7    4.8
Parish Code: CA] St. Andrews; CEl St. Peter; EGl St. George; tJ] St. John; CM3 St. Michael; CO] St. Joseph
[Pl St. Philip; CS] St. James; CT] St. Thomas; EX] Christ Church.
Road Class:   [Pl Primary road;  ES] Secondary road;  EL] Local road.



BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD NAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MCU ROAD MAINTENANCE EOUIPHENT BY AGE AND CONDITION
TOTAL                  No. OF UNITS PER AGE GROUP lX OF TOTAL)              No. OF UNITS BY CONDITION (X OF TOTAL) Ca)
CAT.            EOUIPHENT             Nu4BER      ...............................................                ...............................................
CODE             CATEGORY            OF UNITS      0-3 YEARS   3-7 YEARS  7-11 YEARS  11-15 YEARS )15 YEARS        ACTIVE   NEED REPAIR  NEED REHAB. DISPOSAL
IN FLEET     No.  (X)   No.  lX)    No.  lX)   No.  (X)    No. (X)    No. (X)    No.  (X)   No. (X)   No. CX)
MAJOR EQUIPMENT
TIO  Trucks, dap or tipper               42         6   141    13   311    13   311        5   12X     5   121    23   55X      5   12X    15   36X      4   10X
T2O Trucks, ftat bed                     20               OX    16   aox      -    01      1    5x     3   151    17   851      7   35S      2   101     1    5X
T30  Trucks, special purpose Cb)         13          .    OX     2   151      2   151      5   38X     4   31X      6   46X     3   23X      4   31X     3   23X
114  End loader, skid steer type         18          5   28X    12   67X      1    6X           OX          OX    17  94X       4   221      1    61     -   O
145  Tractor loader, backhoe              7          3   43X    0-            -    OX      3   431     1   141      3   431           OX     3   43X     1   141
(c)  Tractors, varius types               a               OX     2   251      1   131     3   381      2   251      6   75X     1   13X      2   25      - ox
112  Front end toader, alt sizes         12          1    8      I    8X      3   251     2   171      5   42X      7 sBx       3   251      2   171     3   251
154  Roller, pedestrian                   4          4  1001           0X     -    0       -    01     -    01      4  1001     -    0O      -    01     -    01
ld)  Roller. others (all types)          30               oX     1    3X      1    3X     6   201    22   731       9   301     3  101       1    3X    20   67X
311  Air caW essor, w/hmmers              9          -    oX     -    0X      5   56X      4   44X          OX      6   671     2   221      3   33X     -   O
121 lotorgrader                           2          -     OX    1   501      -    OX      -    OX     1   501      1   501     1   501      -    OX     1  501
...   ...   ...      ...          ...         ...          ...---  --  ...          .....
Stbtotat aJor equipment:        165         19   121   48   291    26   16X    29   181    43   26X    99  601    29   181   33   201    33  20
NINOR EWIPINT
62 Asphalt sprayer, maal                 13          1    8S     5  38X       3  231       2  151      2  151       9 693       4  311       4  311      - 
521  Asphalt paver, self prop.            3          -    oX           0X     -    oX      3  1001         0       1   331          OX           OX     2   67 1t
l6l  Tamper - smell cmpactor            14               OX     -    0X      -    0X      -    01    14  1001      7   501     7   501    0-            7   501
141  Tractor w/fLaIr ower att.            I          -   0          -       0  1100       -    0       -    0X      1  1001     1  1001      -    0X          OX
?21  Bush cutter,. mmal                  12         (e) 01      (e) 01       (e)   0X    (0)01        Ce)   0X    12 1001       6  501            OX          0-
211  Special paint mrker                  3          -    01     2   671      -    OX      1   331          0       2   671     2   67       -    0      1  331
T01 Pick-up                              22         2    91      3   141      3   141    10   451      4   185    15   681      7   321      7   32X          OX
C07  Car                                  2          1 50X            OX           OX           OX     1 50X        1   50      -    OX      -    OX     1   501
181  Crane, self propetled                1          -    0X     -     X      -    0X     1  1001      -    0X      11001       11001        -    OX          0X
412  Traiter - small putt type            1               0X    0-                 OX      1 100       -    0      0    OZ     -    0       1  1001     -    0X
411  Trallers  lo boy type                I          -    0X     -    0            0%      1  100X     -    0X      0    0X          0X           0X     1  1001
512  Mixer. asphalt                       2          -    0X     2  1001           0X            -    OX    0       0    01     -    0X      -    0X     2 100
511  Mixer, concrete                      6          2   331     -    0X      -    01           0      4   67       2   33      2   331      -    01     4   671
711  Vibrator concrete                    5         Ce)   0X    (e)   0X    Ce)   0X    (e)   0X    (e)   0X       5  1001      5  1001      -    0X     -   OX
821  Uelder                               4         (e)  01    (e)   0X    (e)   0X    (e)  0O    Ce)   01          4  1001     2 501             0X          01
171  Thwaites &per                       28          -    0X          01           01    18   641    10   361    10   361       6   211     8 2         10  361
811 Plup-uater, all sizes                 5         2   401      -    0l           01     3   60       -    0      2   40       -    01      -    01     3   60X
831  Generator w/light plant              3          -    oX     3   00       -    0X     -    0X      -    oX     3  1001           OX           01     -    0X
...   ...         ...    ...         ...         ...          ...         ...                ...          ...
Subtotal mInor equipaent       126          8    8X    15   141      7    7X    40   38X    35   331    75   601    43   341    20   161    31   251
TOTALS                291      |27   101 63   231   3'   12X    69   261  78   29X1  174   601 n    25X    53   18X    64  22X
Notes:Ca) Four groups: 1) active, units currently in operation; ii) need repair, units in operation that will need major rqpair during the next four years;
iii) need rehabilitation, units to be rehabilitated in same period; iv) disposal, deadlined units to be disposed (rehabilitation not justified).                 i- l"
tb) Includes: tankers, water truck, asphalt truck, grab truck, tree trimer, and tractor truck.                                                                       0
(c) Includes: 3 tractor-bulldozers, 1 excavator, and 4 loader-crawlers.                                                                                              C1%
(d) Includes: 2 rubber-tyre, 6 steel-2-wheel, 21 steel-3-wheel, and 1 towed type.
Ce) Age data not available; subtotals by age group exclude these equipment units.



- 77 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RENABILITATZOH PROJECT
ROADS SELECTED FOR TIE ROUTINE-ANTN CE-BY-CONTRACT PILOT PROGRiAM
a^s,"Zw wZ"w"Zw---s-MZI- .................................................  c............. . . . .     ................
ROAD         PARISg                          SECT7ON                          LESGTH     wIDTH        SURFACE (b)    TrFFIC
NAE           (a)                FRCM                        TO                (km)        (m)       TYPE    CCND    (v/day)
.................. .......... !!............... 2,.....................- -.--.-.-.................... -.-..... -.-......----.-...........-- 
Primary Roads
Highway 5            M      Pole VM 575 (Map Hill)   Lover  itrmey                      0.9      6.0        AC        0       6,671
Highway 5            a      Lover Birney               Boarded  all Juncttou            3.2      6.0        AC        G       7,834
High ay 5            I      Boarded Hall Junction      Brigbton Junction                1.9      6.0        AC        G       2.736
Highway 5            0      Brighton Juncttio          Campaign Castle                  1.4      6.0        AC        G       6.042
Highway 5            S      Campaign Cacotl            Edgecumbe Junction               0.9      6 0        AC        G       5.671
Highway S            0      Edgocwube Junction         Robinson* (Long Bay Junct.)    8.9        6.0      AC-RP       r       4,079
Highway  B           0      Six Roads Junctton         g vay N CRirtonso                2.2      5.0        RP        V       3.130
Highway 7            X      Greame Hall Junction       Rock Ball                       10.7      6.0        AC        G       5.400
Htghv y N            P      Rock fall                  Sam Lord& Ccatlo                 9.0      7.0        AC        G       2,691
Highway P            X      Hway 5                     St. Patrick Junction             4.5      3.0        AC        0        1.455
Highway Q            X      B way 6                    Skemnee  BHll-Yorkshire          2.9      3.0        RP        F        1.909
Subtotal Primary Roadsc                                                                46.5      6.0                          40i4
Local Roads
Mangrove Rd.          P     Four Roads (Hvway SB)      Rock Hail (H'vay N)              3.6      S.0      AC-RP      C-F       N.A.
Berlin Rd. (*)        P     HBway 6                    St. Patrick                      1.1      5.0      AC-Rp      C-F       N.A.
Cave Land Rd.         P     Stroude Land (Riraons)    End of road                       0.6      4.5        RP        P        N.A.
Diamond Valley       P      Hway N Junction            Crane Junction                   2.0      5.0        RP        F        N.A.
Drakes Land           P     BRvay S                    Cul do sac                       1.7      5.0        Rp        P        N.A.
Foursquare Rd.        P     Four Roads                 Hvway 6 (Woodborne)              1.7      5.0        RP        0        N..
Garret Rd.            P     PS-6                       End of road                      0.7      4.5        RP        P        N.A.
Hamden Rd.            P     PS-I                       End of road                      0.5      4.5        RP        P        N.A.
Nampton Rd.           P     lIvay 3                    H'vay 6                          1.2      4.5        AC        P        N.A.
Harlington (4)        P     Haway N Junction           Cul de sac                       1.1      3.0        AC       0-F       N.A.
Harmony Lodge        P       ETay N                    Foul Bsay                        1.0      4.3        AC        G        N.A.
Noddings (*          P      Hway N (Rirtona)          HNdding Junction                  3.1      5.0        RP        F        N.A.
Highland              P     H vay 6                    H'vay 6                          0.6      5.0        AC        G        N.A.
Jesnay Lane           P  R way 5                       Cul. de sac                      0.4      5.0        RP        F        N.A.
Nursery Rd.           P     Hwvy SB                    Cul do sac                       0.9      4.5        RP        P        N.A.
Subtotal Local Roades                                                                  20.2      4;9                           N Ai
TOTAL ROUTINE-NAINTEHANCE-BY-CONTRACT PILOT PROGRAM                    66 7
(a) Parish Codes           l St. Michaell (GI St. George, CP3 St. PhiILp; and (XI Christ Church
(b) Surface Type:        AlJ Asphalt Concrete  ni and tRU) Penstration roads
Surface Condition:  CG  Good; (P1 fair; and [P3 Poor
vI Includes roads  1 an  #2
Table 8
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD tLUNTENANCE AM REABILIT ATION PROJECT
3OUTZHE. NAhTEACE-BY CONTRACT PILT PROGM  1992/93.1993/94
Program prepared fore Road links under BM1C Pilot Program                                             Road Network Lengtht 66.7 km
.       ...      ..............                   .....    f.. .... .           -- -  --  ...................     . ...
MNANTENCE ACVITIES (a)                      |     ROAD FEATURE INVEITORY      | PROGRAM COST CTWO.YEAR PROGRAM)
.._.    __._ ................... z _ _ _
ACTIVITY                    ACCOMLISaGRRT          ZND)' INVENTORT                   VIORE    UNIT COST TOTAL COST
CODE            VANE                            UNIT              Or UNITS           UN7T           QUNATITT    (90s)       (BD$)
1010 Pot Bole Patching               tous of AC six placed           123   lae I= of paved rds.          956       344.5    329.371
1020 Re radin Un aved Shoulders    km of *houlder regraded             8    Cm of unpaved should.         58    1,093.2      63.407
1040 Jolnt & Crack Sealing           lure of emulsion placed         123    lana Cm of psved rdt.      8,174         2.8     23.01S
1110 Drain Cleaoing Manal            kn of drain cleaned              71    Cm of pav/unp. ditee         44    7,777.9    342.22S
1120 Drain Cleaning Mechanical       km of drain cleaned              66    km of unpaved diteb s        132       384.0     77,08S
1130 Culvert Cleant                  No. of culvert  cleaned          59    No. of culverts               90       493.6     44.428
.140 W.ll Cleaning                   a3 of wells cleaned              49    No. of wells                  22      255.1       5.612
1210 Traffic SigonMaintenance        No. of signs repaired           359    Ho. of signs                  32       204.1     10,61U
1220 Traffic Sign Instalations       Ho. of signs installed          359    go. of signs                  52       250.3    '13.023
1230 Guard Rail Rapair*              ltn. a of fences rqplacod         2    C, of  urdr./fances          282        76.7     1    5
1230 Special Pavement Markinge       No. of ep. rks panted           123    lane lC of d ved rds.         46       240.4     11.J57
1310 Weeding Manual                  1m of roaddided weeded          124    km of road* de                66       929.2     79,911
1320 Weeding Mechanb cal             km of roadasded weeded          124    km of roadside               336        94.0     31,97
1330 Tree Trimaing 6 Removing        No. of trees trimmd                    global estimate                0
1410 Bridge Maintenance              go. of bridges repaired           .      mber                         0                     134
1420 Culvert Ma tenance              No  of culvorts repaired         39       ber                        18       309.6     640,16
1430 Repair of Concrete Slipper      lin. v of kerba replaced         31    ailpl bm                     410        45.1   tO .0I
1310 Emergency Activities            man days used                     a     lobal estimate              440       113.3     49.834
1610 Prcacs ting^                    aS of concrete used               -    global eatimate              100       200.7     20.068
__ _ ,~~... ,,.. ,,.... ,.. _____._.................._._._...... ___...... ___...  -----
TOTAL ROUTINE-MAXNTEWCE.BY.CONTRACT PILOT PROGRAM  (Two-year Program)                                    1,287,075
. a...........*fl                .       a.. ..aa.         .     SaS.. .          S**~~~~~~~..........
(a) The list of activities and work quantities wil be revLewed during preparation oC bid package  Sone of these activities
be divided into different itms to facilitate their tndering, measurement and paymnt.



_78 -
ANNEPX 2
Page 1 of 8
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
for a Study of the Rationalization
of the Public Tranasort Svstem ir B&rbadoe
obilctis e
1.          The Study's objectives are to:
(a)   identify the most appropriate mix of publicly and privately owned
bus transport to meet public passenger transport demand for
Barbados; and
(b)   determine the optimal organizational, operational and regulatory
structure that will meet the requirements of this system at the
least overall cost to the consumer and Government.
Background
2.          Passenger transport in Barbados is shared by the publicly-owned bus
company, the Transport Board, with a fleet of about 180 buses, and private
operators of minibuses (carrying 31 passenger) and maxi-taxis (carrying 10
passengers) in addition to regular taxis. There are 195 minibuses, 174 maxi-
taxis and 1200 regular taxis in operation.   The Ministry of Public Works,
Communications and Transportation (MCW) assigns routes to minibuses, generally
along corridors leading in and out of Bridgetown.
3.          The Transport Board carries about 26 million passengers a year and
employs about 1,500 people, of which about 1,000 are either drivers or
conductors. It operates according to a published route and time schedule and
services all areas in Barbados. Passenger fare, determined by the Government,
is currently BDS $1.50 throughout the country with discounts for students and
senior citizens.
4.          The Transport Board has suffered operating losses since 1976 and has
relied on Government support to conduct its operations. The main _easons for the
loses were operating inefficiencies (a ratio of about 7 employees per bus),
deficient maintenance of the bus fleet, and increasing competition from minibuses
along the most lucrative passenger routes. The Government subsidy peaked in
1987/88 at a level of BDS $22 million; in recent years it has been between BDS
$10 and $15 million. In addition, the Government hAs customarily financed the
Transport Board's capital expenditures, mainly for bus purchases (e.g., BDS $6.7
million in 1990/91 and BDS $2.3 million in 1991/92).



- 79 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 8
Scooe of Work
5.          The Study is to be divided into four components:
(a)   Review of Existina Situation.   This component will analyze the
existing public transport system.
(b)   Definiticn and Analysis of Future ODtions.   This component will
define and compare the options for providing public transport on the
island, with a view to (i.) determining the most appropriate public
transport system both economically and socially; and (ii) reducing
or eliminating Government subsidies to public bus transport.
(c)   Policy and Institutional Framework.  This component will define the
policy, planning, organizational and regulatory requirements for the
adequate management of the preferred public bus transport option.
It will include (i) the definition of the role of a Public Transport
Authority/Commission which would have overall responsibility for the
regulation of public transport; and (ii) the definition of the
future roles of the Transport Board (if still in existence) and
privately-owned public transit systems.
(d)   Imolementation  Reauirements.    This  component  will  formulate
re,.ommendations with regard to the implementation of the new public
transport sys:em, if appropriate, and define the need, if any, for
further technical assistance.
Review of Existinc Situation
6.          This component will cover, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following activities, investigations and outputs:
(a)   Review of previous studies on bus transport in Barbados  (see
Appendix A) and definition of the existing bus network and services.
(b)   Using existing data sources, collecting the relevant existing ard
projected socio-economic and demographic data on population and its
distribution, education demand (transport of school children),
industrial, tourism and other development, income distribution,
vehicle ownership, road users, costs, public transport patronage by
route and by service usage, et cetera.  (Some data are available
from the last census and regular quarterly sample household surveys
c&rried out by tovernment).
(c)   Identify data gaps and fill them using limited surveys (in particu-
lar, it is envisaged that some roadside counts may be required to
determine the relative importance of the publicly and orivately
owned bus systems).



- 80 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 8
(d)   Using existing data sources, and only limited new data collection,
study existing bus, mini-bus, route-taxi and normal taxi operations
using cost data obtained from interviews with transport owners and
analysis of available financial data.  The investigations shall
separate general passengers from subsidized passengers such as
school children, old age pensioners and police, and distinguish by
trip type, length, et cetera. The Consultants will prepare sJionle
operating cost models for the different types of service.
(e)   Review the present institutional framework for public transport in
Barbados and identify possible impediments to the implementation of
any proposed changes to this framework.  This shall include an
analysis of functions, responsibilities and level of authority of
the different entities participating in the provision of public
transport a,. they actually exist.
(f)   Review and evaluate the existing legislation as it relates to Public
Transport ii. Barbados including that which relates to public
transport management, including environmental considerations, and
the institutional and enforcement provisions.
(g)   Examine and assess the impact of the legislation on public transport
management policies.
Definition and Analvsis of Future options
7.          This  component will define  and  analyze  the  options  for the
organization of public transport in Barbados.
(a)   Define future optiono for study, including -
(1)         Maintaining the present relative role of the Transport
Board and private operators and deveioping an action
plan involving reorganization of the Transport Board,
staff reductions, improvements of the route and frequen-
cy schedule, modification to maintenance facilities -
sub option (a) with subsidies; sub option (b) without
subsidies.
(ii)        The Transport Board becoming an independent, government
corporation operating a fleet of, say 50 to 100 buses
providing an agreed range of services - sub option (a)
with subsidies; sub option (b) without subsidies.
(iii)       The complete privatization of the public transport
system through the sale of Transport Board assets to the
public - sub option (a) with subsidies; sub option (b)
without subsidies.



- 81 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
($v)        The privatization of the public transport system with
the Transport Board becoming an employee-owned operation
- sub option (a) with subsidies; sub option (b) without
subsidies.
(When developing the options, the consultants should consider how subsidies, if
any, can be effectively targeted, if franchLe tendering could be useful and how
socially desirable but uneconomic routes should be served).
(b)   Analysis and comparison of options including the following informa-
tion:
(i)         Brief description of the option.
(ii)        Organization and regulatory framework for the option.
(iLi)       Estimates of ridership by mode.
(iv)        Impact of alternative fares structures.'
(v)         Aggregate costs, economic costs and cost recovery for
each type of bus service.
(vi)        Level of subeidy required.
(vii)       Provide a comparative evaluation of policy options,
including related environmental ones and prepare an
evaluation matrix showing the advantages and disadvaa-
tages of each solution.
(c)   Make recommendation to Government on the most appropriate option.
Policy and Institutional Framework
8.          This component will define in detail the action required to implement
the chosen option.
(a)   Refine the policy changes required to implement the selected option.
These actions should include the areas of administration, regula-
tion and financing.
(b)   Define the appropriate inetitutional framework for the implementa-
tlon of the selected option including a plan for the changes
required within existing institutions and the creation of any new
entitles such as a new transport authority.
The fare structure utilized shall be so varied as to cover (a) flat
fares, (b) stage fares, (c) zonal fares, and (d) special fares.



- 82 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 8
(C)   Outline the functions of the transport authority and design the
organizational structure that will enable this entity to develop
long-term planning and effective public transport management
strategies.
(d)   Recommend  amendments  that  will  update  and/or  consolidate  the
existing legislation as it relates to Public Transport.
(e)   Prepare drafting instructions for the implementation of the chosen
option.
(f)   Review the present regulations concerned with the presentation of
operating and financial information to the Government or transport
authority and make appropriate recommendations for revisions.
(g)   Develop the framework for a transport planning data base system,
including the relevant environmental data, and establish a system
for managing it in the future using the data collected for this
study as the initial inputs.
(h)   Identify and prepare the transport planning processes to be used for
the management and monitoring of the accepted transport option.
This shall include an identification of transport analysis require-
ments, the organization of the transport planning process, and an
identification of the appropriate software.
(i)   Examine the existing regulations and procedures governing the use
and mainte.iance of vehicles in the public transport system and make
appropriate recommendations for change.
(j)   Examine the existing regulations governing the operation of bus
depots, terminals, and bus stops.
Implementation Reauirements
9.          Under this component the Consultant will provide a detailed programme
for the implementation of the chosen option:
The Consultants will be required to:
(a)   produce a detailed implementation plan for the various restructuring
measures connected with the implementation of the accepted public
bus transport system;
(b)   identify costs and potential sources of financing;



- 83 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 8
(C)   specifically propose programmes to achieve economical performance
and cost effective use of vehicles which are used for the purposes
of public transport.   This shall include the formulation of a
comprehensive human resource development programme for all catego
ries of persons within the public transport system.
(d)   make recommendations as regards the need for short-term technical
assistance to help the Government in introducing and implementing
the new structure for public transport, including in particular the
establishment of an on-going transport planning systems, the
creation of a Transport Authority, and the reorganization of the
Transport Board operations; and
(e)   provide Terms of Reference, task descriptions and expertise profiles
for the technical assistance requirements defined under the
foregoing paragraph.
Timeframe and ReDortina
10.         The Study is required to be completed within thirty six (36) weeks
from commencement and will be executed in two (2) stages.
Staae I
11.         This stage will cover the activities described under paragraph 3.2.
Review of the Existino Situation, and 3.3. Definition and Analysis of Options and
should be completed within the following time frame:
Cumulative
Weeks
Contract signature                    0 weeks               -
Start of work                         4                     4
Submission of Inception Report        2                     6
Submission of Stage 1 Report and
recommendations in draft             14                    20
Government/EDF comments and
instructions to proceed to Stage
2 on the basis of identified
accepted system option                4                    24



- 84 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 8
Staae II
12.         This stage will cover the activities described under paragraph 3.4
Policy and Institutional Framework and 3.5 Imolementation Reauirements and should
be completed within the following time frame:
Cumulative
Weeks
Instructions by Government to proceed
with Stage 2                               0 weeks            24
Submission draft Stage 2 Report            6  "               26
Government/EDF comments                    4  "               30
Submission of Final Report Stage 1 and 2  2  "                36
13.         The Reports are to be submitted.
Inception Report                           12 copies
Draft Report:
to the Government                       12 copies
to EDF                                   3 copies
Final Report
to the Government                       20 copies
to the EDF                               5 copies
The Executina Aaencv
14.         The Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Transportation is
the agency of the Government of Barbados with executive responsibility for the
subject of public transport. The Ministry of Public Works, Communications and
Transportation shall therefore have executive responsibility on behalf of the
Government of Barbados for the conduct of the Study.
15.         The Permanent Secretary is the principal administrative officer of
the Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Transportation. The study team
shall therefore work in close liaison with the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Public Works, Communications and Transportation and all reports shall be
submitted to that official.



-85 -
*                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX a
Page 8 of a
Reartg Relevantntto Transpr_t Board
1.    The Transport Board Barbados - A Survey
United Transport Overseas - February 1973
2.    Report on Monthly Management Accounts of the Transport Board
F.J. Fennell - December 1974
3.    Report on the Transport Board
Dr. C.N. Blackman and others - June 1980
4.    Barbados Surface Transportation Study
Wilbur Smith and Associates - October 1980
S.    Report on the Transport Board
William E. Griswold, Headway Associates - February 1984
6.    Further Observation on the Operation of the Barbados Transport Board
William S. Griswold, Headway Associates - April 1984
7.    Evaluation Report of Transport Board Operation Department
January 1987
8.    Report on Transport Board
(Prepared for Cabinet) - January 1987
9.    Public Transport in Barbadoss  Some Measures for Improvement, Thesis for
Diploma in Transport and Development
Desmond Sabir - 1987
10.   Barbados Bus Survey
O.C. Verlo - October 1987
11.   Special Report on Fleet Replacement Programme (1988 - 1993)
February 1988
12.   Review of Taxi Operations - BDB 1988



- 86 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for MCW
in Road Maintenance and Zauliment Manaoement
Background
1.    Barbados has a well-developed road network consisting of about 1,550 km.
With the expansion of the road network substantially completed, providing
adequate maintenance is being assigned the highest priority. Efforts undertaken
to improve maintenance management under the IBRD-financed (first) Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project included creation in 1984 of the
Maintenance Management Section (MMS) within MCW's Operations Division and
technical assistance provided by consultants in equipment and road maintenance
management. The technical assistance in equipment management started early in
1988 and totalled four man-months. To date, an Equipment Management System (EMS)
has been designed and adopted by the Workshop, and an inventory of all but small
equipment has been completed. In addition, to strengthen workshop management,
MCW has recently appointed a Senior Mechanical Engineer and currently is in the
procesn of reassigning some functions among its staff, according to an
organizational chart discussed with the consultants. With the EMS having been
designed, further assistance is needed to ensure its full implementation,
particularly the cost accounting and equipment management policies that depend
on feedback from the steady application of the system.
2.    The technical assistance in road maintenance, amounting to six man-months,
started in September, 1989, with financing under the IBRD (first) Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project. Its overall objective was establishing
a Highway Maintenance Management System (HMMS). During this period, MCW set up
the MKS to support the development of the HMMS, appointed additional staff, and
purchased computers and a roughness meter, and designated in 1991 a Technical
Committee (TC), which conisists of key personnel from MCW's operations and
Workshop division, to period i.cally review the manuals, performance standards and
reporting systems of the HMMS and facilitate its implementation.   On the
technical side, the first roadway feature inventory of the whole network was
completed in 1991 and several components of the HMMS were defined, including
maintenar.ce performance standards and a field operations manual. In addition,
development of computer programs to facilitate maintenance planning started in
1991 with IBRD assistance. However, the HMMS has not yet been installed in the
field and its procedures not tested. Hence, additional technical assistance is
needed to ensure its full implementation, introduce improved maintenance
practices through its application, and provide the necessary training of
supervisors and maintenance crews to support it.



- 87 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
Obiectives
2.    The technical assistance aims at strengthening MCW's capacity to plan and
carry out more efficient road maintenance operations through supporting full
implementation of the HMMS and EMS in MCW's headquarters and maintenance
districts.  Specifics objectives are to:
(a)   improve the quality of road maintenance by upgrading work methods,
providing levels of service consistent with road functional classes,
and deliverJng opportune and responsive maintenance services;
(b)   increase productivity of maintenance operations by imprcving work
scheduling practices, establishing uniform performance standards and
monitor performance of maintenance crews;
(c)   assist in preparation of a priority-based maintenance performance
plan and allocation of resources, supported by dependable
information feedback from the field;
(d)   improve utilization of MCW's maintenance equipment through adequate
management of MCW's Workshop operations and enhanced coordination
between workshop and field forces;
(e) monitor maintenance operational costs and other maintenance related
expenditures,   providing  the  necessary  interface  with  the
government's budgetary system; and
(f)   assess cost-effectiveness and relative quality of the Routine-
Maintenance-by-Contract Pilot Program and the Periodic Maintenance
Program performed by private contractors against force account work.
Scope of the Assistance
3.    The technical assistance will focus on field implementation.  All of the
aspects of the HMMS and EMS will be tested and upgraded according to the
experience gained during their implementation. The consultants will assist MCW's
Operations and Workshop divisions in strengthening road maintenance management
and in achieving an adequate level of efficiency, as expressed by MCW's action
plan for road maintenance improvement, included under the (IBRD-financed) Second
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project.  In particular, the consultants
hired under this technical assistance will perform the following main tasks:
(a)   reviewing   current   maintenance   procedures,   policies   and
organizational capabilities within MCW and the districts;
(b)   assisting MCW in the implementation of all aspects of HMM4S in a
pilot district;
(c)   upgrading work methods;
(d)   reviewing performance standards;
(e)   setting up  an  accounting  system  capable  of monitoring  MCW's
expenditures according to specific tasks, reporting actual equipment
cost performance, and providing the necessary interface between the
existing budgetary system and both HMMS and EMS;
(f)   implementing the recommendations of the Road Network Rationalization
Study (RNRS), defining maintenance activities, levels-of-service and



- 88 -
ANNIX 3
Page 3 of 7
quantity standards as needed for preparation and implementation of
maintenance  plans  according  to  the  maintenance  strategies
recommended by the study;
(g)   expanding the HMHS to all maintenance districts;
(h)   assisting MCW in developing the Routine-Maintenance-by-Contract
(RMBC) Pilot Program;
(i)   assessing the efficiency of road maintenance operations carried out
by both force account and contract;
(j)   assisting the workshop management in the implementation of all
aspects of EMS and the establishment of policies geared at reducing
fleet operation costs and improving equipment availability and
methods of equipment assignment to the districts; and
(k)   training MCW's maintenance personnel.
4.    Reviewina current maintenance procedures.  policies and organizational
capabilities within MCW and the districts.  The consultants will review the
current maintenance policies used by MCW and organization set-up, particularly
in the districts, in order to assess their efficiency and scope in relation to
the implementation of the HMMS island-wide.   The consultants will point out
deficiencies ii both technical and organizational matters that could hinder
implementation of the HMMS, as well as mechanisms to overcame such deficiencies
and sequence in which these mechanisms should be implemented according to their
relevance for the implementation of the HMNS. After agreement with the Technical
Committee, these findings will he turned into an action plan, which in addition
to guiding the consultant efforts, will also facilitate assignment of MCW's
counterpart staff.
S.    Assistina MCW in the implementation of all asoects of the HMMS in a pilot
district. The viability of all aspects of HMMS, especially field work scheduling
and reporting procedures, will be tested first on a pilot district to generate
basic field data and allow for fine tuning at an early stage. In this phase, the
technical assistance will give special attention to the adequate use of the
reporting procedures by field crews to ensure they supply timely, useful and
accurate information as required while ascertaining that the design of the
information sheets provides for easy use in the field. In addition, this close
monitoring of field practices will enable the consultants to validate the
definition of maintenance activities, maintenance performance standards, quantity
standards and unit costs used by MKS to prepare maintenance performance plans.
The consultants will ensure that these elements of the HMMS, as implemented, are
capable of providing a common baeis for measuring program compliance, unit costs,
resource usage, productivity and other management and technical indicators.
Finally, the implementation of the pilot program will enable the consultant to
identify areas in which additional training is required.
5.    Upgradina work methods. The consultants will assess work methods currently
used by maintenance forces, analyzing such aspects as technology applied, use of
equipment, composition and skills of crews, and quality control practices.
Consequently, they will introduce improved work practices tailored to local
conditions, and create checklists and other simple guidelines to help supervision
and quality control of work in the field.



- 89 -
ANNX 3
Page 4 of 7
6.    settina up a cost accountina svstem.   The consultants will set up a
computerized cost accounting system to support the cost estimation and analysis
systems recommended under the HMMS and EMS for road maintenance, equipment and
spare parts management purposes. This system will enable MCW tot l) monitor its
payments and expenditures on road maintenance according to work progreso; ii)
determine actual direct and overhead costs of maintenance activities carried out
by force account, and of supervisory coats of activities performed by contract;
iii) develop and charge equipment rental rates and report actual equipment cost
performance against the planned budgets; and iv) provide the necessary interface
between the existing budgetary system and the maintenance and equipment
management systems to enable the reconciliation of costs and resource usage.
7.    Izmplementina the recommendations of the Road Network  ationaliztsin Studv
LRNRS).  The results of the Road Network Rationalization Study will have a
significant impact on both MCW'e maintenance policies and the Four-Year
Maintenance Plan, as it will examine which roads need to be left without any
maintenance, which ones need to be maintained to less than paved standard, and
what activities, and in what frequency, are justified for each road in the
remaining network.   The consultants will assist MCW in implementing the
recommendations of the study, developing guidelines to interpret and carry out
the policy recommendations through the maintenance management process and
incorporating in HMMS all adjustments needed in this respect, such as defining
appropriate levels-of-service and quantity standards for each maintenance
activity and road category, and new malntenance activities. The consultants will
also assist MCW in formulating updated maintenance programs and reorganizing
MCW's maintenance forces.
8.   Exoandina the HMMS to all maintenance districts. As soon as the viability
of the HMMS in the pilot district is demonstrated, the implementation of the
system will be expanded to all the remaining districts. The consultants will
strengthen the district's ability to develop and monitor weekly or bi-weekly
programs tailored to reflect work priorities, the availability of maintenance
resources (personnel, equipment and materials) and special conditions (urgent or
emergency situations). During this phase, the consultants will assist the TC in
monitoring progress in the installation of HNNS at both the central and district
level and adherence to its procedures and standards. Fo.r this purpose, the
consultants will prepare management evaluation reports, such as monthly
maintenance activities reports, district monthly work progress and cost summary
reports to be discuseed with all district technicians during the TC's meetings.
In addition, the consultants will guide XCW in the preparation of annual
maintenance reports, evaluating results accomplished by MCW in terms of
compliance with the annual work plan and budget, adherence to maintenance
performance standards and other indicator of efficiency, and evolutlon of the
network condition during the period.
9.    An6is 'w0 MCW in develo_ ina the Routine-Maintenance-by-Contract  (RMECE
pilot Program. The consultants will assist NCW in the supervision and evaluation
of the RMBC Pilot Program. The main objective of this pilot program is to obtain
experience on costs, quality of work, supervision needs, and benefits and
disadvantages of contract maintenance as compared with force account maintenance.



- 90 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
In this respect, the consultants will: i) advise MCW's program coordinator on
best procedures to perform supervisory tasks while ensuring that performance and
cost data are being adequately collected; ii) establish procedures to colle !t
performance and cost data needed to evaluate the results of the program; iii)
recommend improved procedures with respect to planning, budgeting, tendering,
supervising, and administering maintenance by contract; and iv) introduce the
necessary adjustments to contract documents and procedures, standards and
specifications to be used in the subsequent phase of the program.
10.   Assessina the efficiency of road maintenance operations carried out by both
force account and contract. The technical assistance will assess the comparative
costs, benefits, and quality of maintenance work --routine and periodic-- carried
out by contract and force account. The comparison of contract maintenance with
force account maintenance will be based on performance and cost data (including
direct, overhead and supervision costs) obtained from the RMBC pilot program, the
evaluation of force account operations through the HMMS and EMS, and the
execution of periodic maintenance contracts (overlay program). This analysis
will look at differences in aspects such as: quality of meterials and
workmanship; selection of appropriate equipment, including use of specialized
equipment; compliance with work specifications and safety standards; success in
handling road traffic through work zones; level of supervision required;
flexibility and time required to respond to emergencies and other unscheduled
work; and response to increased or peak workloads. The consultants will also
identify those activities which showed greater cost-efficiency when carried out
by force account, and vice versa, in order to facilitate future decisions on
contracting. Based on these findings, the consultants will make recommendations
regarding: i) possibilities for increasing productivity of force account
operations in view of the results of the RMBC pilot program; and ii) planning,
financing, supervision, and administrative requirements for effective preparation
and execution of maintenance work by contract (including selection of work iteme
to be contracted and measurement units; type, scope and duration of contracts;
procurement procedures for contracting, payment provisions and procedures, and
bidding documents; frequency of inspection, the form of reporting, and
recommended practices for supervision of contracted maintenance).
11. Assistina Workshop's manacement in the implementation of all aspects of
EMS. The consultants will assist MCW's Workshop in analyzing the data on the
availability and use of MCW's equipment fleet according to the EMS, and
i.msplementing the programs and policies on equipment management derived from these
analyses. This task will require: i) development of productivity performance
standards for most frequent tasks carried out in the Workshop; ii) preparation
of specifications and technical documents for procurement of new equipment
(including requirements for critical spare parts items and on-site training for
servicing, minor repair and adjustment procedures); iii) guidance during the
execution of the equipment rehabilitation program; iv) preparation of a program
for disposal of obsolete and costly-to-operate equipment; and iv) developing an
engine oil analysis program to enhance EMS' equipment preventive maintenance
program, to be contracted out; vi) establishing a computerized spare parts
inventory capable of maintaining a file of all parts stocked in the workshop
together with balances on hand, in order to analyze parts usage, generate stock



- 91 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
management information and process accounting transactions for parts issued,
receipts, and adjustments.
12.   Trainina MCW's maintenance personnel.  To achieve the objectives of this
technical assistance, training for improved productivity is essential.   The
consultants will provide on-the-job training to the counterpart personnel
assigned by MCW, making them effectively participate in all technical assistance
activities to ensure full knowledge of procedures and systems developed by the
consultants. Based on the findings of the pilot district, the consultants will
prepare and assist MCW in delivering a comprehensive training program to support
a complete implementation of the HMMS and EMS. This program will be conveniently
targeted at technicians, supervisors and other workers, and its content will vary
according to the specific needs of these groups. The consultants will also set
up a system for the evaluation and control of the training programs, and provide
technical training to instructors selected among MCWIs staff, in order to ensure
the continuity of the maintenance training program once the consultant's services
are completed.
Staffina
13    The technical assistance will be carried out over a period of 24 months by
the following specialists:
i)    a  road  maintenance  engineer  with  background  in  maintenance
management systems, maintenance operations by force account, routine
and periodic maintenance by contract, computer systems, and training
personnel, who will be the program leader (18 months);
ii)   an equipment and workshop specialist, with experience in equipment
management systems (9 months);
iii) a specialist in maintenance cost accounting, with experience in
computerized systems (9 months);
Executing Agencv and Counterpart Staff
14.   MCW Technical Department, through its Operations and Workshop Divisions,
will be the executing agency. Currently, Operatiors is in charge of managing
road maintenance operations through seven districts, which are responsible for
field operations.    The Maintenance Management  Sec_ion  (MMS),  within the
Operations Division, is in charge of maintenance planning and evaluation. The
utilization and control of all maintenance equipment come under the
responsibility of the Workshop division.   To strengthen its capacity to
effectively coordinate maintenance activities, MCW has appointed a Technical
Committee, which meets twice a month. MCW will designate among its permanent
staff at the central office and the districts the counterpart personnel to be
assigned to the consutltants.



- 92 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
Schedule and Reoorts
15.    The technical assistance will start early in 1993.  A tentative schedule
of tasks is outlined below:
Months                     1                           2
Tasks  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0  1 2 3 4
(a)
(b)  ********.****
(c)
(d)
(e)  *****************              *****oo
(f)
(g)                  ******                 ************
(h)
(i)
Ci)  *.*******.**********
(k)    ****t*****************.**************'***********************
16.    Both HNMS and EMS should be made operational in all districts by December
31, 1993.  The consultants will submit the following reports:
SCODe                                             Date
initial Analysis and plan of action        By end of month 1
Implementation of HMMS in Pilot district    At completion of task (b)
Implementation of recomuendations of RNRS   At completion of task (f)
Evaluation of RMBC Pilot Program           At completion of task (i)
Work progress reports                      Quarterly
Draft final report                         By end of month 23
Final Report                               30 days after receipt of
MVW's comments



- 93 -
AMNX -4
Fage 1 of 3
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
to strengthen MCW's Maintenance Manaaement Section
Backaround
1.    In, 1984 MCW created, within its Operations Division, the Maintenance
Management Section (MMS)I to monitor the quality and efficiency of maintenance
activities performed by MCW's forces. Further, in November, 1987, MCW entered
into an agreement with the U.S. Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) to provide
technical assistance in several areas.   The technical assistance in road
maintenance --totalling eight man-months-- was launched in September, 1989, with
the overall objective of establishing a Highway Maintenance Management System
(HMMS). During this period, MMS was set up to support the development of the
HMMS: additional staff was appointed and computers were purchased in mid-1990.
The first roadway feature inventory of the island's 1570 km of highways was
completed by January, 1991 and several components of the HMMS were defined,
incluling maintenance performance standards and a field operations manual. In
addition, MCW appointed a Technical Committee (TC) --consisting of key personnel
from MCW's Operations and Workshop divisions-- to periodically review the
manuals,  standards and reporting systems of the HMMS and facilitate its
implementation. Also, in 1991 MMS began operating a Mays Ride Meter to measure
pavement roughness and developing computer programs to facilitate maintenance
planning.   However, such progress has been adversely affected by the recent
layoffs of some of MMS staff under the retrenchment program and the retirement
of its Head.   Although MMS has been partially restaffed by reassignment of
personnel from other units within the Operations Divisions, there is an urgent
need to strengthen the MMS, train its new staff, and assist the Technical
Committee to enable full development and implementation of the HMMS.
Obiectives
2.    The overall objective of the technical assistance is to improve maintenance
planning and monitoring by strengthening MMS' capacity to: i) prepare needs-based
annual maintenance plans and work calendars! Li) update the roadway feature
inventory and other information systems on a periodic basis; iii) assist the
districts in scheduling and reporting work programs; iv) report monthly on work
accomplishments, work cost and productivity, and evaluate the results achieved
during the implementation of the work programs; and v) update from time to time
performance standards, cost estimates, and quality and quantity standards,
according to recommendations of the TC.
l/Initially this section was named Method and Analysis, and staffed with a Senior
Technician and a supervisor.



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
Scope of the Assistance
3.    The consultant hired under this technical assistance will perform the
following main taskss
(a)   assisting the Head of MMS in the implementation of HMMS and training
MMS staff;
(b)   reviewing road inventory sections and preparing districts maps,
appropriate for use in maintenance operations;
(c)   upgrading  the  roadway  feature  inventory  and  data  collection
procedures;
(d) developing computer programs to support the application of HMHS in
maintenance planning and evaluation;
(e)   assisting tha Tecnnical Committee in reviewing HMMS's components;
(f)   updating MCW's Four-Year Maintenance Plan;
(g)   preparing the Periodic Maintenance Program to be carried out by
MCW's Operations Division and the Routine-Maintenance-By-Contract
(RMBC) Pilot Program;
4.    Assisting the Head of MMS in the imoiementation of HMMS and trainina MMS
staff. The consultant will help the new Head of MMS --to be designated-- in
getting acquainted with all aspects of the development of HMMS and in
reorganizing MMS's teams. In order to develop the specialized skills required,
MMS' staff will be grouped into two units: i) Roadway Feature Inventory Unit,
which will be in charge of updating road inventories and condition surveys --
including measurement of pavement roughness with the Mays Ride Meter (MRM)--; and
ii) Planning, Evaluation and Control Unit, which will be responsible for
preparation of maintenance plans and evaluation of work. The consultant will
prepare job descriptions and skill requirements for each position within this
units ard will train the designated staff accordingly. While overseeing the
tasks performed by MMS staff, the consultant will provide on-the-job training in
all aspects related to the implementation of the HMMS. Special attention will
be devoted to training of staff assigned to the operation of MRM; this
comprehensive training program will cover theory and practice regarding: i)
calibration with test sections; ii) ) equipment operation and use of software for
data collection; iii) use of control sections; and iv) data analysis and
applications. The consultant will also provide technical assistance to the TC
through field testing of all aspects of the HMMS, helping the committee in
reviewing the HMMS' components and the procedures to be followed under the
system. In this regard, he will prepare short guidelines and follow-up reports
to be distributed to technicians and discussed at TC's meetings.
5.      Reviewing road inventory sections and preDarino districts ma2s.  The
consultant will review the current road sections defined in the inventory to
ensure that they are homogeneous in terms of traffic, pavement type,
organizational limits (districts and parishes) and easily identified in the
field. Then, he will prepare appropriate maps of all roads within a district
with all road sections clearly identified, in order to enable their utilization
by maintenance crews for work scheduling and reporting purposes. A code will be
assigned to each road segment to facilitate its identification in the system.



- 95 _
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
6.    Upgrading the roadway feature inventory and data collection Rrocedures.
The technical assistance will review the scope and consistency of the information
available through the Roadway Feature Inventory as well as the efficiency and
reliability of the data collection procedures.   Based on this, he will: i)
establish procedures to incorporate roughness and traffic data into the
inventory, and perform more objective pavement condition surveys; ii) assist MMS
in the implementation of the Bridges, Culverts and Wells Inventory; iii) organize
and oversee updating of the road inventory; and iv) assist the Traffic Unit in
implementing the Road Signs Inventory and a computerized Road Traffic Inventory,
compatible with the MMS' information systems.
7.    Developina computer Programs to sunoort the aoilication of HMMS  in
maintenance  vlannino  and  evaluation.    The  consultant  will  continue  the
development of computer programs to enhance the capabilities of the Maintenance
Planning and Budgeting software. These new programs will support preparation of
annual work calendars, evaluation and control of maintenance works, and
preparation of management reports. In addition, the consultant will assist the
Senior Mechanical Engineer in developing computerized information systems
compatible with those used by the MMS.
8.    Updatina MCW's Four-Year Maintenance Plan.  The consultant will guide MMS
staff through a complete application of all HMMS components as well as the
computer software developed to support some of its phases.   Particularly,
updating MCW's performance maintenance plans for the years 1993/94-1995/96 will
become necessary once the road inventory is updated and results from the 1992/92
maintenance plan are known.   In addition, the consultant will assist the
Operations Division in the preparation of the documents needed to implement the
RMBC Pilot Program.
9.    PreDaring the Periodic Maintenance Program to be carried out by MCW's
Otperations Division and the Routine-Maintenance-By-Contract (RMBCl Pilot Program.
This task will require the selection of road sections to be included in MCW's
Resealing and Overlay Programs as well as the RMBC pilot program, preparation of
work programs, and, in the case of the RMBC pilot program, preparation of
appropriate tendering documents.
Staff ina
10.   The technical  ae-istance will be provided by a specialist  in road
maintenance management and computerized systems. It is envisaged that 18 man-
months will be needed to complete the tasks described above.
Schedule and Revorts
11.   The technical assistance will start early in 1992.  The consultant will
submit quarterly reports.



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
BARBADOS
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Network Rationalization Study
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    Barbados has a total area of only 430 square kilometers but enjoys a
relatively extensive paved road network of 1,550 km (381 km primary; 215 km
secondary; and 954 km of local and development roads).   The paved road density,
at 3.6 per square kilometers, is high in comparison with other islands of a
similar nature.   The relatively flat terrain (except for the north-eastern part
of the island) and the relatively high GNP per capita, contribute to the
increased size of the road network.    Nevertheless, maintenance of some low-
traffic tertiary roads could probably be minimized without affecting the
efficiency of the system.
2.    The existing maintenance plan for the road network is based on quantity
standards per km of roads.   The plan takes into account the overlay works
included in MCW's investment plan which are based on economic returns which, in
turn, are determined by traffic levels.  However, the traffic level does not
directly affect the quantity standards per km, as specified in the plan, thus the
recommended level of routine maintenance is insensitive to traffic levels.
Obiective
3.    To define a set of maintenance policies and a system by which each route
is assigned a policy based on its physical condition and traffic level.
Methodology
4.    The consultants will elaborate a matrix which will show the maintenance
policy which is economically feasible based on two variables: traffic
level(measured as number of standard axles)  and   road condition (measured
according to an acceptable roughness index). This will be done as follows:
(a)   a set of maintenance alternatives will be defined by the consultant
including (i) no maintenance; (ii) minimum routine meintenance
(cutting grass, cleaning culverts, maintaining drains, etc.); (iii)
minimum routine maintenance plus,    patching (e.g. patching each
year 50% of all pothole, 75%; and 100%); (iv) routine maintenance
plus patching at 100% plus resealir.g (according to a benchmark to be
established by the cor.sultants); and (iv) the preceding option plus
periodic overlay;



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
(b)   using the Highway Design and Maintenance   Model,  or any other
acceptable model, the consultants will recommend a maintenance
strategy matrix for a model road section based on the traffic level
and roughness condition.   The consultants should develop several
model matrixes based on criteria determined by different minimum
economic rates of return (i.e. discount rates);
(c)   the total road network in Barbados should be  divided into sections
according to the features listed in the existing road inventory with
each section identified by traffic ar.d roughness data;
(d)   using the above data, the consultants will assign each route a
maintenance strategy and calculate annual maintenance cost for the
total network for each model matrix (i.e. for each cutoff discount
rate);
(e)   the consultants will then select the final matrix of maintenance
strategies (and the implicit economic discount rate) by subjecting
total maintenance cost to the existing budgetary constraints; and
(f)   finally, the consultants will prepare a list of all road sections
the and the recommended maintenance strategy highlighting on those
where no maintenance is justified and those where only minimum
maintenance is recommended.
Schedule
5.    The study should be carried out in about eight months as follows:
(a) review of roughness and
traffic data:                     2 months
(b) collection of HDM data:            2 months
(c) model simulation and matrix
preparation for draft report:    2 months
(d) comments by MCW                    s month
(e) final report with recommended
strategy by route:                 1 month
8 months
Staff
6.    It is estimated that about 3 months of  a civil engineer's time and 10
months of transport economists'  time will be required.   Of the transport
economists' input, about seven months will be provided by the chief
economist/study director and three by an assistant economist/statistician.



- 98 -
ANNEX S
Page 3 of 3
Facilities
7.    The Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Transportation will
provide the consultants with offize space, office equipment (including personal
computers) and transportation. All other costs will be financed by the Second
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project.
Reports
8.    A draft report will be prepared after four months and copies sent for
comments to the Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Transportation (ten
copies), Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (five copies), CDB (two copies)
and IBRD (two copies). The final report,including the comments received by the
Government, will be completed with 30 days of receipt of comments and sent, with
the same number of copies, to the above-mentioned organizations.
Other
9.    The Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Transportation will assign
a staff to work as counterpart with the consultants.   In addition,  the
consultants will give during their stay a two-week course explaining and training
the maintenance management unit staff in use and application of the HDM model.



IBRD 23663
S -'                                         5935                                        59  301
BARBADOS                                           132
xonineliTown                                       SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE
,   \\  X                                           AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
/    {r  ,Sprlng Hall h       Hall
Harrison,-O        /T  LaC- i                 2I
/, \  #Hcif Acre       >xs  )                           -         PROJECT OVERLAY PROGRAM
- -< ,1                     _                       PROJECT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
O      PROJECT SAFETY PROGRAM
Fryer's W  I                                                               .........--   CDB*FINANCED ROADS
Colleton                             MC   Lewi                         PRIMARY ROADS
&eg  m uaN         5 a                        - --- -- SECONDARY ROADS
A      ROAD MAINTENANCE DEPOTS
-131'      Speightatown            _    ona   Hill                                              PARISH BOUNDARIES                                   13 13
l   <t  5   gST. AND  pW       -      - ~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
7       . 4Rock Dundo\             ,.ol I                                           <
Holeton   JAtMES                                              '  >re ($o 5v rn         -
m   Stmorel   OMf   j    t    fA    <    r  j-ndc                      Wln.J\nd
P>rospec  t   c     e    l    o At 0TkO G                                  >        K        -1beas
Deocon. oM                   E*tp~                             '~                            .vxrssRas ' 
-13 >-_                                                                                                                                               RLH Lwn . ,s  13.05'
Hol~ e                       St aurwosAi,o
59*40'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                                                                   31'
CUt _       _DOMI2NICA0N     tal  Llon0_                                                __/
JAMAICA                     co   l a  A                          ,A                 h           IIUA  0         2 r
ProspectO&                                      EOG
VrOMI~IcA                                              0         2                  6  KILOMETERS
b   S.~                        LU  ie            CI A
ST. VlNC IRTR % 
BASBAr,OS                                       Thi mop has been p,epored by The World B0nkP slafexdsluelw fo,
n's a                                              StpnA *GReNb cas nlne ,,f, od and b for ID lnbenal use of Th World
,,vX--X_  _,,23,-~~"TEI'ADAD                                              BOpank Grasmp. Ie  eaolnlin tused an,d lA. bak dorie scha ann  Ihi;
____ _ J_ VE_N_E__ZUEL_A        __Rich                                                   530                                          9*25
APRIL 1992



