Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3493 BAR
(Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project)
between
BARBADOS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 17, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3493 BAR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1992, between BARBADOS (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
Page  2
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-paragraph (l) and 
a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Action Plan" means the action plan to be prepared by the Borrower and 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)
"CARICOM" means the Caribbean Common Market created by the General Treaty 
for the Caribbean Community signed at Chaguaramas, Trinidad and Tobago, on July 4, 
1970 by Antigua, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, 
Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Trinidad and Tobago;
(c)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Barbados;
 
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing on April 1 and 
ending on the following March 31;
(e)
"Investment Program" means the Ministry's road sector investment program 
for the Fiscal Years 1992/1993 through 1996/1997 furnished to the Bank through the 
Borrower's letters to the Bank, dated May 7, 1992 and May 18, 1992, as such program 
may be amended from time to time in agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(f)
"Legislation" means the Road Traffic Act (as hereinafter defined) and any 
other legislation in effect on May 5, 1992, including implementing regulations 
thereto, all related to the road sector, as said legislation and regulations may be 
amended from time to time subject to the provisions of Section 5.01 of this Agreement;
(g)
"Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works, Communications 
and Transportation;
(h)
"Quarries Act" means the Borrower's Quarries Act, Cap. 353 of the Laws of 
Barbados, providing for the registration, licensing and supervision of quarries, for 
the safety of workers employed therein, for the fencing thereof and for related 
matters;
(i)
"Road Maintenance Plan" means the Ministry's Road Maintenance Plan for 
the Fiscal Years 1992/1993 through 1995/1996, furnished to the Bank through the 
Borrower's letter to the Bank dated May 7, 1992, as such plan may be amended from time 
to time in agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(j)
"Road Traffic Act" means the Borrower's Road Traffic Act, Cap. 295 of the 
Laws of Barbados;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"Transport Board" means the Borrower's Transport Board established by the 
Borrower's Transport Board Act, Cap. 297 of the Laws of Barbados;
(m)
"Transport Board Plan" means the Borrower's plan, furnished to the Bank 
through the Borrower's letter dated May 7, 1992 for reduction of the Transport Board's 
annual cash deficit to $2,000,000 equivalent or less, as such plan may be amended from 
time to time in agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(n)
"Transport Levy Act" means the Borrower's Transport Levy Act, Cap. 92 A 
of the Laws of Barbados, providing for the imposition and collection of a levy on 
incomes to be used for the improvement of transport and roads.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-one million two 
hundred thousand dollars ($21,200,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds 
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
Page  4
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through the Ministry, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate engineering, financial, administrative and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)
furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31 of every year 
during the execution of the Project, commencing in 1992, an update 
of the Investment Program;
(ii)
provide in its annual budget, and make available promptly as 
needed, in equivalent, as counterpart funds for the Project, the 
following minimum amounts:
(A)
$500,000 for Fiscal Year 1992/1993;
 
(B)
$3,200,000 for Fiscal Year 1993/1994;
 
(C)
$2,400,000 for Fiscal Year 1994/1995;
 
(D)
$3,400,000 for Fiscal Year 1995/1996; and
 
(E)
$2,400,000 for Fiscal Year 1996/1997; and
 
(iii)
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank on a quarterly basis, 
commencing on September 30, 1992, a report on the progress of the Project, of such 
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including, inter alia: (a) a 
section detailing progress in implementation of each Project component in the previous 
year; and (b) specific and justified proposals for adjustments in Project 
implementation based on the results of the previous year.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
during the first quarter of 1994, hold a review with the Bank, to 
evaluate, among other matters: (i) the progress in execution, and in the achievement 
of the objectives, of the Project; and (ii) the progress in execution of the Action 
Plan and the Road Maintenance Plan; and
(b)
without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under this 
Agreement, if, as a result of the above review, progress in the execution, or in the 
achievement of the objectives, of the Project, or progress in the execution of the 
Action Plan or Road Maintenance Plan, is not satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall promptly take or cause to be taken all such remedial action as the Bank shall 
request to achieve such objectives or to carry out efficiently the Project, the Action 
Plan, and the Road Maintenance Plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
carry out the Road Maintenance Plan with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate financial, technical, administrative, engineering and 
environmental standards and practices;
(b)
provide, or cause to be provided, in a timely manner, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the implementation of the Road 
Maintenance Plan;
(c)
submit to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1992 and each year 
thereafter, an update of the Road Maintenance Plan;
(d)
submit to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1993 and each year 
thereafter, evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, of the expenditures made in respect of 
the Road Maintenance Plan in the previous Fiscal Year and the amounts allocated for 
the execution of the Road Maintenance Plan in the then current Fiscal Year; and
(e)
without limitation to paragraph (b) above, provide in its annual budget 
for each Fiscal Year an amount of, at least, $3,000,000 equivalent for expenditures in 
respect of road maintenance materials.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain in the Ministry an organizational structure, with functions and 
adequate staff, all satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of implementing the Project 
and the Road Maintenance Plan and complying with the provisions in this Agreement;
(b)
promptly inform the Bank of any proposed changes in its organizational 
structure; and
(c)
without limitation to (a) above, maintain a Project coordinator with 
functions, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than July 31, 1993, submit to the Bank an action plan (Action 
Plan), satisfactory to the Bank, for the substantial privatization of the operations 
of the Transport Board, such action plan to be based on the results of the study 
referred to in Part B.2 (c) of the Project and the Bank's comments thereon; and 
(b)
implement, in a manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, 
the Action Plan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower undertakes to submit to its Parliament, through its 
Executive Branch:
(a)
not later than March 31, 1994, proposed legislation to amend the 
Transport Levy Act to either permit that the amounts payable as transport levy (as 
defined in the Transport Levy Act) be utilized for general public expenditures or 
directly abolish such transport levy; and
(b)
not later than June 30, 1993, proposed legislation to amend the Quarries 
Act to include adequate safeguards for environmental hazards such as soil erosion and 
contamination of underground water.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain in the Ministry, at all times, a level of staff assigned to road 
maintenance activities not in excess of eight hundred employees; and
(b)
carry out road overlay works in accordance with a program satisfactory to 
the Bank, such overlay works to cover at least twenty-five kilometers of roads during 
each Fiscal Year, commencing in Fiscal Year 1992/1993, and to be executed with the 
Ministry's own staff and resources.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall implement, in a manner and under a timetable 
satisfactory to the Bank, the Transport Board Plan.
Page  6
Section 3.11. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 3.01 and 3.04 
of this Agreement and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project and the Road Maintenance Plan in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
Ministry.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than five months after the end of each such Year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Legislation shall have been 
abrogated, repealed, suspended, waived, amended or altered in any other manner which, 
in the opinion of the Bank, would adversely and materially affect the implementation 
of the Project or the compliance with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Ministry has employed, under terms of reference 
Page  7
satisfactory to the Bank, an equipment manager and an accountant for its workshop, and 
an environmental officer for its technical department, all with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date of October 15, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director of Finance and Economic Affairs of the Borrower's 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
Government Headquarters
Bay Street, St. Michael
Barbados
Cable address:
Telex:
 
EXTERNALBAR
3862222
Barbados
With copies to:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Public Works,
   Communications and Transportation
Pine East-West Boulevard, St. Michael
Barbados
Cable address:
Telex:
 
EXTERNALBAR 3862222
Barbados
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BARBADOS
By /s/ Rudi Webster
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works under          3,100,000        55%
    Parts A.1, A.2,
    A.4 and A.5 of the
    Project
(2) Civil works under          9,900,000        80% until the
    Part A.3 of the                             aggregate amount
    Project                                     of disbursments in
                                                respect of this
                                                Category reaches
                                                $7,400,000; and
                                                50% thereafter
(3) Goods including            2,500,000        100% of foreign
    equipment, spare                            expenditures; and
    parts, and bus                              90% of local
    fare boxes                                  expenditures
(4) Services and goods           100,000        60%
    under the rehabili-
    tation equipment
    contract or contracts
    referred to in
    Part A.6 (b) of
    the Project
(5) Technical                  1,100,000        100%
    assistance
    including
    studies
(6) Training                     500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures; and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
(7) Unallocated                4,000,000
         TOTAL                21,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
Page  9
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$200,000 and $150,000, may be made in respect of Categories 3 and 5, respectively, on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1992; 
and
(b)
expenditures in respect of the overlay works for the roads listed in the 
second year (Fiscal Year 1994/1995) and subsequent years of the program under Part A.3 
of the Project unless the Borrower has received a notice from the Bank informing that 
the Bank is satisfied with the progress in the execution of the Action Plan.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Investment Program and its objectives are to assist 
the Borrower in: (a) preserving the capital base of its road infrastructure; (b) 
improving road maintenance planning and practices; (c) reducing investment costs 
related to its road network; (d) improving r Road safety; and (e) transferring the 
provision of passenger transport services to the private sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Investment Program
 
1.
Rehabilitation and improvement of two sections in Highway 6 consisting of: (a) 
approximately 6.1 kilometers from Searles to Six Roads; and (b) approximately 0.7 
kilometers from Collymore Rock to Villa Road.
2.
A program, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to improve the Borrower's 
safety system consisting in the improvement of five road intersections through 
construction of separate turning lanes and sidewalks, drainage  works, removal of 
existing obstacles affecting sight distance and installation of traffic lights.
3.
A program, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to raise standards and 
prevent deterioration of approximately 160 kilometers of selected roads.
4.
Rehabilitation of bridges and replacement of culverts, all selected in agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank, including construction of new structures, repaving 
of short stretches and flattening out of the respective roads vertical alignment.
5.
A two-year pilot program, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, for annual 
routine maintenance of approximately sixty-five kilometers of roads to be contracted 
out to the private sector.
6.
(a)
A program, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, for: (i) 
rehabilitation of existing road maintenance equipment, including acquisition of spare 
parts, by the Ministry's workshop; (ii) rehabilitation of existing maintenance 
equipment, including acquisition of spare parts, under one or more contracts with 
private contractors; and (iii) acquisition and utilization of approximately 112 units 
of road maintenance equipment and other equipment to improve the operational 
efficiency of maintenance activities such as weed control equipment, small dump trucks 
and asphalt sprayer distributors; and
(b)
acquisition and utilization of approximatley 150 fare boxes for the 
Transport Board's bus fleet.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
A technical assistance program designed to improve the Ministry's workshop 
operations, implement a road maintenance management system and to reduce operational 
costs of the Transport Board.
2.
Carrying out of the following studies: (a) a study to examine rationalization of 
the road network; (b) a study on the design and introduction of a comprehensive 
mechanized accounting system in the Ministry; and (c) a study to examine 
Page  10
rationalization measures and privatization alternatives for the passenger transport 
services provided by the Transport Board.
3.
A training program, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, consisting of: (a) 
on-site training of Ministry's staff in selected technical areas; (b) off-site 
training of Ministry's selected personnel including local and overseas courses, and 
international seminars and conferences; and (c) retraining activities for staff 
laid-off at the Ministry and the Transport Board.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning November 15, 1997
     through   November 15, 2006                
1,060,000
 
On May 15, 2007                                 
1,060,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
Page  11
     before maturity
More than three years but                        0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                          0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                  1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Regional Manufacturers
 
1.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of goods: 
(a) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price 
for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (b) 
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes 
on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (c) the cost to the Borrower of 
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place 
of their use or installation shall be included, if specified in the bidding
documents.
2.
For goods included in Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and manufactured in Barbados and in member countries of 
CARICOM, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject 
to, the following provisions:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate 
any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following groups:
(i)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Barbados if the 
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower 
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a 
value added in Barbados equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory 
bid price of such goods.
(ii)
Group B: all other bids offering goods from within Barbados.
 
(iii)
Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a country other than 
Barbados which is a party to CARICOM and entitled to preferential 
tariffs thereunder.
(iv)
Group D: bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among 
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be 
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to 
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each 
Page  12
group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, 
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group C and group D bids shall be further 
compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the evaluated 
price of the imported goods offered in each group C and group D bid, for the purpose 
of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a nonexempt importer would have to pay for 
the importation of the goods offered in such group C or group D bid; or (ii) 15% of 
the c.i.f. (cost, insurance, freight) bid price of such goods if said customs duties 
and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid or a group C bid is the lowest 
in such further comparison, it shall be selected for the award.
(e)
If, as a result of the further comparison under paragraph (d) above, a 
bid from group D is the lowest, all group D bids shall be finally compared with the 
lowest bid from group C, as determined under paragraph (c) above, after adding to the 
evaluated bid price of goods to be imported offered in each group D bid, for the 
purpose of this final comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the 
difference between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would 
actually be payable for the importation of goods offered in such group D bid and for 
the importation of goods offered in the group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. (cost, 
insurance, freight) bid price of goods to be imported offered in such group D bid. If 
the lowest bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected for 
purposes of award; if not, the lowest bid from group D, as determined under paragraph 
(c) above, shall be selected for purposes of award. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,300,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, the contract for bus fare 
boxes, not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, and the contract or contracts for 
equipment rehabilitation under Part A.6 (b) of the Project, not to exceed the 
equivalent of $150,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, each contract for goods procured under the procedures 
referred to in Part A of this Schedule and the contract or contracts for equipment 
rehabilitation under Part A.6 (b) of the Project, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  13
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
The Borrower shall:
1.
Furnish evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, by not later than June 30 in each 
year of Project execution, on the amount of expenditures incurred by the Borrower in 
respect of road maintenance in the previous Fiscal Year and the amount of resources 
allocated in its budget for the then current Fiscal Year.
2.
Incorporate, by not later than December 31, 1992, the Ministry's planning unit 
into the organizational structure of the Ministry's technical department.
3.
Furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31 of each year of Project 
execution: (a) a description of the roads to be overlaid by the Borrower, utilizing 
exclusively the Ministry's own staff and resources, in the upcoming Fiscal Year; and 
(b) an economic analysis, satisfactory to the Bank, providing the justification for 
the respective overlay works.
4.
(a)
Furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1994, an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for private sector participation in routine maintenance 
activities, such action plan to be based on the results of the pilot program referred 
to in Part A.5 of the Project; and (b) implement, in a manner and under a timetable 
satisfactory to the Bank, the action plan in (a) above.
5.
(a)
Employ, not later than December 31, 1992, the consultants for road 
maintenance and workshop improvement referred to in Part B.1 of the Project; and (b) 
have a road maintenance system, satisfactory to the Bank, based on the results of the 
above technical assistance and the Bank's comments thereon, operational not later than 
March 31, 1994.
6.
(a)
Employ, not later than December 31, 1992, consultants to assist in the 
carrying out of the study referred to under Part B.2 (a) of the Project; (b) furnish 
to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1993, an action plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, based on the results of the above study and the Bank's comments thereon; and (c) 
implement, in a manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, the action plan 
in (b) above.
7.
(a)
Employ, not later than June 30, 1993, consultants to assist in the 
carrying out of the study referred to under Part B.2 (b) of the Project; and (b) have 
operational, not later than December 31, 1994, a mechanized accounting system 
satisfactory to the Bank.
8.
Furnish to the Bank final engineering designs, satisfactory to the Bank, in 
respect of the overlay works to be carried out under Part A.3 of the Project for each 
Fiscal Year, commencing in Fiscal Year 1993/1994, not later than each October 31 of 
the preceeding Fiscal Year.
9.
In respect of the Road Maintenance Plan, achieve the productivity standards set 
forth below not later than December 31, 1993:
Activity               Unit              Amount         Crew        Equip-
                                                        Man/days    ment
                                                                    Unit/days
Pothole Patching       Tonne of Asphalt
                       Concrete Placed    5.0           9.0         1.0
Manual Drain Cleaning  Km Cleaned         0.1           8.0         1.0
Page  14
Guard Rail Repair      Meter Replaced    15.0          10.0         2.0
Manual Weeding         Km Roadside        1.0          12.0         1.0
Culvert Maintenance    Culvert Repaired   1.0           6.2         0.2
Concrete Slipper
  Repair               Meter Replaced    20.0           7.2         1.2
Resurfacing            
  Tonne of Asphalt                       
  Concrete Placed   300.0          19.0        10.0
Surface Treatment      Square Meter
                         Resealed       1000.0          13.0         4.0
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) 
and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
Page  15
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
