CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 463 CK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 20, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 463 CK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 20, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 20, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Socite Financiere de Developpement
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to Socigtd Financiere de Developpement the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Socite Financiere de Dveloppement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and cffect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(b)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.


﻿4
(c)   Paragraph (h) of Section 6.02 is deleted and paragraph (i) of such
Section becomes paragraph (h).
(d)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02(e) of the Project
Agreement no applications for approval or requests for authorization to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of any portion of the Credit
shall have been received by the Association, or having been so received, shall
have been denied or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be
cancelled."
(e)  The words "the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06; and
(f)  The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the ispective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "SOFIDE"   means the    Societe  Financiere de Ddveloppement,
established pursuant to authorization given under Ordonnance-loi No. 70/001 of
the Borrower dated January 9, 1970.
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and SOFIDE, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time.
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SOFIDE pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement.


﻿5
(d)   "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
SOFIDE to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the equivalent
of the proceeds of the Credit relent to SOFIDE under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which
qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b) of
this Agreement.
(e)   "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan, made or
proposed to be made by SOFIDE in an Investment Enterprise for an hnvestment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit relent to SOFIDE
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which SOFIDE
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment.
iJ)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment.
(h)   "Zaires" and "Z" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(i) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of the
Borrower.
()    "Statutes" means the statuts of SOFIDE approved on January 11,
1970, as amended on March 16, 1972 and on April 19, 1973 and as further
amended from time to time.
(k)   "Statement of Policy" means the Dclaration de Politique Gcdndrale
of SOFIDE as adopted and approved by its Board of Directors on February 10,
1970, and amended on March 14, 1973 and as the same may be further amended
from time to time.
(1)   "Prior Credit Agreements" mean the development credit agreements
(Nos. 190 CK and 271 CK) between the Association and the Borrower dated
May 28, 1970, and September 24, 1971, and "Prior Credits" mean the credits
provided for therein.
(m)   "Government Loans" means the advance and the loan totalling
3,000,000 Zaires authorized to be granted by the Borrower to SOFIDE pursuant
to Ordonnance-loi No. 70/002 of January 9, 1970.


﻿6
(n)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by SOFIDE or by any one or more subsidiaries of SOFIDE or by
SOFIDE and one or more of its subsidiaries.
(0) "Convention" means the Convention d'Etablissement between the
Borrower and SOFIDE dated January 15, 1970.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), for
use by SOFIDE.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d)
of this Section, SOFIDE, on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.08
of this Agreement, shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account:
(i)         amounts expended, (or, if the Association shall so agree, such
amounts as shall be required to meet expenditures to be made)
for the reasonable cost in foreign currency of imported goods
(except goods described in paragraph (c) of this Section) and
services required for carrying out the Investment Project in
respect of which the withdrawal is requested;
(ii)       the equivalent of seventy-seven per cent (77%) of the invoiced
price paid for goods purchased as set forth in paragraph (c)(i)
of this Section; and
(iii)      the equivalent of fifty-five per cent (55%) of the invoiced price
paid for goods purchased as set forth in paragraph (c)(ii) of this
Section.
provided, however, that no amount shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account
in respect of an Investment Project unless (A) the sub-loan or investment for such
Investment Project shall have been approved by the Association or (B) the sub-loan
shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account.


﻿7
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan in an amount to be financed
under the Development Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount
or amounts previously financed for the same project under the Development Credit
Agreement or under the Prior Credit Agreements, and not repaid, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of $150,000 and which, when added to all other
free-limit sub-loans financed under the Development Credit Agreement, shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $2,000,000, the foregoing amounts being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Association.
(c)   Except as the Association and SOFIDE shall otherwise agree,
withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made on account of expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower only for (i) goods previously imported into its
territory through normal trade channels and from countries which are members
of the Bank (or from Switzerland) and (ii) goods produced in the territory of
the Borrower to a substantial extent from components or raw materials so imported,
and purchased by Investment Enterprises to carry out Investment Projects.
(d) Except as the Association and SOFIDE shall otherwise agree and
subject to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, no withdrawals
shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment Enterprise to
be financed (i) under a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or with
an investment, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association
shall have received in respect of the Inves+ment Project the application and
information required under Section 2.02(b) of the Project Agreement or (ii) under
a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received the request and information required by Section
2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in  semi-annual installments payable on  each  June 15 and December 15
commencing June 15, 1984 and ending December 15, 2023, each installment to
__


﻿8
and including the installment payable on December 15, 1993 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.08. SOFIDE is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
A'TICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is granted is the financing
by SOFIDE of economic development in the territory of the Borrower through
loans for productive purposes to enterprises in such territory, and through other
productive investments in such enterprises, all for specific development projects
and in accordance with the Statutes and Statement of Policy of SOFIDE.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent
thereof to SOFIDE under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and SOFIDE under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of its political
subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or any agency or
instrumentality of any political subdivision, to take, any action which would prevent
or materially interfere with the performance by SOFIDE of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take
or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be required on its part in
order to enable SOFIDE to perform such obligations.


﻿9
Section 3.03. The terms and conditions of the Convention and of the
Government Loans shall be modified only pursuant to the agreement of the
Borrower, the Association and SOFIDE.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by SOFIDE of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the performance by the respective parties of their respective obligations
*       under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition, of SOFIDE and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit;
and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the
perfonrmance by the Borrower of its obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the performance by SOFIDE
of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
0


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection
with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be freC from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of SOFIDE
under the Project Agreement or under any other project agreement between the
Association and SOFIDE;
(b) the Statutes of SOFIDE shall have been amended so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of SOFIDE;


﻿11
(c)   SOFIDE shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or any action
or proceeding shall have been taken whereby any of the property of SOFIDE shall
or may be distributed among its creditors;
(d)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to SOFIDE having an
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity, as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SOFIDE or for the Suspension
of its operations; or
(f)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by SOFIDE, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely affect the conduct of SOFIDE's business, its financial situation, the
efficiency of its management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (f) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and
SOFIDE.
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
SOFIDE have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.


﻿12
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and SOFIDE, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, SOFIDE, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of SOFIDE in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SOFIDE,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
SOFIDE in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date April 15, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f) of Section 6.02
of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.03 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
the Commissaire d'Etat responsible for Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
D6partement des Finances
Bofte Postale No. 10
Kinshasa Gombe
Republic of Zaire


﻿13
Cable address:                        Telex:
DENFIN                                298
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                               440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                       24423 (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through     their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By /s / Mbeka Makosso
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


