Dolmu:t Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Co4 ,2CP-4s.
Report No. P-4423-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
O THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 8.7 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
FOR A
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
March 5, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Ctirrency Unit * Malawi Kwacha (MK)
(September 1986)
US$1.00        a  tDC2.00
MX11.00        *  US$0.50
(January 31, 1987)
SDR1.00        *  US$1.27
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDR              Crude Death Rate
CEM              Country Economic Memorandum
CG               Consultative Group
CIF              Carriage, Insurance and Freight
CHS              Chief of Health Services
CMS              Central Medical Stores
DMO              District Medical Officer
EEC              European Economic Community
EDF              European Development Fund
EP&D             Department of Economic Planning and Development
ESW              Economic and Sector Work
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IEC              Information, Education and Communication
INR              Infant Mortality Rate
INDEBANK         Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
KfW              Kreditanstaldt fur Wiederaufbau
MCH              Maternal and Child Health
MOCS             Ministry of Community Services
NOR              Ministry of Health
IWS              Ministry of Works and Supplies
NRDP             National Rural Development Project
ODA              Overseas Development Administration
PIlAM            Private Hospitals Association of Malawi
PHC              Primary Health Care
UNFPA            United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
VHC              Village Health Committee
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OfmICIAL USE ONLY
MILAWI
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Credit and Projlct Sumary
Borrower:      Republic of Malawi
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Health, Department of
Economic Planning and Development
Credit AmQunt: SDR 8.7 million (US$ 11.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IDA Terms
Project        The project objectives are to: (a) improve the health status
Description:   of families, particularly of mothers and children, through
expansion and strengthening of primary health care programs;
(b) increase the availability and accessibility of child
spacing services within the maternal and child health
program; (c) further strengthen the Ministry of Health's
(MOH) capacity to plan, manage and evaluate health services
in the framework of a decentralized health system; and (d)
design and implement a sultisectoral family health program
through other government agencies. The project is comprised
of two parts. The first part consists of activities to be
undertaken by the NOH and includes (a) the building of
health centers, replaceaent of a district hospital and the
training of and provision of equipment and supplies to
village health care workers to extend coverage of the
primary health care system; (b) technical assistance,
training, and provision of computer equipment to reorganize
the MOH and to strengthen drug production and supply, health
service management and manpower development; and (c) the
ploduction of Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
materials, health worker training, and the provision of
vehicles, drugs, and facilities to strengthen matetnal and
child health, child spacing and nutrition programs. The
second part of the project consists of activities to be
coordinated by the Economic Planning and Development
Department (EP&D) and includes (a) training of women's
welfare workers and youth program instructors and the
production of educational materials on family health to be
introduced into functional literacy and youth programs; and
(b) the production of IEC materials on family health and
child spacing concepts to be introduced into the mass media.
Benefits       The project would directly benefit about two million people
and Risks:     throughout the country through strengthening and expanding
primary health care and family health programs and through
increased accessibility of child spacing services.   In the
medium term, health status is expected to be improved by a
significant reduction in the incidence of infant and
This docLument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficial dutiet Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
maternal mortality and morbidity. Population increase would
be slowed through a siglnificant increase in women using
modern contraceptives. The main project risk relates to the
weak implementation capacity. The project minimizes this
risk by (a) strengthening with additional staffing and
technical assistance the units involved In carrying out the
civil works component; (b) Improving coordination of
multisectoral family health activities through the EP&D
which is being strengthened with technical assistance; (c)
implementing multisectoral fatily health activities through
mlnistries with demonstrated adequate Implementation
capacity; and (d) supporting a comprehensive management
review of the MOH's reorganization.
Estimated Cost:                               Local  Foreign      Total
-(US$ Million)- -
Primary Health Care                            4.4      3.2         7.6
Management, Manpower and Support Systems    1.8         1.5         3.3
Family Health                                  3.0      2.8         5.8
Project Management                            0.2       1.3         1.5
Multisectoral Health Program                   2.7      1.6         4.3
Total Baseline Costs               12.1     10.4        22.5
Physical Contingencies              0.7      0.8         1.5
Price Contingencies                 0.5      0.4         0.9
Total Project Costs a/             13.3     ;1.6        24.9
a/   Includes US$0.4 million for taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                                     Local    Foreign  Total
----(US$ million)   --
IDA                                4.7       6.3      11.0
UNICEF                             1.2        1.4      2.6
European Development Fund          2.4       1.1       3.5
'fW                                2.2        1.9      4.1
Government of the Netherlands       .3         .6       .9
UNFPA                               .9        -         .9
Government of Malawi (including
taxes)                      1.6        0.3      1.9
TOTAL                             13.3      11.6      24.9
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
IDA FY        1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
----- --US$ Millions--                   -
Annual         0.6    2.4    3.0    2.7    1.7    0.6
Cumulative    0.6    3.D    6.0    8.7   10.4   11.0
Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 6471-MAI, dated February 24, 1987.
Mpj IBRD 20099



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR 8.7 million (US$11.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Family Health
Project.
PART I - THE ECONIOMY 1/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5801-MAI) dated October
4, 1985, was circulated to the Executive Directors on October 15, 1985.
Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        Malawi Is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about 7
million people in 1985), landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderatc.y fertile soils, good water resources and a
climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        With a GNP per capita of US$170, Malawi has been identified by
the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries. Nevertheless,
from independence in 1964 until 1979, Halawi had steady economic growth,
averaging 6 percent per annum in real terms (3 percent per capita). The
leading sectors were agriculture and manufacturing. Investment rose from
9 percent of GDP at Independence to 33 percent in 1979, financed by
increased domestic savings (from nil to 14 percent of GDP in 1979), and
rising official and private capital inflows. In 1980 and 1981 Malawi met
with serious difficulties due to world economic conditions, structural
imbalances in the economy and deficient Government policies, and GDP
contracted by 6 percent over those two years. Consumption fell somewhat,
but savings and investment were reduced drastically. Recovery began in
1982, with growth averaging 3.2 percent through 1985, but preliminary
indications show no economic growth in 1986.
5.        Malawi's economic growth has been due in large part to the
pragmatic policies of the Government. Malawi has adopted an outward
looking strategy based on agriculture, consistent with the country's
resource endowment. Government investment has concentrated on provision of
infrastructure, utilities and support services to encourage private
initiative. The Government has also emphnsized agriculture, a sound policy
given that 90 percent of the population lives in rural areas and depends on
agriculture for its livelihood. Traditionally, more than half of the
development budget has been directed towards agriculture and transport.
I/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as those of
the President's Report on the Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project
(Report No. P-4374-MAI dated October 30, 1986).



-2-
6.        Malawi's economy is heavily dependent on three primary commodity
exports (tobacco, tea, and sugar) and is highly vulnerable to international
price fluctuations. In 1980-85 these three commodities averaged 70 percent
of total exports and 16 percent of GDP. Since 1974, there have been
periodic balance of payments problems of increasing severity due primarily
to (a) rapid escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and
intermediate and capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of
tobacco, sugar and tea; (c) signifLcantly higher costs of transport for
exports and imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion
in Mozambique, and, more recently, severe disruptions of overland transport
routes through Mozambique resulting in couplete severance of direct rail
links to Mozambique ports in 1984; and (d) an increasing debt service
burden.
Economic Developments 1978-86
7.        Beginning in 1978, Malawi's chronic balance of payments problems
became less manageable. The current account deficit rose from a level of
8-9 percent of GDP in the uid-1970s to 18 percent in 1978 and 23 percent in
1979. Import prices rose by 39 percent over this period, primarily due to
petroleum price hikes. Conversely, export prices declined by 16 percent
Cdue mainly to falling tea and tobacco prices). In 1980 and 1981, a
drought led to reduced agricultural exports and necessitated increased
imports of subsistence crops (maize). Nevertheless, by 1981 Malawi enjoyed
a surplus on the merchandise trade balance (f.o.b.) thanks mainly to a
contraction in imports and has increased this surplus steadily since 1981.
Continuing current account deficits were due to a large deficit on the
service accounts. Transport costs for imports and exports were greatly
increased due to continuing problems with traditional export routes through
Mozambique. Debt servicing also contributed to the deficit on the
invisibles account. These current account deficits were initially financed
by sharply increased private capital inflows. These were still not
sufficient to finance the current account deficit and the country drew down
its foreign reserves to less than one month of imports by end 1983. In
1984, the current account deficit was greatly reduced to three percent of
GDP and reserves were increased by US$65 million. This was due to'
improvements in the terms of trade, led by record tea prices, and a sharp
increase in exports, as previous stocks of tobacco and sugar were moved out
of the country, resulting in a large trade surplus, nearly matching the
deficit on the services account. By contrast, in 1985 terms of trade
experienced a drastic downturn, mainly owing to a sharp drop of tobacco
prices, which in conjunction with expansionary fiscal and monetary policies
provoked a current account deficit of 9 percent of GDP. Again, reserves
fell to insufficient levels. Preliminary data seem to indicate for 1986 a
slight reduction in the current account deficit to about 8 percent of GDP,
although this was achieved by sharply limiting imports. At the same time,
the overall BOP deficit was more than US$80 million. A major item in this
deficit is short term outflows and errors and omissions equal to more than
US$90 million. If some of this outflow turns out to be security related
imports, then the current account deficit will be higher. In any case, the
country has not been able to finance all of this deficit and import payment
arrears were about US$60 million at the end of 1986.
8.       The economic difficulties of 1980-81, as well as problems with
public corporations, led to an increase in the Government budget deficit
reaching 16.5 percent of GDP in 1981, double historic levels. This was due



-3-
primarily to a rapid increase in government expenditures, attaining 35
percent of GDP in that same year. Much of this was made up of recurrent
expenditures, especially interest payments. Revenues did not increase
commensurately, given the recession, hence the large fiscal deficit. These
deficits were financed by government borrowing, primarily domestic. Public
sector credit represented 60 percent of total domestic credit in 1984 and
as a percentage of GDP it increased to 13 percent in 1984 as compared to 9
percent in 1974. The fiscal position had improved with increased revenues
and restrained spending, so that the deficit was reduced to 8.9 percent of
GDP by FY84/85 and 10.9 percent by FY85/86, though still above target
levels. Indications are that the deficit may increase to at least 12.5
percent of CDP in FY87, as the severe import cuts reduced Government
revenues, and expenditures are likely to exceed the budget by significant
amounts. Improving expenditure control is a key element to continuing
Malawi's economic recovery. Inflation has been within a range of 10-15
percent since 1981.
9.        Given Malawi's early stage of development, foreign capital
inflows, especially of a public nature, have been important in development
financing. In the pre-recessionary period (1969-79), foreign
savings financed approximately half of domestic investment. During the
recession (1980-81), public and private capital inflows were used to
maintain consumption levels, and domestic savings fell. Since 1981,
domestic savings have been increasing, while private inflows have virtually
ceased. Public transfers continue, financing approximately 50 percent of
all investment. While multilateral assistance, led by World Bank Group
loans and credits, has increased, grants and bilateral transfers have
declined from past levels, and have not kept pace with Malawi's needs.
Stabilization and Adjustment Programs
10.       Initially, the country attempted to offset the economic downturn
of 1979-1980 by increased external borrowing, mostly on commercial terms,
in order to maintain import levels and thus production, employment and
consumption. It soon became evident that with increasing inflationary
pressures and fiscal and balance of payments disequilibria, more stringent
adjustment efforts were needed. The Government, therefore, launched a
stabilization effort designed to reduce short-term fiscal and balance of
payments disequilibria and a structural adjustment program designed to
improve efficiency of resource use and ensure that positive growth of per
capita income can be reestablished and sustained over the medium and
longer-term within the context of .a manageable balance of payments current
account deficit. The structural adjustment program is broad-based; aimed
at encouraging diversification of production and exports, improving
performance of productive sectors, rehabilitating, restructuring and
otherwise strengthening key development institutions, and improving
resource mobilization and allocation in the public sector.
11.       The Government and the IPF agreed to a standby program for SDR 22
million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aimed at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involved phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on government external commercial borrowing. The standby was



4
implemented satisfactorily, and the Government and the IMF concluded a new
multi-year program. A three year Extended Fund Facility was approved in
September 1983 and, was successfully iuplemented until April 1985. In
early 1986 due to a combination of unfavorable terms of trade and
inadequate domestic policy response, the programmed targets for public
sector deficit and domestic credit expansion were not achieved. As a
result, the Extended Facility became inoperative. Under the Extended
Facility program an active foreign exchange policy was pursued. Thus, in
September 1983 the Government devalued the Kwacha against the SDR by 12
percent and in January 1984 the Kwacha was pegged to a basket of seven
currencies. In April 1985, the Kwacha was devalued by 15 percent in terms
of the reference basket to reverse a real appreciation which had taken
place since late 1983, was devalued again by an additional 10 percent in
August 1986, and 20 percent in February 1987. The Government of Malawi and
the IMF are currently discussing a possible new Standby Arrangement and an
SAF loan.
12.       The Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan in support of the
Government's program was made in June 1981, for US$45 million. After
initial difficulties, good progress was made in implementing the
Government's adjustment program. Additional funds were allocated to the
agricultural sector, certain agricultural prices were adjusted, public
utility tariffs were increased and the budget for 1982-83 was trimmed, with
sufficient resources provided for major development sectors. The second
tranche was released in April 1982. However, during 1982 the country's
efforts were set back by increased disruption of the traditional transport
routes and continued depressed demand for Malawi's export products.
Nevertheless, the country was able to hold its current account deficit to
11.J percent of GDP in 1983, reduce the budgetary deficit for FY1982183 to
9 percent of GDP, and meet its IMF standby borrowing ceilings.
13.       The second phase of the structural adjustment program was
supported by a Second Structural Adjustment Credit approved by the Board in
December 1983. The second phase builds upon the reforms of SAL 1,
focussing on measures to improve the mobilization and management of
resources, to strengthen key institutions, and to upgrade the performance
of the public sector. The program has been successful in achieving most of
its objectives. Among the achievements of the program have been (a)
increased smallholder export production following an increase in price
incentives; (b) increased industrial production and investment incentives
resulting from a program of price decontrols; (c) increased domestic energy
production; (d) a strengthening of the financial position of key public and
private enterprises; and (e) a reduction in the budgetary and balance of
payments deficits. Efforts to improve the control and allocation of public
expenditures and to reduce the overall size of Government have been slow,
but steps in the right direction have been taken. While the economy has
grown at a moderate rate in 1983-85, prospects are for continued economic
difficulties and the need for continued adjustment to balance of payments,
fiscal and transport constraints.
14.       An IDA Credit for US$30 million equivalent and a US$40 million
equivalent African Facility Credit for the Third Structural Adjustment
Operation were approved by the Board on December 19, 1985. The third phase
of the program is designed to encourage productivity and efficiency,
diversify the export base and promote exports, strengthen the Government's
policy making capability, and improve the performance of development



-5-
institutions.  The Government has taken action, inter aLia, to reduce
subsidies, complete the prlce deregulation proceca, strengthen its policy
and planning unlts, reduce parastatal deficits, and rationalize the role of
the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation, including a compre-
hensive reform of the agricultural marketing system. The second tranche
was released in October 1986, about three months behind schedule mainly
because of delays in preparing the Government's three year public sector
investment program and setting up an export promotion program. In January
1987, the Board approved a supplemental financing credit to SAL III to
further support reform efforts in agricultural marketing and pricing.
External Debt Restructuring
15.       By the end of 1985, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled almost US$800 million. In late 1982, Nalawi rescheduled
both its official and commercial debts. Otherwise its debt servicing,
including repayments to the IMF, would have amounted to over US$130
million, equivalent to about 48 percent of exports of goods and services.
This compares to a level of about 10 percent in the mid-1970s. A second
year of rescheduling was agreed to in October of 1983, keeping the debt
service ratio to 28 percent in 1983. The Government has not asked for any
further rescheduling. The debt service ratio was above 40 percent in 1986
but is expected to fall to about 26 percent by 1989. Because of this high
debt service ratio, commercial bank borrowing will have to remain sharply
curtailed and the balance of payments gap should be closed by concessionary
financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
16.       Over the past 21 years, Malawi has received 36 IDA credits and
one Special Fund credit, totalling about US$512 million, and 10 Bank loans
totalling US$124 million, of which 2 were on third window terms. Malawi
has also received one African Facility Credit totalling US$40.0 million
equivalent. The first Bank loan to Halawi was made on third window terms
in June 1976 and the first standard Bank loan in April 1977. Of Bank Group
assistance, some US$182 million (27 percent) was for agriculture, US$108
million (16 percent) for education, US$114 million (17 percent) for roads,
US$168 million (25 percent) for structural adjustment, US$39 million (6
percent) for power, US$31 million (5 percent) for water, and the balance of
US$35 million (5 percent) for health, development finance, technical
assistance, and urban housing. In FY86, a credit of US$11.6 million
equivalent for an Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project, a
US$30.0 million equivalent IDA Credit and a US$40.0 million African
Facility Credit for the Third Structural Adjustment Operation, a US$7.6
million loan for an Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project, and a loan
of US$16.7 million equivalent for a Second Wood Energy Project were
approved. For FY87 a US$20.0 million equivalent credit for the Second
Lilongwe Water Supply Project has been approved, as well as a US$10.0
million supplemental credit from the African Facility. Additional lending
operations are planned in transport, education and agriculture. IFC's
equity participations and lending commitments in Malawi total about US$27.9
million and include investments in textiles, sugar, a Development Finance
Corporation (INDEBANK), tourism, the manufacture of alcohol from molasses
and a leasing and finance company. In addition, a US$0.5 million equity
subscription and US93.2 million loan investment in the Viphya Plywoods and
Allied Industries United were approved in August 1984 and August 1986.



6
Annex II contains a Summary Statement of Bank Group Operations am of
September 30, 1986.
Bank Lending Strategy
17.       Support for the Government's structural adjustment program wlll
continue to remain a focal point of the Bank's lending program. Greater
emphasis will be placed, however, on new initiatives designed to achieve
more effective productivity gains, and to bring about more vigorous
production and export diversification results. Equally important will be
efforts to help the Government strengthen its institutions in charge of
economic management with a view to solidifying the policy changes that have
been made and expanding the capaclty for taking future policy initiatives.
Another area of emphasis will be human resource development. Malawl's life
expectancy, Infant survival, primary school enrollment and completion, end
secondary school enrollment rates are among the lowest in the world, while
the population growth rate is among the highest. Finally, Malawi needs
support in its efforts to further improve the efficiency of resource use,
identify potential sources of future growth and promote resource
conservation. Increased aid coordination and mobilization will be needed
for Malawi to reach its growth potential.
18.       Our economic and sector work will focus on helping the Government
formulate its medium and longer term development strategy. The next CEM
(FY87) will focus on this topic. Other ESW will complement the program
related to institutional and human resource development and
diversification. Identifying areas of development management that need
strengthening will contribute to helping the Government to institutionalize
the reforms that it has been making. To help develop a strategy for
diversification and privatization will require in depth looks at the
National Rural Development Program (NRDP) and the agricultural sector as a
whole as well as defining an industrial development strategy. As progress
has been made in the SALs to improve the industrlal policy environment, the
focus of the industrial sector work will be on institutions and policies
which affect investment Incentives and opportunities. The recommendations
of a report on the parastatal sector will provide a basis for the
Government's restructuring of parastatals. Sector work on local
governments will focus on increasing cost recovery for urban services and
on strengthening the role of local authorities in providing for urban
services.
19.       A Consultative Group meeting was held in January 1986 with the
objective of improving donor coordination and increasing the level of
resources needed to support Malawi's adjustment process. Local aid
coordination efforts have been increasing and a second CC is expected ln
1987.
External Debt
20.       The Bank Group's share of Malawi's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of 1985 was about 52 percent (IBRD: 10 percent,
IDA: 42 percent), and its share in debt service was about 12 percent.
Because Malawi is one of the least developed countries, many other donors
give aid on grant terms.  Other major donors have been the United Kingdom,
the Federal Republic of Germany, the European Economic Community, and the
AMrican Development Bank.



-7-
Disbursements
21.       The levels of disbursements for Malawi, Including program
lending, were as Eollows: in FY 1982, US$70.1 million; in FY 1983, US$33.2
million; in FY 1984, US$58.2 million; in FY 1985, US$46.4 million; and in
FY 1986, US$68.3 taillion. Disbursements of the Bank Group loans and
credits in Malawi have generrlly been good and compare favorably with other
countries in the region and even on a Bank-wide basis. The disbursement
rate on loans and credits to Malawi (excluding the effect of non-project
lending) hac averaged about 26 percent per annum, significantly higher than
the Eastern Africa Regional average of 19 percent and the Bank-wide average
of about 21 percent.
Project Implementation
22.       In general, projects in Malawi havt been implemented efficiently
and effectively. The Audit and Project Completion Reports underscore the
fact that project objectives are usually met and the benefits of
investments have been extended nationwide. During the period 1983-85,
there were problems due to inadequate budgetary provisions, but since then
these problems have been satisfactorily resolved. Malawi continues to rely
heavily on expatriate technical assistance for project management and
project accounting. Efforts are being made to increase the number of
trained Malawians in key positions and to strengthen the Government's
overall management capacity.
PART III - THE POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTORS
A. Population
Demographic Backeround and Socio-economic Implications
23.       Malawi's population ln 1985 was estimated to be 7.15 million and
the population growth rate is currently 3.2 percent per annum. Malawi is
one of the most densely populated countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, with a
population density which has risen to about 74 per km2 from 59 Inhabitants
per km2 at the time of the 1977 census. The total fertility rate is
estimated at between 7.5 and 8.0. If fertility remains constant,
population will grow from its current level to about 21 million by 2015, a
200 percent increase in 30 years. If an accelerated decline in fertility
is achieved, the population is estimated to grow to 10.6 million in 2000
and 13.3 million in 2015 -- an 86 percent increase. Nonetheless, an
accelerated fertility decline could reduce the population growth rate in 30
years by over a third.
24.       A continuation of the present rate of population growth would
have significant socio-economic consequences. During the 1970s, economic
growth averaged 6.8 percent annually while the population growth rate
during the same period was 2.8 to 2.9 percent. This resulted in a
continued increase in per capita income.  Between 1979 and 1983, annual
growth in GDP has failed to match population growth, with a consequent
slight decline in per capita incomes. Malawi's economy is largely
dependent on the agricultural sector. Agriculture is under increasing
pressure to feed and to provide employment for the growing population. By
2015, if fertility, current nutrition, and land productivity levels remain
constant, there would be a land deficit of 13 percent. Nutritional intake



in aome areas io already declining duo to population prescure on limited
land and agricultural production. The implications of unchecked population
growth would also be ataggering for primary education expenditure.. To
achieve currant enrollment targets for primary education, annual costs
would rise by 553 percent in constant kwachas by 2015. Wlth accelerated
fertility decline, annual coat. would rise by 171 percent In the came 30
year period. Thus, at current enrollment rates, rapid fortility decline
could result in annual mavings of MK93 million by 2015.  Smlilarly, If
rapid fertillty decline occurs, annual secondary education expenditure
could be cut by up to 43 percent within 30 yearm.
Population Policy
25.       Only recently has the Government recognized population growth am
a problem and, In 1982, endorsed the Introduction of child spacing into the
health delivery system's Maternal and Child Realth (MCi) Program. The
Government maintains that the introduction of child spacing does not
interfere with the right of families to have as many children as desired
and that the goal of the program is "to reduce maternal morbidity and
mortality by allowing the mother to rest between pregnancies and to reduce
Enfant and child morbidity and mortality." Initial child spacing
activities were introduced under IDA's first Health Project (Credit
1351-MAI). Although no systematic surveys have been undertaken, it Is
evident that demand for contraceptives ls growing rapidly and that people
are willing to travel long distances to obtain them.
26.       During the last two years, there has been increasing awareness
among citizens and government officials of the socio-economic Implications
of rapid population growth. In October 1984, at the Governmente's request,
IDA undertook a Population Sector Review. The review recommended that the
Government establish a capacity for population policy formulation and
planning and that the MCH program and its child spacing component be
expanded and strengtbened. These recommendations were accepted by the
Government. Also, the Ministry of Health has provided in its new Ten 'Year
Health Plan (0986-1995) for a nationwide expansion of the chlld spacing
program and a broadening of the concept to address issues related to
women's development and literacy, and to provide information through
existing health and education programs.
B. Health
Health and Nutrition Status
27.       Life expectancy at birth is only 41 years and mortality ts
particularly high among Infants and children. The Crude Death Rate (CDR)
is estimated to be 23 per thousand and the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) 151
per thousand live births. Malaria, respiratory infections, diarrheal
diseases and eye and skin diseases, all of which are relatively easily
preventable, account for nearly 80 percent of morbidity in young children.
Data shows that 57 percent of all deaths in Malawi occur in children under
five years of age and that malnutrition directly or indirectly accounts for
at least one-third of all deaths in the country.
28.       Malawian infants have a verv high level of stunting which becomes
increasingly prevalent in children b-:tween 6 and 24 months of age,
coinciding with the nutritionall- _fftlcal period of weaning.  This problem



- 9 -
peaks in 3 year olds, 65 percent of whom show evidence of stuntlng. Fifty
percent of preschool children are chronically malnourished. Except for
Ethiopia, this is the highest rate in Eastern and Southern Africa and
compares with 37 percent in Kenya and 28 percent in Zimbabwe. Inadequate
food availability between harvests is a documented problem with 30 percent
of women reporting that they run out of food in September (6 months after
the April harvest) and 60 percent reporting that they run out of food In
December.
29.       Despite a national surplus of maize production and of maize In
storage, distribution problems combined with issues of low incomes and
affordability leave large parts of the population malnourished and lacking
in a balanced diet. Having become increasingly cognizant of nutrition as
an issue, in July 1986, the Government held a seminar attended by high
level government officials. A decision has been taken, in the context of a
reform of the agricultural marketing system, to establish a Food and
Nutrition unit in the Economic Planning and Development Department (EP&D)
of the Office of the President and Cabinet. This unit would coordinate and
maintain an overview of activities related to food security and nutrition
In Malawi, estimate the nutrition effects of selected policies and
programs, develop early warning and nutritional surveillance systems and
determine the most cost-effective ways to reach nutrition goals.
30.       Disease patterns are exacerbated by low standards of living
characterized by poor hygiene. Only 30 percent of those living in rural
areas have atoss to safe water. Health status is clearly lowest in rural
areas where a shortage of health services, combined with lack of knowledge
about hygiene, crowded housing, and absence of sewerage, create conditions
conducive to the spread of infectious and parasitic diseases.
Bealth Sector Organization and Management
31.       Objectives of Health Care Delivery.  Malawi's First Healtb Plan
following independence (1965-1969) emphasized health manpower development
and training, particularly of nurses, midwives and health inspectors. The
more comprehensive Second Plan (1973-1988), which was prepared with World
Health Organization assistance, emphasized expansion and strengthening of
the basic health services network, the prevention and control of
communicable diseases, as well as the training of health manpower.
Achievements fell short of expectations. Implementation of the second plan
was hampered by: lack of adequate financial resources, scarcity of trained
manpower, Inadequately defined and coordinated policies and strategies, a
bias toward hospital based curative services, and lack of criteria for
guiding health sector investments.
32.       Under the first IDA-assisted health project, the MOR began
preparation of a new 10-year National Health Plan. The National Health
Plan (1986-1995) sets the following medium term goals: "to achieve a drop
in early childhood mortality of 33.3 percent over a five year period; to
achieve an improvement in maternal health; and to impact on the extent and
severity of illness due to major causes of morbidity in those 5 years of
age and over through the Primary Health Care approach and/or core health
services." To achieve these goals, the following specific objectives have
been formulated: (a) to improve access to a rational network of health
facilities by extending especially community based services and by modestly
strengthening hospital facilities and staffing; (b) to establish mechanisms



- 10 -
for MOH manpower development and monitoring of deployment; (c) to improve
management of the expanded health delivery system; (d) to improve child
survival of the under-five group; (e) to improve health status generally by
strengthening relevant programs; and Cf) to improve the nutritional status
of mothers and children. Recognizing budgetary constraints, emphasis would
be placed on reallocation of resources in accordance with newly adopted
priorities, improved cost recovery and the cost-effective delivery of
services, and avoidance of any real growth In the MOH's recurrent budget.
33.       Organization and Financing of Health Services.  The Ministry of
Health (MOH) has primary responsibility for the development of policies,
strategies and programs for health care in Malawi. Public health services
are provided mainly by the MOH. The Private Hospitals Association of
Halawi (PHAM), made up of church-related and other private voluntary agency
facilities, is the largest non-government provider of health services,
providing about 50 percent of the country's patient care infrastructure.
Although the two systems are not formally linked, there are plans to
achieve closer coordination. Specifically, MOR will begin to utilize PHAM
training capacity; there will be adoption of standardized preventive and
curative interventions and of standardized job descriptions and training
for health staff.
34.       MOB services are provided at five levels:  community, health
centers and rural hospitals, district hospitals, regional (central)
hospitals and special hospitals. Services at the community level consist
of an extensive network of outreach activities through mobile clinics and
the Primary Health Care (PHC) program (para. 44); this level of service
stresses interventions associated with the care of children who are under
five years of age (health education, environmental sanitation, diarrheal
disease control, immunizations, pre- and post-natal care, and growth
monitoring). The MOH runs a network of 162 health centers and 19 rural
hospitals, which are similar to health centers, although they have beds for
inpatient care. Many healtb centers, whose activities are focussed on
preventive and outpatient health care, run nutrition clinics (nutrition
education, food preparation demonstrations and free food supplements).
There are 21 district hospitals and 2 regional hospitals in the Central and
Southern Region, which serve as referral facilities respectively for health
centers/rural hospitals and district hospitals. The hospital at Zomba, in
terns of bed capacity, is larger than a district hospital, smaller than a
regional hospital, and is classified as a general hospital. Special
hospitals offer specialized services, including mental health services and
inpatient care for leprosy and tuberculosis cases. There are considerable
regional variations with regard to the distribution and coverage of
facilities. Twenty percent of all health facilities are situated in the
Northern region; 33 percent of all facilities are situated in the Central
region and 47 percent are in the Southern region. Respectively, in the
Northern, Central and Southern regions, 57, 70 and 100 percent of the
population is within 8 km of a health facility.
35.       With increasing emphasis on a preventive rural health care
system, the organizational structure of MOB has grown increasingly
cumbersome and inefficient. Recognizing this, the Malawi Civil Service
Review Commission undertook a comprehensive study of the MOB in 1984. The
study highlighted the following umajor management problem: (a) lack of
clear definition of objectives, (b) unclear lines of authority,
over-centralized decision-making and too many levels of authority at the



- 11 -
central level, and, at the district level, managers were expected to handle
too large a workload, (c) inadequate management support systems, (d) no
firm monitoring and control of expenditures, and (e) inadequate supervision
of community health workers. Other major studies have emphasized the need
for improved operational efficiency and management of hospitals and of the
Central Medical Stores. The findings and recommendations of the Civil
Service Review Commission have been studied by a high-level inter-
ministerial committee and additional management studies have been carried
out. At negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA for review and
comment a well-defined position and plan regarding reorganization of the
MOH. It was agreed that (a) a revised organizational chart would be sub-
mitted to the Association for review and comment by September 1, 1987, and
the revised organizational structure would be formally adopted by October
1, 1987; and (b) the key positions of Controllers for clinical services,
for family health, for community health services and for health technical
support would be filled by October 1, 1987.
36.       The approved capital budget of the MO1, as a percent of the total
Government budget, increased from about 1.2 percent in 1977/78 to 4.8 per-
cent in 1985/86. The 1985/86 capital budget was about 7.5 million, which
represented a per capita expenditure of about MK0.6 up from MKO019 in
1977/78.  Of this total,  1K6.3 million (84 percent) is externally financed,
and the remaining 16 percent is financed from Government resources. MOH
has continued to actively pursue hospital cost recovery. As a result of
revised fee schedules, collections have risen from MK570,000 in 1982/83
(3.3 percent of MOH gross expenditure) to MK1.6 million in 1985/86 (4.3
percent of MOH gross expenditure).  By 1990, it is projected that income
from fees will rise to MK5.3 million or 6.8 percent of MOR expenditure.
37.       An analysis of MOH's recurrent budget has indicated that an
additional MK2.03 million would be needed to implement the first three
years of plan activities. Since an increase in Treasury allocations is
unlikely, the MOH would adopt significant cost reduction measures.
Specifically, restructuring of the Central Medical Stores is expected to
yield KK910,000 in reduced costs, and efficiency measures to be implemented
in the hospital system is expected to yield MK1.2 million in 1986, rising
to MK4.3 million by 1990.  A plan of action to implement cost reduction
measures was reviewed at negotiations and it was agreed that to facilitate
implementation of the plan, the Government would (a) establish by July
31, 1987, a committee chaired by the Deputy Secretary of MOE with
representatives from each of the three major hospitals to monitor
implementation of the cost reduction measures; (b) implement cost reduction
measures at MOB and at the Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital by December 31,
1987; (c) by March 31, 1988, submit to the Association for its review and
comment an evaluation of implemented cost reduction measures and a plan for
extension of these measures to the Kamuzu and Zomba hospitals; (d) by April
30, 1988, decentralize financial accounting and management functions of the
three major hospitals from the MO0  and implement cost reduction measures at
the Kamuzu and Zomba hospitals; and (e) by December 31, 1988, implement
cost reduction measures at all district hospitals.
38.       Manpower and Training.  It was also found that of nearly 5,000
established positions in MOB, nearly 15 percent were vacant. A
considerable amount of sanpower development activities have been undertaken
during the past 5 years; nonetheless, the numbers of dentists and medical
officers have declined. However, the number of clinical officers, enrolled



- 12 -
nurses, laboratory technicians and health assistants (primarily manpower
staffing for rural health facilities) has risen substantially. It is
likely that  OH will be able to maintain adequate staffing of rural
facilities during the plan period, especially since PRAM training
facilities produce more enrolled nurses than they can absorb.
39.       Malawi continues to suffer a severe shortage of doctors despite
the large number of expatriate physicians. Only about 20 percent of
Malawian doctors trained abroad return to Malawi. Although MOB has for
some time now wanted to establish a medical school in the country,
preliminary feasibility studies have highlighted the high cost. A review
of options to establish a medical education program in conjunction with
existing teaching hospitals has recently been completed by the Ministry of
Health. The Government has appointed a coordinator who would manage the
large amount of additional preparatory work which is needed to develop a
cost-effective medical school investment program. This preparation is
expected to be completed within the next 12 months. The project would
largely not be affected by physician shortages due to the focus on
community level health care which relies primarily on auxiliary health
staff (para. 38).
40.       Pharmaceutical Procurement and Distribution.  Having overcome
problems of management efficiency, the Central Medical Stores has been
evolving since 1984 into an increasingly efficient supplier of
pharmaceuticals. Prices of drugs are fixed at CIF value plus 12.5 percent
to cover all operating costs (up from 3 percent before 1984). Regional
stores are being built in Lilongwe and Mzuzu. Implementation of plans to
improve drug procurement and monitoring has begun. The development of a
district level network, equipping of a quality control laboratory and
further training of staff constitute the next phase of development of the
pharmaceutical system.
41.       Disease Control and Prevention.  Health planning and evaluation
is made difficult by the scarcity of valid epidemiological data and NOH's
limited capacity to collect and analyze health status information. Various
disease control programs (bilharzia, tuberculosis, sexually transmitted
diseases, onchoceriasis, malaria and leprosy control programs) historically
have been developed with little coordination between each other and with
the health system as a whole. Under the ongoing IDA-assisted health
project, a Community Health Sciences Unit was established and necessary
laboratory facilities were provided to permit a more adequate assessment of
epidemiological data and the development of appropriate interventions.
UNICEF will be undertaking an Expanded Program for Immunization throughout
the country during the project period.
Health Programs
42.       The Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Program.  The MCR program was
initiated in 1973. There are MCH coordinators at both the regional and
district levels. Child care services are provided through 1,075 clinics
which cater to the care of children under 5 years of age. The objectives
of the program are to: expand throughout the country; strengthen the
training of health workers; increase immunization coverage to 80 percent of
all children by 1990; improve children's nutritional status and decrease
the incidence of underweight children through growth monitoring with
nutrition education and food supplementation where necessary; use



- 13 -
Traditional Birth Attendants (TEAs) to deliver MCH services; and promote
child spacing. A 1984 evaluation gave the program high marks for the
quality of service and the confidence in the program of those assisted.
However, coverage is far from adequate. While 60 percent of women have at
least one ante-natal visit, postpartum care is virtually non-existent and
less than 50 percent of children are being reached. Services are
constrained by lack of transport, drugs and educational materials.
43.       Child Spacing Program.  In 1983, child spacing services were
introduved in the two central hospitals in Blantyre and Lilongwe and the
Zomba General Hospital and are now available in all district hospitals.
While initially services were provided only by doctors, since the
participation of midwives who run daily child spacing clinics there has
been a significant increase in the nuuber of those requesting and using the
services. Training of trainers and service providers has exceeded the
targets and the MOH has begun to use mass media and community seminars to
spread general family health and child spacing messages. However, the
program is experiencing problems related to inadequacy of facilities and
contraceptive supplies, the lack of a good reporting system, and a lack of
coordination between MOB headquarters which orders commodities and the
Central Medical Stores (CNS) which handles contraceptive distribution. The
proposed project would implement a simple data collection and record system
supplemented by periodic sample surveys.
44.       The Primary Health Care (PEC) Program.  In 1978, the MOH began
implementation of the PHC program on a pilot basis in three districts. The
approach adopted by Malawi consists of (a) training district and health
center staff in PEC concepts and in community sensitization; and (b) the
establishment of village health committees (VHCs). VHCd, which receive
regular training and supervision, are responsible for initiating PHC
activities at the community level. MOH has now expanded the program to
cover 9 districts. Other districts are now eager to implement the PEC
program. An evaluation carried out in 1985 concluded that (a) community
participation in the program was good and understanding and acceptance of
the concept of self-reliance was developing; and (b) the education
intensive approach is providing a solid basis for nationwide expansion.
The evaluation could not assess the impact on health status because of the
short implementation period.
Bank Group Experience and Strategy
45.       IDA has been involved in Malawi's health sector since 1971 when
the first Karonga Rural Development Project included a health component.
In all, ten agricultural projects have included health components with a
total investment of about US$4.5 million. The first IDA-assisted health
project began in 1983 and focused on critical issues relating to health
planning and financing. The project components have emphasized
cost-effectiveness (through strengthening the CMS); cost recovery (with the
introduction of fees for some categories of services); stronger community
involvement (through the PHC program); consolidation rather than expansion
of health facilities; and institution building (through strengthening the
planning process and establishment of improved systems of financial
accounting). These strategies have been subsequently reflected in the
National Health Plan (1986-1995), developed by the Government under the
project in close collaboration and dialogue with IDA. The project's civil



- 14 -
works component has, however, lagged behind schedule and am a result the
projectihas been extended by two years to December 31, 1987.
46.       Bank strategy in the sector is focussed on (a) making family
health and child spacing services more accessible with an emphasis on the
comaunity-based health service delivery of the primary health care system;
(b) continuing institution building activities in the Ministry of Health by
strengthening management, manpower development, planning and evaluation
capacity; and (c) broadly disseminating family health and child spacing
concepts through the mass media and through existing educational programs
run by other ministries (a multisectoral approach). The 10 year plan is
the basis for the proposed project which finances about 53 percent of the
first three years of plan investments for which investment costs total
US$43.0 million in constant terms. The subsequent IDA lending program to
the sector would continue support for plan implementation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       Appraisal of the proposed project took place from November 27 to
December 20, 1985. A final appraisal to confirm project scope and
cofinancing arrangements took place in September 1986. The project was
negotiated in Washington, D.C. from February 2 to 6, 1987. The Halawian
delegation was led by Mr. A. Upindi, Principal Secretary, Department of
Economic Planning and Development, Office of the President and Cabinet. A
supplemental project data sheet, including a timetable of key events and a
summary of special conditions, is attached as Annex III.
A. Project Objectives and Design
48.       The objectives of the project are to: (a) improve the health
status of families, particularly mothers and children, through expansion
and strengthening of existing health programs; (b) increase the
availability and accessibility of a complete range of child spacing
services within the Maternal and Child Health (MCH) program; (c) strengthen
the MOR's capacity to plan, manage and evaluate health services in the
framework of a decentralized health system; and (d) design and implement
through other ministries a multisectoral family health program. The
project would support activities at the national, regional, district and
community levels throughout the country. The proposed project is comprised
of two parts. Part A comprises activities to be undertaken by the MOB and
Part B comprises multisectoral family health activities coordinated by the
Department of Economic Planning and Development (EP&D), Office of the
President and Cabinet.
B. Detailed Features
49.       The Government has established the following targets for the
first five-year period of the National Health Plan (1986-1995):
(a) reduction of the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) from a national average of
151/1,000 to 100/1,000 live births; (b) reduction of cuiulative mortality
of 0-4 year olds from 330/1,OO to 210/1,000; (c) reduction of maternal
mortality from 16/1,000 to 10/1,000 births; and (d) achievement of a target
of 10 percent of women of child bearing age who (or whose husbands) are
practicing contraception. While these targets may be overly ambitious,
they are indicative of the high priority placed by the Government on
improved health status and on reducing the rate of population increase.



- 15 -
Part A
Primary Health Care (PHC)
50.       The project would support the expansion of the PHC program from
9 districts at present to 6 more districts out of a total of 24. Village
Health Committees (VHCs) will continue to undertake activities in
sanitation and water, msternal and child care and treatment of common
diseases. In addition, the MOH has decided to provide child spacing
services through VHCs. This decision is significant since it means that
education on child spacing and contraceptives will soon be available at the
grassroots level throughout the country.
51.       The project would finance (a) training of VHC members and health
staff, with an emphasis on regular refresher training, and visits by health
workers to study the success and difficulties being faced in the
implementation of PHC in other areas; (b) about 400 drugs kits for VHCs, at
the rate of one kit per GHC annually; and (c) 48 motorcycles and 300
bicycles, financed in parallel by UNICEF, to improve the ability of health
staff to supervise VHCB.
52.       In each area where the PHC program is implemented, a health
center is required to act as a referral facility for village level
activities. The project would finance the upgrading to health centers of
6 existing health subcenters and the building of 19 new health centers. In
each new center, the project would finance 3 houses for 2 enrolled nurses
and one medical assistant and one house would be added at each upgraded
health center. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that the health centers (once completed) would be adequately staffed by at
least one medical assistant and 2 enrolled nurses.
53.       Health centers and rural hospitals refer patients to district
hospitals. In Malawi, a number of district hospitals function in
inadequate, old buildings, and overcrowding is common. With the
implementation of PUC programs and the introduction of child spacing
services at the district level and below, the role of the district hospital
has become even more crucial. The project would support the replacement of
one existing 102 bed hospital at Mzimba, including construction of space
for surgical contraception and 40 additional beds. In addition, provision
is made for 20 staff houses for key staff and for two ambulances and one
station wagon.
Management, Manpower and Support Systems
54.       Management.  This component would strengthen the management of
health services at the national, regional, and district levels by
restructuring the MO1  and improving systems and procedures (paras. 35 and
36). Detailed management studies of each unit of the health care delivery
system have also been completed. The proposed project would finance
short-term consultant services to develop unit and job descriptions. After
finalizing unit and job functions, national, regional, and district
workshops would be held to train health staff in management and new
procedures. A national five-day workshop for 25 unit heads and program
managers would take place annually. A four-month consultancy would be
provided to develop curricula and plan the seminars. The project would
also finance three one-month study tours annually to neighboring countries



- 16 -
55.       The project would support establishment of a regional health team
in each of the country's three regions and a vehicle and driver for each
team. A regional health team would comprise a regional health officer
(team leader), a regional nursing officer, a regional NCR coordinator, and
a regional public health inspector who would back up and supervise health
services in the region. The positions of three regional health officers
and three regional nursing officers would be filled by October 1, 1987.
56.       To address issues related to hospital management and
administration, detailed studies of hospital management made recommenda-
tions which could save up to 40 percent of non-personnel costs. The
project would support annual workshops in hospital management and
administration for all hospital secretaries and administrators.
57.       The Planning Unit of the MOH was expanded and six new posts were
established through the first IDA-assisted project. With the development
of a National Health Plan (para. 32) and training in planning of senior
Planning Unit officials, the Planning Unit has evolved into an effective
organization. The project would support the MOlts efforts to decentralize
its planning capability by strengthening district level planning. A senior
internationally recruited health planner, appointed in 1986, has begun
training district level staff. The project would provide training courses
in health planning and one five-day workshop annually for 20 senior
officials to assess implementation of the plan and to recommend
modifications in strategy.
58.       The project would finance the salaries of an expenditure control
accountant, three regional level accountants and one accountant at each of
the three main hospitals and at each of the 21 district hospitals. Also,
four computers would be financed (one for the MOR headquarters and the
remaining three for the main hospitals in Blantyre, Lilongwe and Zomba).
The Government provided assurances that the positions of expenditure
control accountant, three regional accountants and one accountant at each
of the main three hospitals would be filled by October 1, 1987. Assurances
were also provided that a position of assistant accountant at each of the
21 district hospitals would be established by August 31, 1988.
59.       Manpower.  Manpower development under the project focusses
primarily on longer run development of health manpower and capacity.
Implementation of the project does not require significant additional
manpower. This component Includes: (a) strengthening the capacity of the
MOB to train enrolled nurses; (b) establishing an in-service training
capacity; and (c) developing MOR's capability to undertake manpower
planning and analysis. Project assistance would include (a) construction,
furnishing and equipping of one school and boarding facilities for enrolled
nurses, with a capacity for 140 students to be built near the Zomba General
Hospital; (b) in-service training for about 1,000 health workers annually
by construction, furnishing and equipping of three regional level training
facilities; and (c) overseas training for one year in manpower planning.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that a training officer
would be appointed by September 1, 1987, to coordinate in-service training
activities and that, beginning December 31, 1987, annual in-service
training plans for the GOM fiscal year beginning the following April would
be submitted to IDA for review and comment. IDA has reviewed and found
satisfactory the content of all the proposed training programs and courses
to be included in the proposed project.



- 17 -
60.       Efforts to improve the efficiency of the pharmaceutical system
would continue under the project with decentralization of the system. The
project would finance the renovation of pharmaceutical depots at eight
district hospitals including furniture and equipment, and the establishment
of a quality control laboratory. Through 28 man-months of consultant
services the project would finalize drug legislation, review CMS drug
production processes, review quality control procedures, and computerize
CMS operations. There would be training for drug prescribers and for
pharmacy assistantB in the scope and functions of the revised CKS. The
project would also finance 25-1/2 months of overseas training in drug
inspection, drug administration, quality control and drug manufacture.
Family Health
61.       This component would support the maternal and child health, child
spacing, and nutrition programs.
62.       MCH.  This program would be strengthened by the replacement of 27
vehicles andi2 boats, to be used for service supervision and for the
provision of mobile services at the regional and district levels. The
project finances a one month consultant for the development of (a) an
integrated course in family health for 200 health workers to be held
annually; (b) annual in-service training in priority diseasote (diarrhea,
malaria, respiratory illness, measles and nutritional deficiency) for 900
health workers; (c) development of a MCH manual for use by health workers
in MOH and PRAM units; (d) printing of Information, Education and
Communications (IEC) and training materials developed for the MCH program;
and (c) annual drug supplies for 1,100 MCH centers and 639 ante-natal
clinics. Training activities would emphasize development of post-natal
services.
63.       Child Spacing.  The project would provide extensive orientation
to health staff and VHC members and training to service providers in child
spacing concepts; and would finance the printing of IEC materials for child
spacing. The project provides a one month consultancy to review training
plans for surgical contraception and to develop a system of quality
control. The project would also finance (a) the building, furnishing and
equipping of surgical contraception units at seven district hospitals; (b)
construction, furnishing and equipping of three urban health centers in
Blantyre and Lilongwe and an urban family health unit in Lilongwe; and (c)
the upgrading of two existing health centers in Blantyre and Lilongwe. The
project would support the appointment of six medical assistants and 16
enrolled nurses for the new urban family health centers. During
negotiations assurances were provided that these staff would be appointed
to the urban centers once completed.
64.       Nutrition.  The project would promote nutrition education through
MOH and growth surveillance at health clinics. These activities would be
undertaken in conjunction with the Ministry of Community Services (MOCS).
The project would finance the development and production of flip charts,
posters and booklets for use by the MOR through health clinics. Health
workers would be trained in nutrition as part of the family health training
program. To further develop nutrition activities the project would provide
two person months of consultancy.



- 18 -
Part B
Functional Literacy and Women's Programs
65.       The Government hopes to reach 2 million people by 1990 through
its adult functional literacy program which is run by the Ministry of
Community Services (MOCS). This project component would introduce topics
related to child spacing, nutrition and maternal and child health into the
functional literacy curriculum by financing the design and production of
written/pictorial materials. All adult literacy centers would be blanketed
with this information, and all grassroots workers would be trained on
family health topics. The project would finance (a) the construction,
furnishing and equipping of a MOCS training center for the Northern Region;
(b) 10 study tours of one month duration by planners and program managers
from MOCS to study the operational aspects of similar successful programs
in adult functional literacy and women's activities in neighboring
developing countries; (c) training women's groups to undertake nutrition
surveillance and related nutrition education; and (d) the construction of
fish ponds to provide protein for mothers and children at the village
level. The Government would establish by September 1, 1987, a Health
Education Review Committee chaired by the Deputy Chief Medical Officer,
with members from the Ministries of Health and Community Services and the
Information and Youth Departments to approve Information, Education and
Communications (IEC) messages prepared by non-MOH agencies under all
components of Part B of the project.
Youth Programs
66.       Youth between 13 to 19 years of age are an important target group
for family health education activities. While the Malawi Young Pioneers
(MYP) program trains youth in this age group in a number of technical and
social activities, family health education needed for fertility regulation
is not provided. This leads to unplanned pregnancies and an increase in
the school dropout rate. Youth participating in the MYP tend to be role
models in their communities and their training in family health concepts
would therefore benefit a broad range of Malawian youth. The project
component would provide (a) training and educational materials on family
health topics to 100 MYP matron/instructors/instructresses to be in turn
imparted to MYP youth; (b) basic training courses for young women; (c) the
construction of 10 simple shelters to be attached to existing dispensaries,
where MYP and community training courses would be held; and (d) the
provision of sewing machines and the establishment of fish ponds to
demonstrate income generating activities. Income generation, particularly
for women, has been demonstrated to reduce morbidity and fertility.
Information, Education and Communication
67.       This component, to be implemented by the Information Department,
Office of the President and Cabinet, would make comprehensive use of the
mass media for the dissemination of family health messages. Health and
child spacing messages would be introduced into the Chichewa paper, Boma
Lathu- which reaches a monthly audience of 500,000. The messages would
also be disseminated by poster boards on long distance buses; labels on
match boxes; radio programs; and through the production of two 20 minute
films annually. The project would finance overseas training of three
Information Department staff in graphics, audio-visual techniques and



- 19 -
development comunications. These staff would focus primarily on
developing family health messages.
Project %osts and Financing
68.       Total costs of the proposed project amount to MK49.8 million or
US$24.9 million equivalent (US$24.5 million net of taxes and duties).
Foreign exchange costs account for US$11.6 million or 47 percent of total
project costs. Project costs have been estimated for civil works on the
basis of the value of current Ministry of Works and Supplies contracts for
comparable buildings. Incremental salaries, local training costs and
operational and maintenance expenses are based on current government scales
and rates. Total costs include US$2.4 million equivalent for
contingencies. Physical contingencies include 10 percent for civil works
and 10 percent for vehicles and equipment. The following price
contingencies have been included: (a) on foreign exchange expenditures, 12
percent in 1986, 3 percent in 1987, 1 percent in 1988, and 1 percent in
1989; and (b) on local cost 4xpenditures, 13 percent in 1986, 10 percent in
1987, 8 percent in 1988 and 6 percent in 19B9. Price contingencies account
for 4 percent of base costs. In view of the gap between domestic and
foreign inflation rates, the exchange rate is assumed to adjust so as to
maintain purchasing power parity.
69.       Of the total project costs, US$1.9 million wocald be financed by
the Government, which would cover all operating costs, 6 percent of the
Investment costs of the project and all taxes and duties. The proposed IDA
credit of US$11.0 million would finance 44 percent of the total project
cost and would support the construction and equipping of (a) 12 new health
centers and the upgrading of 6 existing health centers and associated
housing, (b) one. district hospital, (c) the Zomba School of Nursing, (d) 3
regional health training centers, and (e) a regional training center at
Mzuzu. It would also support (a) technical assistance and training for the
management, manpower and support systems component of the project (except
the subcomponent related to drug production and supply), (b) the provision
of 27 vehicles and two boats for the MCH program, (c) the establishment of
163 fish ponds, production and printing materials for the functional
literacy program, and (d) training activities for youth programs and
assistance for project management. UNICEF is providing US$2.6 million to
support (a) the primary health care program; (b) equipment for new and
upgraded health centers and technical assistance, materials and support for
workshop and training activities for the MCH program; and (c) technical
assistance and production of materials for nutrition activities delivered
through the MOH and MOCS. The European Development Fund is expected to
contribute US$3.5 million and would support (a) the establishment of 7 new
health centers and associated housing; (b) training activities of the
functional literacy program; and (c) equipment, materials and monitoring
activities for the IEC program.  The KfW would contribute US$4.1 million
and would support (a) construction and equipping of the urban family health
unit in Lilongwe; (b) 7 surgical contraception units; (c) 3 new urban
health centers; (d) upgrading and re-equipping of 2 existing urban health
centers; (e) technical assistance to the surgical contraception program;
and (f) salaries and maintenance costs related to the maternal and child
health and child spacing programs. The Government of the Netherlands would
provide US$.9 million to finance the drug production and supply
sub-component. The United Nations Fund for Population Activities would
provide US$.95 million to support training activities, technical assistance



- 20 -
and material production for the child spacing program. The Government
provided assurances that should investments be proposed outside the agreed
program for the first five years of the Health Plan, those investments
would be undertaken only by mutual agreement with IDA.
Project Implementation
70.       The Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Health would have
overall responsibility for implementation of Part A while the Deputy
Secretary, Economic Planning and Development Department (EP&D), would have
overall responsibility for coordination of Part B of the project, although
day to day responsibility would be carried by the Principal Secretary for
the Ministry of Community Servlces. The Health Education Review Committee
(para. 65) would also support implementation of Part B. For Part A, a
full-time project coordinator would be responsible for day-to-day project
management. Two coordinating committees, one each for Part A and Part B of
the project, would be established and would meet every month to discuss
implementation progress. The coordinating committees would include senior
representatives of all agencies and departments involved in the project.
The coordinating committees would be chaired respectively by the Principal
Secretary of MOH and by the Deputy Secretary of EP&D. The Planning Unit,
which would have principal responsibility for day to day project
implementation activities, would be strengthened by the appointment (by
October 1, 1987) of an architect and of a procurement officer whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA. Starting from FY88,
annual implementation plans would be submitted to IDA four months 'efore
the beginning of the Malawian financial year. In addition, an overall
project coordinating committee for both parts of the project, under the
chairmanship of the Principal Secretary of EP&D would be established by
October 1, 1987, and would include the Principal Secretary of the KOH and
the Principal Secretaries of the other concerned agencies or departments.
A mid-term review of project implementation would be carried out not later
than December 31, 1988. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1992.
Procurement
71.       It is expected that 27 percent of total project costs would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB), including
construction of the Mzimba District Hospital (US$2.6 million) and of the
Zomba School of Nursing (US$1.0 million). Local firms bidding for
contracts would receive a preference of 7.5 percent. Civil works contracts
for 12 rural health centers, 3 regional health training centers, and a
functional literacy regional training center, are too small and scattered
to attract firms from outside Malawi and would be awarded following
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. The remaining items of civil works (upgrading 6
existing rural health centers and associated housing, 10 shelters and 163
fish ponds), which account for about US$.5 million, would be by force
account of the Ministry of Works and Supplies.
72.       Furniture and equipment would be grouped as far as possible into
contracts valued at US$100,000 or more, and would be procured through ICB.
Furniture and equipment contracts valued at less than US$100,000 but more
than US$20,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.0 million. Furniture or equipment
:r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ~    ~   --



- 21 -
at least three price quotations, provided that the aggregate value of such
purchaseas does not exceed US$300,000. Vehicles would be procured am a
package through ICB and suppliers would be required to maintain adequate
after-sales service and an inventory of spare parts. Contracts for IEC
materials and supplies would be awarded following competitive bidding
advertised locally, In accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. All
IDA-financed contracts over US$200,000 procured through ICB would be
subject to prior IDA review. Other contracts would be subject to selective
post award review. For all consultants employed for this project,
qualifications, experience and ternm and conditions of employment would be
in accordance with the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and The World Bank as an Executing Agency" (August 1981).
PROCUREMENT TABLE 1/
(US$ millions)
ICB      LCB      OTHER2/   N.A.3/  TOTAL
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  Civil Works and Design      3.8        3.9        4.0        0.0   11.7
Fees                       (3.2)     (3.3)        (-)        (-)   (6-5)
B.  Furniture, Equipment        3.0        0.6        2.1        0.0    5.7
Vehicles, Materials        (2.3)     (0.2)        (-)        (-)   (2.5)
C.  Technical AssiBtance        0.0        0.0        0.3         1.3    1.6
H-        H-          -         (1.3)  (1.3)
D. Monitoring, Research,        0.0       0.0         0.1        0.2    0.3
and Evaluation              C-)       (-)         ()        (0.2)  (0.2)
E.  Training                    0.0       0.0         2.8        0.4    3.2
C-)       C-)        (-)        (0.4)  (0.4)
F. Overseas Training            0.0       0.0         0.1        0.1    0.2
(-)       C-)        (-)        (0.1)  (0.1)
II.  RECURRENT COSTS            0.0       0.0         1.6        0.6    2.2
TOTAL                           6.8       4.5        11.0        2.6   24.9
TOTAL IDA                      (5.5)     (3.5)        H-)       (2.0) (11.0)
2 of Total                      27%       18%         45%        10%    100%
1/  Number:; in paxenthesis show the costs to be financed by IDA.
T/ Other includes itens financed in parallel by donor agencies.
3/ NA includes activities not subject to procurement.
Dis bursements
73.       Proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 85 percent of total expenditures for civil works; (b) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and 90 percent for local
training and for locally procured services, equipment, supplies, vehicles;
and (c) 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services and external
fellowships. All cofinancing would be on a parallel basis as divisible
components have been assigned to individual cofinanciers.



- 22 -
74.       In order to expedite the flow of funds for disbursements, a
Special Account with an initial deposit of US$.9 million would be
established ln US dollars with a commercial bank. All disbursement
requests would be fully documented, except that disbursements against
expenditures for civil works, equipment, supplies and materials under
contracta or purchase orders for less than US$20,000 equivalent would be
supported by Statements of Expenditures, documentation for which would be
held by the implementing agencies and he mado available for inspection by
supervision missions.
Monitoring, Reportink and Evaluation
75.      Each project coordinator would monitor the progress of
implementation of their respective part of the project and the coordinator
for Part A would prepare and submit to IDA and other donors quarterly
progress reports on overall project implementation. Regular coordination
meetings of the donor agencies would be held in Lilongwe.
76.       A number of indicators would be utilized to measure p;ogress.  To
measure attainment by 1991 of the 10 percent target of contraceptive use by
women of child bearing age, annual targets by contraception method have
been developed. During the project period, the number of women using
contraceptives is expected to increase by about 45 percent to about
55,000. If the 10 percent target is achieved (from the current level of 2
percent), then (a) the total fertility would be in the range of 7.0-7.1
(from the current level estimated at 7.7), and (b) a scenario of moderate
fertility decline would result whereby the population would increase to 17
million by 2015. This represents a 70 percent increase in population In 30
years as compared to a 200 percent increase if fertility were to remain
constant.
77.       In addition, several surveys and studies are being financed under
the management component and by UNICEF as follows: (a) a base-line health
status and utilization survey; (b) a study of the impact of revised fee
schedules on service utilization and a study on the potential for health
insurance; (c) annual review workshope of the hlealth Plan; (d) annual
impact studies of various programs; (e) a mid-term evFaluation of the PHC
program; (f) a special evaluation of the Ezrpanded Program of Immunization;
and (g) a tuberculosis prevalence survey. The Governmnent has provided
assurances that the results of these surveys would be made available to IDA
within three sonthc of their completion for review and comment.
Accounts and Audit
78.       Project funds would be maintained in a separate account and would
be channeled from the Ministry of Finance to the MOH for Part A and the
EP&D for Part B and would be administered by the respective Deputy
Secretaries. Project financial records would be maintained by the Chief
Accountant, NOR, for Part L and by tk.4. ChLef Accountant, Office of the
President and Cabinet for Part B. the Government Ihas provided assurances
that audit of project accounts and statements of expenditures by the
Auditor General or indepenldent auditors acceptable to IDA would be made
available to IDA within six months of the close of each GOlf fiscal year.



- 23 -
Project Benefits
79.       In the medium to long term, the project financed programs in
i_'   ffamily health, disease prevention and nutrition are expected to
significantly reduce morbidity, mortality and fertility levels (para. 49).
Thro-zg'i increased coverage of comimnity based health services, the project
is expected to directly reach and thereby improve the health status of
about two Allion people.  Child spacing services would be introduced in
rural ar.as. At the district level, strengthening the hbopital system and
-provision of surgical contraception units would provide a complete range of
family health and child spacing services. The institution of In-service
training would ensure that the quality of service providers remains good.
Activities to improve management and support system combined with
restructuring of MOH would contribute to cost savings, more efficient use
of manpower and improved health care delivery. Continued strengthening of
-health planning at the national and district levels would ensure that
-h'ealth programs address priority health problems. The implementation of
new accounting systems at the MOR, at district level, and, in the hospitals
would enable better monLtorLng of expenditures, and improved fee
collection. Expansion of the pharmaceutical system up to the district
level would further improve the efficiency of distribution.
80.       Family health activities through the multisectoral approach are
expected to benefit about 2.5 million people. Of these, about 600,000
people would be reached through the functional literacy program, 300,000
through women's programs, 100,000 through youth programs, and 1.5 million
through IEC activities.   These activities are expected to increase
awareness of family health problems in the short-term and in the
medium-term result in increased demand for family health services.
Project Risks
81.       The main project risk relates to the MOE's weak organizational
structure and implementation capacity particularly with regard to civil
works. In the first Health Project, the MOB has been unable to adequately
coordinate with the Ministry of Works and Supply (MOWS). Furthermore, the
MOWS has been understaffed for about two years. Steps taken to minimize
this risk include the hiring of expatriate architects to supplement and
train existing staff and to coordinate with MOWS. Also, arrangements have
been made to advance project preparation with tender documents for all ICB
contracts having been completed prior to negotiations. The Government has
shown strong COmmiL dent to carrying out a comprehensive restructuring of
the Ministry which would strengthen its capacity to implement the project
and to improve the overall efficiency of sectoral management.
82.       A second risk concerns the introduction of family health
activities through a multisectoral approach. The EP&D would be expected to
undertake a new function as coordinator for multisectoral activities.
Through additional staffing, training, and technical assistance, its
coordinating role in the area of health activities would be developed
gradually. In the meantime, this component is being implemented through
the ministries and departments which have a good track record for
implementing other projects. The activities being undertaken would
initially be of a pilot nature, and major expansion of multisectoral family
health prograus would be considered at the next phase, based on this
initial experience.



- 24 -
PART V - RECOMHKEDATION
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreemnt of the Associatlon and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washlngton, D.C.
March 5, 1987



- 25 -
ANNEX I
1qpa11 *      7-0   (13 illuW
1 Q     Ip1t*U 3WIlO  (115)                                                                              Page  I of  3-
_ticaur  at on=*m                                                  . .
MSU m  mdmm mm                                             m                   
13          1140                 118    IlK   1183 11S     5   13R1  -    1          111
omu 1cpmkc t                1466         -0.7 W -52    3.0   3.6   3.3   2.9           3.1     3    LS    3.7    Lg
AglaabF                    291.1             -L4 6.54.3    5.6  0.9                  3.0   3.1  3.3    3.5   3.
hIMAM                      IO.          14-L.    0.1   3.1   0.4   4.1               3.3    LS    3.7   3.9   461
NW            b5                        4.0 -3.0    L3    3.2   2.    4.2           3L    3.4   3.    LS    461
tl_uv"cn                      97.2       -LI   -4.3  -1.1    3.7   2.6    L4          -t.1    3.4   2.4   1.9   3.9
0c= 1uu                      1735       -13.7  -31.1   2L4   10.'  -36.5   15.2       17.6   1.5   7.8      i    3.9
h_m of IQS                   31.0        Z.8  -19.8   -.9   460   23.l   2.Z           LS    3.7   3.9    40    il
i     dm at Ws               33.3       -97  -2169   -5.0    1.5  -1.2   13.6         3.0   3.1    3.2   3.3   5.4
_am  uat  umbh                1          -4.4   5.97   U0   14.3  22.19  -7           3.0   3.1   16.3   2.6    3.9
Cm dml&c (193 - IOD)                    130  139.3  1        10  191.7  31.3        221.0  24.0  251.0  21.1    M
3dm_mrm  (WsU)                            1.    1.12  L0.I   0.5   0.7    0.31    o.5    0.46  0.43   OA5   am
(u at 01    Ime aF                                   (me *F_.W tbmm
(ws   am     L95 I                              w-         ma19815)
1913   1983   1163                                > 11097-  N      39-0
-tm          sxUc jr e                  10.N  101.0  I0D.0  no                               5.6      L        3.5
Alt I l z   3.am   m      37.5   V.2   37.  37.0                              5.8      1.8      3.3
lazy    I-* Zta at Oa                  19.   IZ   18.   19.3                                4.7     4.0       3.7
01w          fafwbo                    43.1   418   &3.5  437                               5.9     LS        3.
*     Oimpal                                   834   SB   R3   93                                   5.0     1.9      L2
Oka  U      t                            31.6 Z63   15.7  17.8                               4.3    -4.1       1.2
1t @3aw5                                 21L1   26.6  24.4  246                              t.7      10       3.8
iacmu GUS                                509   41A    3.0   Z.5                              3.Z    -L4        3.2
_m  n.t_ll   I Z                         12.6  1L4    6.6   1.                                       I 2        1.8
1970171   1973/    Ilui     1im      M918   13/6   i/
Oxmt  _mm                                         15.3     16.5     2L0       19.7     19.9      2L9      226
Otlt       t                                      1ls3     15.4     2L5J    21.0       3.I       21.1     23.6
9uph  O.) a d4r1r I-)                            -1.1       1.1     -4.5      -1.3      0.2     -0.7      -1.0
tO l O        _AU.                                12.4     12.9     1I6       IL2      10.0      IL2       9.6
F4 1f1nudai                                      IL2        8.8      S.7       9.4      9.0      3.5       6.5
197-0     1U5    198340
am
or aw   tlm()                            5.8        3.72     3.16
l p-r aqu  gP        ZEN (2)             Lg         Leo0     0.40
H      MmtD  Sodk ZOE tzL         Z      .12Z                LZ.6
mm                                       44         LDW    4.37
IbgzulladS   vr                          0.1      -411       0.43
1ut  ml-tidty                           4L2        -3.50     0.91
y Im      au mm        at factwam
jw n3- at o-
But md i din Mint f1a'
bFa9. 1316
EriOl-S



faW w .amI WI70 (IS)                                   - 26 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
m- aentu ind
(NMIls uR$                        Actual                                  "Safm
&Ales=                 at urma piama
i9s           Iwo     ml      a l n ol   we4   HIS          me    iw    INS   is8   lm
zmum
mnS.dia  Nccm                 3*9.          22.9  -16.5   -I.6    4.3  3t3    2.          3.5    3.      3.9    4.0    4.2
ldmy                        231.9         17.3  -19.5  -6.1    4.7   34.5    2.5        3.3    3.4    3.6    3.6    3.7
Ibutnhb                      17.6        111.0    9.6  -AL46    0.3   i4A      LO5      6.0    6.3    7.0    7.5    8.0
ildimdIsa lqhcct              391.          -5.1  -23.9  -5.0    1.5  -12.0   13.6        3.0   3L1    3.2    3.3    3.4
Fad                          fli          33.0   57.2  -56.3  -11.4  -30.    IL4        3.0    3.1    3.2    3.3    3.4
ittmacla                     61          -6.6   -3.0  -as8    L7   -i.6    3.3         LI1   3.7    3.9    3.5    3.0
Ildimry sad .,A.t            66.7         11.9  -51.3  -16.1  -3.    -5.8   15.0        7.2    7.3    7.5    LO    7.6
Odnt                         161.7       -145   -6.4   4.6    25  -196   17.0           0.7    0.6   0L5    0.5    0.7
MmK (1110-leo)
aipwt plsia"                                1.1   31.0    9.1   -1.3   36.1  -220        10.     LI7   1.2    1.1    1.3
biqit pdm  swh                              21.6   16.9    7.6   23.8   29.2   15.5      11.3    8.6    3.2    0.6    4.5
2 ~ cc tfobl 1m                            -17.0   I9t0    1.3  -03.5    ti   -t.S    -4-0.    -L.1    0.9    3.5  -0.2
1Y,uldimat lttdmi  ia.fl   (Z)                         I.qm Amuat Jan          CZ)
(at aorit pwl)                                   (at moatw  1979 pilt)
S1  19 19 n    19m    i                           1975-00   iwo-es       -o1939 9
00.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                             9.6      2.8       3.9
ftlscy                         tO~~~~~~~9L    10.7   31.3   ULN                      0.3      3.2       3.5
l dnm porB                  2^S          2L97.4   10.3   9.7   12.                             1738     0.9       7.0
100.0  100.    000  1MD.                             -LI      -5.2       3.2
tVW                                        4.9    7.3    7.1    7.1                            -0.9    -4.5       3.2
l!I.iB    .                                9.1   13.9   13.2  1L1                                3      -           4
Ibdm  4- Md ap n                          263 W  3-.1   23.    3.2                              LO    -12.6       7.5
othm                                      61.5 414.   51.    46.0                              -4.5    -3.0       0.6
3m.s of ItS. with             Mm. of tabd  wlinh                     ofe ata   mmt
IuSstdai 0ma1e. C!)            DwuiaSc aa G ls (2)            COLCtl zuiuso 011 tarnemym 
I9o    1975    a9n            Iwo    L975    i9o                 1iwo     1975     1960
bpoct                    66.3   76.2   iLO             11.3    10.3     7.0               23.      u.s       24.0
impu      1          5.7    6166    75.0           21.2    14.5    6.0                19.0    2D.7   41 t
swamr ad mflu Utica Fqlmu
.a      9, 19.6
inr10bH ~      ~         ~        I9      9o    "       99                             5e          5     191s



-27 -                                                        ANNEX I
hpdacls    n7.m  c(uss nls                                                                                          Page  3  of  3
Mr ur w tat I170 '1 16)
-Q- mat ma wuua s
(lmu~S =Wa aplm)
uw    a:   un   aims        u1 rs                                        M
Uqma of pod ad syed                      33.1  329.3  267.5   M.1  340.   34          30.3  36  365.3  36.2  42W.9
of     flmu rdmwdm  f.oh.              33.2  26.2  24.6  230.3  317  25.1            295.4  311.6  337.3  3M2    3.9
d ofunk ad units                   -my -4540  412.0  412.0  364.3  3861           419.7  4262  4U04  466.5  W.1
of dddu  1Wdadts f.b                  -319.2  23.2 -1913  -13I.   16LI.  15.9        Z3.2  227.5  242.3  231.6  212
lit t nus.16.4  21.1  3L0    12.7    .6    37                                           L.2    6.0    61    6.3    L0
O    out sf     - bmoa                  .Z5.2 -1336 -325 -142  -15.9 -100              432  -3.6  -79.0  -47.0  -72
Mutevxdi" O nce l  a                       -     -      -       -      -     -          -      -      -      -      -
fflcaI put am                             3.l   4.4  36.3  29.5   24.4   21              l1   3L2   35.3  361   36.2
Hz las  (no)                             127.2  57.5   4.1      7    65.3   5.1       100.6   61.7   72.2    53   38.6
Offl                                    97.5   707   60.6   5.8   9.4  6L9           126.9  130   9L6    66D   61.2
nie                                     3.7   1.6  -14.5  -14.1  -2.6  -37.8        -36.1  -23  -336  -11.7  -26
otlu mta                                 115.2    1.0  -4.2   51.0   7.9  -36         -132  -11.3  -11.3  -13.1  -7.4
e  in mai  (-- uas)                      -3S.3  -I.3  4i.3 Z0.3  -L2   5.4           -25      L30  -17.0  -10.3  -14.2
Ott_ inwntisdl.                           7 30   49.6   2LG   13.Q7           0        6.2   1.2  10.Z  110.5  15Z.2
itt h_tacl      w                         -      -      -     -        -     -        -3L.  -24.    122   43.9  69.1
tsxuwsain.           q "                   L4    1.2    0.7   0.4    L0    1.3          1.6    L3    2.7    2.5   2.9
mo        aun  AND or
Cu.. Nabsumaome                          210.3  173.6  IILI  101.3  135.7  90.4       191.5  170.S  110.3  33.5  151.8
ao cld                                   10.l   4.4   3h3   2.5   24.4   25.1         30.1   33.2  33.3   3.1   3.2
0      1enl 1...                         40.0  44.1   43.3  54.4   67.0   5.0    134.1  111.9  18.1   U.0  9DA
VC                                      17.7  IL6    7.9    7.3    L0    5.0         10.1   10.0   5.0   I.1   20.
WE                                       -     -     -    -      _                       _     _    _     _     _  - - 
IDI.                                    15.1   210   27.1   3.3  77.0   34.3         7L3   500    0.    3.0  60.0
:  Qtlaer                               Z7.2   13.5   10.3   14.6   4.0   M3.7       564   51.9   0.1   33.9   10.4
Nurouinlct  1                            30.L2   3.1   3.5  17.6   24.3  12.3           5.4  25.4   3L1   1.17  23.3
OfLd alUmt n.M                          23.2    3.4    1.2  IL7    9.2   7.4          L2    6.4   7.B    4.2    L3
-                                        7.6  26.7   2L0    L5    0.2   0.5           7.2   31.0   10.0  13.0  1S.0
1ir          a                           4.5    3.0   0.7    2.0   10.7   3.5          .0    Lo    L3    1.0   4.0
yawn                                    37.9  47.8   7.6   7.4    4.2   0.9           1.0   0.0    0.0   D.0    0.0
-bt OAadlgd a Dt red  4                03 67  6.L5  710.6  73.6  73M4  752         866.5  594.7  956.7 EMS.  ICS
Offi                                 4167   y7  461.3  513.4  551.8  637.4         733.5" 8W.3  al7.9   49.7 1006
M*;s                                 227.0  243.  2Z93  215.2  16.6  14U           112.7  89.4  668   57.1   5L5
IdmhnsI ddt                              171.2  2.5  IlL8  226  191.4  99.6           310.L  3Z5.1  31LZ  3M.7  35L5
Det Savnce
-ml a                                  1mL6  II.7  101.7.  76.6  116.7  114.4      321.4  IL2.   1I.2  105.8  111.3
11VAMM1Y                                6Lo   61J.  42.5   4.3   45   46.O           465    4.9  657   47.3   U.8
D1 O      ad 1pada                       6.6   1      21.9   15.3  29.6  23.3        3L1   367   33.1   30.2  2LI
IDWMM2 _                                3      31.2   3L0   3L6   3LZ   43           37.9   33.6  31.0   2.9   3.0
I rqeln.at ts el              (l)     5.1   6.7    3.2   6.1   3.0   1.2           1.3    1.4    2.0    2.0   2.0
oindal
&mom &wLqof alowe    b        ("O)       21.4   JJ.   Z5.6   19.5  41.6  4L1           45.0  43.0   41.0   39.0  37.0
Officil.
AM% of Oak *otudtadh
t ad ofD     *, 16
itaitty stie of debt gaaSthS8
Itwuitts d6  SitW. 5 yaI                       2L4
Lertis 6. Iiild  10 PMa,                       45.4
,est ufcfl  of debt seMaSh
if   Sth-  dud. flbm  1                         4Le
El fclSSs DV                                                       lawn ad Sflu  AIde 1ti.
43Dr leid.. lD  dw n                         r9. 3



-28-                         ANN EII
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1986)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                    Undis-
Credit No. Year Borrower    Purpose                 Bank     IDA    bUrsed
6 loans and 20 credits have been fully disbursed  74.96   238.54
Cr. 857-MAI  79  Halawi  NRDP I                              22.00    0.05
Cr. 992-HAI 80    n       NRDP II                             13.80    3.46
Cr.1123-MAI  81    "      Education IV                       41.00   10.78
Cr.1183-MAI  82    "      NRDP III                             7.30    3.07
Cr.1272-MAI 82            Lil. Water Supply Eng.              4.00    0.98
Cr.1330-MAI  83    "      Education V                        34.00   28.66
Cr.1343-MAI  83    n      NRDP IV                            10.60    8.52
Cr.1351-NAI  83    n      Health                              6.80    4.50
Cr. 1352-MAI  83    "     Suallholder Fert.                   5.00    0.02
Cr.1423-MAI  84    "      Highway V                          26.90a/  3.95 a/
Ln.2363-MAI  84           Highway V                 18.00            - 15.50
Cr.1428-MAI  84    n      Tech. Assist. II                    1.50    0.85
Ln.2486-MAI  85    n      Wood Industries            6.40              4.56
Cr.1528-NAI  85    '      Urban Housing                      15.00   17.95
Cr.1549-MI  85    -       Natl. Agri. Res.                   23.80   27.74
Cr.1644-MAI  86 b/        SAL III                            30.00   11.10
Cr.1626-MAI 86 -          Agri. Ext. & Planning              11.60   13.64
Ln.2646-iAI  86    -      Industrial & Agri. Cr.    7.80               7.80
Ln.2670-HAI  86 cf        Second Wood Energy        16.70             16.70
TOTAL                                        123.86   491.84  179.83
of which has been repaid                    6.74      6.77
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               117.12   485.07
Amount sold           .30
of which repaid    .30
TOTAL undisbursed                             44.56   123.27  179.83
a/  Includes Special Fund Credit.
bh  In addition, a US$50.0 million equivalent credit was provided from the
Special African Facility.
c0  In addition, on November 20, 1986, a credit of US$20.0 million was
approved for the Second Water Supply Project.
L:.-:~~.*- .                                   ..



-29-                         ANNE-l
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMNT OF IPC INWESTMS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Investment Fiscal                     Type of
Number     Year   Obligor             Busless        Loan    Equity   Total
--(US$ Million)---
326-MAI    76,82  David Whitehead    Textiles        10.8        -     10.8
& Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI    77,81  Dwangwa             Sugar          11.3        -     11.3
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-NAI    79     Investment and      Development       -        0.6    0.6
Development        Finance
Bank of Malavi     Company
502-HAl    80,84  Malawi              Touriss         2.1        -      2.1
Hotels
Limited
542-MAI    81,82  Ethanol Company    Manufactur-
Limited of         iug Alcohol
Malawi             from
Nolasses       2.2         0.3    2.5
832-MAI    86     Leasing & Finance Money & Capl-
Corp. of Halawi    tal Market      0.6        1.0    0.6
Total gross commitments                             27.0         0.9   27.9
Lees cancellatidns, terminations,                    10.4        -     10.4
repayments and sales
Total commitments now held by IFC                    16.6        0.9   17.5
Total Undisbursed                                    0.6         0.1    0.6
[annex-2(HT-0. 5)]
''-~~~~ '-- ..-                                                                      



- 30 -                   ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
A FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                9 months
(b)  Prepared by:                                  Government of Malawi
(c)  First Bank mission to consider proJect:       November 1984
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:                  November 27, 1985
(e)  Negotiations:                                 February 1987
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness:                June 1987
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) By September 1, 1987, a revised organizational chart for MOH would be
submitted to IDA for review and comment and the revised organization
would be formally adopted and the key positions of controllers for
clinical services, family health, community health services, and
health technical support, would be filled, by October 1, 1987
(para. 35).
(b) By key dates, implementation of cost reduction measures at the three
major hospitals, at the NOH and at district hospitals would be
implemented (para. 37).
(c) Each health center, once completed, would be adequately staffed by at
least one medical assistant and two enrolled nurses (para. 52).
(d) Filling by October 1, 1987, of the positions of three regional health
officers and three regional nursing officers (para. 55).
(e) A training officer would be appointed by September 1, 1987, to
coordinate in-service training activities; in-service training plans
for the COM fiscal year beginning the following April would be
submitted to IDA for review and comment by December 31, 1987, and
annually thereafter (para. 59).
(f) Filling by October 1, 1987, of the position of one expenditure control
accountant at the MOE, three regional accountants and one accountant
at each of the main three hospitals (para. 58).
(g) Establishment by August 31, 1988, of the position of assistant
accountant at each of 21 district hospitals (para. 58).
(h) A total of 6 medical assistants and 16 enrolled nurses would be
appointed to the 3 urban health centers once completed (para. 63).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
ti) A Health Education Review Committee would be established by September
1, 1987, to approve IEC messages prepared by non-MOH agencies
(para. 65).
(j) That investments outside the agreed 5 year investment program would be
undertaken only in agreement with IDA (para. 69).
(k) Appointment by October 1, 1987, of an architect and a procurement
officer whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA
(para. 70).
(1) Starting from FY88, annual implementation plans would be submitted to
IDA four months before the beginning of the Malawian financial year
(para. 70).
(m) By October 1, 1987, a Project Coordination Committee for both parts of
the project would be established (para. 70).
Cn) A mid-term review of project implementation would be carried out not
later than December 31, 1988 (para. 70).



IBRD 20099
MALAWI
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
)                                                 SO    Health Facility Lationi
c                                                    MovAI - J   # Nbl1w.DIstuih3)* e(
VA ?Upgrade Health Centers (6)
'1]ffff\<,-    -Ma  hiMwl 2- Districts (15)"
t)1 \    ...... ~ . ! .  New Health Cenlen (19)
all )    \,    0 -:D{,   Upgrade Health Cente  (6)
a     Dirict Capitals
( - RUWHl    4                      ~~~~~~~Dlitrlct toundores
V--:f.-n:                  --,hernstl a- R              nol Boundaries
RUMPHI                               -        InternailBoundaries
fefr to WA   in raped kw R of
Rrginsl Training O. ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ oe                               ou of theme Wtfwi. NWe folhoweh
lenl.    Ch -.        Last                              sIx daerksls are hbken s a p udr flw
Regona Health Trahing Cenler                        aaid_ _                                  pr t far the PKC prHasrn
Phirniorei,ticod Depot ~~~M~1MD~~-  "z~for *   -w nine  gUIVb any,
UpgrwadeDitrictin al -po                       -                               Llkswge. Chimmadruku, Rms yih
upgrade Diswicr Hospir                                                *           KcAasi, Mangadil. 7he olier nrb
WP  v        I         /             ~~~~~~~~~huchsd hree faken tptiW#r ADA
District Hotl                   _dALWI                                    azjlanmner te dew Mpfet, and
92~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r by77jp dx c Ihe Gnl in I| M.
ZAMBIA
;>.7 ~~~~~~~~~~~KRWES 0   M rc0s 0   OD eooM
I          .  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~~~~~
{.< - . - M    Ieawi                      e      i,
,::.~~-   Ma/a , --n  
pwrsocesJrDistrictf Hpit
Upgrade Destri actHosptl 
Ph naai        _: Depot    ,-                     '          ;
4ainmavrua10qxrt- *f           i   - l                               /0 
~*  Hospital Externou
Regional lfthh Trawng Center
Urban Health Center (2)
_     t vdOe Upbml\N;h                                             i
brim. mere. VHeohhCer (7)
aome.. si d a..rJ                                                                             I
,N w- *_                          MOZAMBIQUE
a,     di aI                                                           L;; Ue.
=s =t I. ttm.-ia.
SW  14"CVvff&%                          Regionlealth Training    r   - C --e
mmfifr wey                                                                               rG o
lASkSWbCr a atF 
IJ                                                                                __
Z A  ZANIA  IN PIAN ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ANAR  11



