Docmmknt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13508
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1768-MAI)
SEPTEMBER 8, 1994
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 26, 1987)
Currency Unit                      Malawi Kwacha (MK)
SDRI.00                   =        US$1.27
US$1.00                   =        MK2.00
(September 10, 1993)
US$1.00                   =        MK3.96
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1-March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDA              Community Development Assistants
CHW              Community Health Workers
CPHS             Controller for Preventive Health Services
CS               Child spacing
DCMO             Deputy Chief Medical Officer
DDC              District Development Committee
DPMT             Department of Personnel Management Training
EDF              Economic Development Fund
EEC              European Economic Community
EN               Enrolled Nurse
EP&D             Department of Economic Planning and Development
EPI              Expanded Program of Immunization
GOM              Government of Malawi
IDA              International Development Association
IEC              Information, Education, and Communication
KCH              Kamuzu Central Hospital
KFW              Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MA               Medical Assistant
MCH              Maternal and Child Health
MIM              Malawi Institute of Management
MOCS             Ministry of Community Services
MOH              Ministry of Health
MOWS             Ministry of Works and Supplies
MYP              Malawi Young Pioneers
NFWC             National Family Welfare Council
PHAM             Private Hospital Association of Malawi
PHC              Primary Health Care
PHN              Population Health and Nutrition
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
QECH             Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital
RHC              Rural Health Centers
TB               Tuberculosis
TBA              Traditional Birth Attendants
UNFPA            United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
VHC              Village Health Committee
WHO              World Health Organization
ZGH              Zomba General Hospital



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
September 8, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Malawi
Second Family Health Project (Credit 1768-MAL)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Malawi -Second Family Health Project (Credit
1768-MAL) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part I was prepared by the Borrower.
This project continued the efforts of the first to expand and strengthen the existing health
system, increased the availability of child spacing services, and strengthened the management
capabilities of the Ministry of Health. In addition, it supported design and implementation of a
multisectoral family health program through other government agencies. Most of these purposes
were achieved to some degree-sufficiently so to rate the project outcome as satisfactory, the benefits
as likely to be sustainable, and the institutional development impact as modest.
The PCR is of adequate quality. Part I is useful in giving more details and explanations for
some events.
An audit of this project, together with the first health project, is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official dutlies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatlon.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 1768-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ............. i-ii
PART I.          PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ....................... I
A.      Project Identity ...............................................  I
B.      Project Background  ............................................ 1. 
C.      Project Objectives and Description  ...........              ......................... 2
D.      Project Design and Organization  .          .................................... 3
E.      Project Implementation  . .......................................... 3
F.      Project Results ............................................... 6
G.   Project Sustainability ............................................. 6
H.      Bank Performance ..............................................  6
1.      Borrower Performance  . .......................................... 7
J.       Consulting Services  ............................................. 8
K.      Project Documentation and Data  .           .................................... 8
PART II          PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ................... 9
A.      Adequacy and Accuracy of Part III ...........                ......................... 9
B.      Comments on Analysis in Part I  .           .................................... 9
C.      Bank Performance  .............................................  12
D.   Performance of Borrower . ........................................ 12
E.      Effectiveness of Relationship between Bank and the Borrower .................. 14
F.       Performnance of Co-Financiers...............................                                    14
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION .15
A.       Related Bank Loans.....................................                                         15
B. Project Timetable .15
C.      Loan Disbursements.....................................                                          16
D.  Project Project Implementation.16
E.  Total Project Costs and Financing .18
F.  Statu Status of Loan Covenants.22
G. Use of Staff Resources .24
ANNEX 1:   Names of Officials Met during the PCR mission .                                                        26
ANNEX 2:  Project Implementation Summary ........... 28
ANNEX 3:  Rural Health Centers Completed ....... 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlc authorization.l






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 1768-MAI)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is for the Second Family Health Project in Malawi,
for which Credit 1768-MAI in the amount of SDR 8.7 million was approved on 24 March, 1987.
The Project closed as scheduled on 30 June, 1993. The last disbursement was on 19 November,
1993. There was an undisbursed balance of SDR 2,232.62, which was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division of the Southern
Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part 11).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, progress reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, the findings of a completion mission which visited Malawi during August and September
1993, and interviews with Government of Malawi officials.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1768-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The main objectives of the Project were to: (a) improve health status of families, particularly
of mothers and children, through expanding and strengthening existing health programs; (b) increase
availability and accessibility of child spacing (CS) services within the Ministry of Health (MOH)
maternal and child health (MCH) program; (c) strengthen MOH's capacity to plan, manage and
evaluate health services in the framework of a decentralized health system; and (d) design and
implement a multi-sectoral family health program through other government agencies. These
objectives were in line with the long term objectives of the Government of Malawi (GOM) in the
health and population sector and the 1986-95 National Health Plan, and were generally achieved
through: expanding primary health care (PHC) services; strengthening management, manpower and
support systems; integrating CS with MCH services; providing support to the functional literacy,
youth and information, education and communication (IEC) programs.
Imlnementation Experience
2.    The overall Project implementation was satisfactory. The Project continued the process of
institutional development, further developing the human resources and support systems initiated under
the first IDA health project and now continuing under the Population Health & Nutrition (PHN)
Sector Credit (Cr. 2220-MAI). Major problems experienced during implementation were related to
increases in construction costs, inadequate supervision of civil works, vacancies in the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), lack of a proper accounting system, and delays or non-compliance with
some conditionalities. Furthermore, planning in general, and manpower planning in particular,
remained weak during the life of the Project, thereby adversely affecting implementation. Difficulties
were experienced within and between the two parts of the Project because the coordinating
committees met less frequently than anticipated, and the overall coordinating committee never met.
Results
3.    The Project expanded PHC services, and integrated some CS activities with MCH services,
although the multisectoral portion of the Project appears to have continued in a linear fashion.
Quantifying Project impact is not possible because no baseline data was available to compare with; the
lack of clearly identified monitoring indicators in the Project documents also contribute to quantifying
difficulties. One of the positive results of the Project was the recognition that support for
decentralization would need to continue beyond the Project, and a number of activities continue to be
funded under the PHN Sector Credit. The most important results of the Project has been the
carrying forward of lessons into the implementation efforts of the ongoing Sector Credit.



ii
Sustainability
4.     The project is likely to be sustainable in the long-term since the physical facilities constructed
are a one-off investment and the GOM is conmmitted to providing manpower and other recurrent
costs, while decentralized planning and management are areas which GOM continues to work on in a
changing environment. GOM continues to be committed to the strengthened institutionis and the
expanded PHC activities, focussed on the rural population, who will, in the long-term, continue to
benefit from the physical facilities, improved coverage and greater access to MCH and CS services.
The sustainability of the planning capacity within MOH will continue to be determined by the
constrained decision making environment that persists in the Malawi civil service. It is therefore not
conceivable that MOH will be able to make and take decisions which impact on the long-term
sustainability of activities unless this climate changes. Implementation of the multisectoral program
under this Project experienced difficulties.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.     Unforeseen problems, such as the increase in costs of civil works and the shortage of funds
from parallel financiers were solved with a high degree of flexibility and continuous dialogue with the
Government. Although overall supervision was good, shortcomings related to poor accounting, weak
donor coordination, delays or non-compliance with some covenants and inadequate supervision of
civil works by GOM still occurred. Following are some of the lessons which should be considered
for future projects: (a) Government ownership is necessary; (b) uncertainties associated with parallel
financing should be recognized; (c) key positions need to be filled; (e) an effective monitoring system
is needed; (d) a project launch workshop should be held; (f) detailed documentation on project
implementation should be maintainied; and (g) mid-termli reviews should be undertaken.



PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1768-MAI)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name                Second Family Health Project
Credit Number                1768-MAI
RVP Unit             :      Africa Regional Office
Country              :      Malawi
Sector               :      Population and Human Resources
B.    Project Background
1.I    Sector Development Obiectives. At the time of the identification of the Second Family Health
Project, measles, malaria, acute respiratory infections, diarrhoea and malnutrition were the most
common causes of morbidity and mortality, and the infant mortality rate in Malawi was significantly
higher than in neighboring countries. The annual population growth rate was 3.2 percent and GOM
was aware of the negative consequenices of high population growth on socioeconomic development.
The long-tern objectives of GOM, in the health and population sector, were to decrease morbidity,
mortality, malnutritioni and fertility. The medium term objectives were to strengthen the capacity of
MOH in manpower development, planning, monitoring and evaluation, improve management of
health services, expand the health care delivery system, strengthen cost-effective programs, and
integrate CS in MCH services.
1.2    Policy Context. While the first Health Plan (1965-69) was devoted primarily to curative
services and development of nursing manpower, the 1973-88 Health Plan focused on development of
basic health services, control of communicable diseases, manpower development, construction of new
and rehabilitation of existing hospitals, expansion of MCH services, introduction of PHC on a pilot
basis, and reorganization of MOH. Implementation of the Plan was hampered by a lack of adequate
financial resources, scarcity of trained manpower and inexperienced health administrators.
1.3    Recognizing the limitations of the second Health Plan, in 1983 MOH prepared the 1986-95
Health Plan through IDA's First Family Health Project (Cr. 1351-MAI), with medium term goals of
achieving a drop in early childhood mortality of 33.3 percent over a 5 year period, achieving an
improvement in maternal health, and having an impact on the major causes of morbidity through the
PHC approach and/or core health services. Specific objectives were to improve: access to health
services, child survival and health status, and support to management of the health care delivery
system (by strengthening relevant programs); nutritional status of mothers and children: and
mechanisms for health manpower development and deployment. Due to budgetary cons, raints, cost
recovery and cost effectiveness, consolidation of existing services, and expansion of priority health
programs (which had low recurrent or manpower implications) were emphasized. Majo;r obstacles to
achieving these objectives were: access to health services, shortage of drug supplies, MOH's
management capability, over-centralization of the decision making process (with unclear roles at the
region and district levels), and poor financial planning, budgeting and manpower managemiient. The
need to address these problems was one of the bases for the Project.



2
C.    Proiect Objectives and Description
1.4    Project Objectives. The Project was an integral part of the first three years of the 1986-95
National Health Plan and a follow-up to the First Family Health Project. The main objectives were to
(a) improve health status of families, particularly mothers and children, through expanding and
strengthening existing health programs; (b) increase the availability and accessibility of CS services
within MOH's MCH program; (c) strengthen MOH's capacity to plan, manage and evaluate health
services in the framework of a decentralized health system; and (d) design and implement a
multisectoral family health program through other government agencies.
1.5    Proiect Components. The Project was composed of two parts, with Part A implemented by
MOH, and Part B implemented by various government agencies coordinated by the Department of
Economic Planning and Development (EP&D).
1.6    Part A included:
(a)    Expanding PHC from 9 to 15 districts through training; provision of equipment and
supplies for village health committees (VHCs); constructing, furnishing and equipping
17 new RHCs; upgrading 6 existing health sub-centers; and replacing I district
hospital.
(b)    Strengthening Management. Manpower and Support Systems through technical
assistance, workshops and training; providing MOH and major hospitals with
computers for budget management; replacement of an existing enrolled nurses school;
constructing, furnishing and equipping three regional level training facilities;
constructing pharmaceutical depots at eight district hospitals; equipping a quality
control laboratory; conducting a baseline survey, evaluation studies, and a study on
the potential of health insurance.
(c)    Family Health and MCH Program Support through technical assistance, training,
provision of vehicles, equipment and IEC materials; CS support through orientation of
health staff and training 900 service providers; construction of surgical contraception
units at 8 district hospitals, as well as 3 new urban health centers and replacement of
a family health unit in Lilongwe; and expansion of nutrition activities through
technical assistance, training, and developing IEC materials.
(d)    Proiect Manapement for Part A which included establishment of a PIU, salary support
for a project coordinator, technical advisor, clerk of works, procurement officer,
accountant and support staff, as well as provision of office equipment and supplies.
1.7    Part B included:
(a)    Functional Literacy, Nutrition and Women's Programs under MOCS, to introduce
family health topics into ongoing functional literacy and women's programs and
expand these programs to the Northern Region; construct, furnish and equip a
regional training center, produce IEC materials, support overseas and local training;
introduce nutrition activities in MOCS, train women's groups and community
development assistants, strengthen nutrition-related activities through growth
monitoring, nutrition education, and construction of fish ponds.



3
(b)    Youth Programs, under the Department of Youth, to introduce family health messages
aimed at young audiences through training, educational programs, equipment, and
IEC materials.
(c)    IEC to develop nationwide programs by the Information Department, through
overseas training, surveys, production of materials, and evaluation activities.
D.    Project Design and Organization
1.8    The Project derived its conceptual foundation from the first phase of the 1986-95 National
Health Plan, the First Family Health Project, and the World Bank Population Sector Review (Report
No. 5648, 1986). Following approval of this Plan, MOH prepared a comprehensive implementation
program for the period 1986-90, which was appraised by IDA in December 1985. It was agreed with
GOM that the US$24.9 million Project would be financed with: US$11 million from IDA, and
US$1.9 million from GOM; parallel financing of US$2.6 million by UNICEF, US$3.5 million by the
Economic Development Fund (EDF), US$4.1 million by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), and
US$0.9 million each by the Government of the Netherlands and UNFPA. The Project was identified
in June 1985, appraised in December 1985, negotiated in February 1987, approved by the Board on
March 24, 1987, and declared effective on June 15, 1987. Reasons for the lag between appraisal and
negotiations were attributed to the temporary unavailability of the task manager due to ill-health.
1.9    The Project continued the process of institutional development, further developing the human
resources and support systems initiated under the first IDA health project, introducing multisectoral
population activities, and supporting on-going activities implemented by MOH and other ministries.
According to the design of the Project, implementation of Part A was the responsibility of the
Principal Secretary (PS) of MOH. Coordination of activities under Part B was the responsibility of
EP&D. The PS of MOCS had overall responsibility for monitoring Part B. The Secretary for Youth
and Malawi Young Pioneers (MYP) was responsible for youth programs and the Chief Information
Officer was responsible for IEC. The PS of Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWS) was
responsible for the implementation of civil works, and the Planning Unit of MOH was responsible for
procurement of furniture, equipment and supplies, and for recruitment of consultants. The
coordinating committees for Part A and Part B were supposed to meet monthly. In addition, an
overall coordinating committee was expected to meet quarterly to review overall progress.
E.    Project Implementation
1.10  In general, Project implementation was good. The PIU, which became the coordinating unit
for the implementation of all donor-funded projects, promoted good interaction and rapport between
IDA and GOM, and developed mechanisms with enough flexibility to reorient the Project when the
need to change or exclude activities was identified. Staffing difficulties' in the PIU contributed to
some of the problems experienced in implementation. In addition, difficulties were experienced
within and between Parts A and B because the coordinating committees met less frequently than
expected, and the overall coordination committee never met. Greater detail on component
implementation is given in Annex 2.
The procurement officer was never appointed; the accountant position was vacant for two years; and the architect's
post was only filled for a total of 26 months.



4
1.11   PHC. The aim to expand PHC from 9 to 15 districts was generally achieved. Civil works
were completed, and the cost overruns experienced were the result of the general increase in
construction costs, and the increased cost required to enlarge the Mzimba District Hospital so that it
could fulfill its role. All of the upgraded RHCs were equipped; IDA provided the equipment when
UNICEF was unable to equip all of the RHCs as originally envisaged. While the upgraded RHCs are
operational, 3 of the 17 new RHCs are not operational, 3 do not have Medical Assistants and 12 are
experiencing water problems2 (see Annex 3). Regional and District PHC coordinators were
appointed as part of the decentralization process, and the PHC program was evaluated and a report
produced. A report on urban PHC was also produced and its proposals were considered in the
preparation of the PHN Sector Credit.
Management. Manpower, and Support Systeiins
1.12   Management. As part of the effort to improve management of health services, the
Complement and Grading Review Committee reviewed MOH's structure, staffing patterns,
department and unit functions, and career structures; developed job descriptions for various cadres:
and proposed a structure which would be more responsive to the needs of the health sector. The
report was approved, the new structure adopted, some key positions filled and some recommendations
were implemented in phases. Unfortunately, high staff turnover, study leaves and increased activities
to be covered have over-stretched the capacity of the newly created Planning Unit. As a result of
restructuring of MOH, the decentralization process was begun with the establishment of Regional
Health Teams to provide back-up and supervisory support to health activities in the region. In
addition, a plan to introduce cost reduction measures at MOH and the hospitals was developed. Lack
of additional personnel at the periphery and concern over loss of control by headquarters slowed
down the pace of decentralization. With regard to cost reduction measures, the committee established
to monitor implementation met irregularly and consequently only a portion of the activities were
undertaken.
1.13   Manpower. Implementation of this sub-component, to strengthen MOH capacity to train
enrolled nurses, establish in-service training and plan and analyze manpower issues, was partially
completed. The Zomba School of Nursing was completed, and a Manpower Development Unit was
created. Cost overruns precluded the building of the regional in-service training centers, and
manpower planning analysis was hampered by sketchy information on the number, type, physical
location and function of the various health cadres employed by MOH.
1.14   Support Systems. This sub-componient, to strengthen moilitoring and evaluation capacity at
MOH and improve efficiency in pharmaceuticals, was satisfactorily implemented. A number of
studies were carried out (see Part III Table 9), the pharmacy at KCH, as well as the pharmaceutical
depots and the planned support services at six district hospitals were completed.
1.15   Some of the partially implemented activities under this component (manpower development,
the study on health insurance and cost reduction measures), are included in the PHN Sector Credit
currently under implementation.
1.16   MCH. This sub-component was satisfactorily implemented, although not all activities were
carried out. Vehicles required for supervision and mobile services were purchased with savings under
the First Family Health Project; this enabled the purchase of an ambulance, as well as the
2   Water supply prohlems were due to lack of coordination with the Water Department of MOWS.



5
construction and furnishing of a new Paediatric Ward at KCH, originally to be funded by KfW. IEC
and training materials for MCH were produced, MCH Centers and antenatal clinics were supplied
with drugs. An MCH integrated services workshop was held, but the MCH manual for use by health
workers was not produced.
1.17   Child Spacing. The Project assisted in the expansion of CS services. In-country study tours
were organized to visit facilities where CS was successfully integrated with MCH services; UNFPA
sponsored a tour to observe management of community based distribution programs of contraceptives
and integration of CS activities. This led to the establishment of NFWC, and a committee in MOH to
plan and monitor progress in CS integration. Integration was slow due to a shortage of staff,3 and
the sensitive nature of CS.  Periodically logistics problems led to shortages of commodities, but the
availability of contraceptives improved with the assistance of UNFPA and USAID. The construction
of surgical contraceptive units in hospitals did not take place due to non-availability of parallel funds
from KfW. Financing problems precluded the building of the urban health units and this activity has
been shifted to the PHN Sector Credit currently under implementation.
1.18   Nutrition. This sub-component was carried out satisfactorily. The promotion of nutrition
education and growth monitoring at health clinics, the development and production of flip charts,
posters and booklets were undertaken as part of the UNICEF country program.
1.19   Functional Literacy, Nutrition and Women's Programs. Funding for this component, initially
expected to be provided by EDF and IDA, was provided solely by EDF, with the exception of
constructing and equipping of Mzuzu Regional Training Center. Studies on target food subsidies and
household food security were carried out under this component and were used as preparation for the
PHN Sector Credit. Introduction of CS in adult literacy programs was only partially achieved, due
to constraints referred to above, and the difficulty in implementing multisectorally when coordination
is weak.
1.20   Youth Programs. This component was mostly successfully implemented.  MYP A Family
Life Education Resource Book was produced. An information booklet on Youth Life Experiences,
flip charts, leaflets and posters on family health topics were developed in draft form. Six health
shelters were built, and one has been destroyed by wind. All of the sewing machines were delivered,
and used for training in income generation activities. Of the three fish ponds built, with technical
advice from the Fishery Department, only two are functional.
1.21   IEC. Implementation of this component was satisfactory. Under this component family
health messages were published in a free publication with an estimated audience of 80,000. Two
Information Department staff were sent overseas to be trained in graphics, audio visual and
communication techniques. Family health messages for billboards and match box labels, radio
programs and films on family health were produced after the content was reviewed by MOH.
Short-term technical assistance to revise training in CS, and the production of training amterials in order to reorient
and train health staff, TBAs and VHCs in CS and IEC did not take place.



6
F.     Project Results
1.22   On the whole, the Project expanded PHC services, and integrated some CS activities with
MCH services, all of which are more accessible than in the past. The multisectoral portion of the
Project appears to have continued in a linear fashion, as opposed to an integrated manner. Therefore.
it is only possible to say that most of the planned activities were carried out. It is not possible to
quantify the impact of the Project because no surveys were carried out before the start, or at the end.
of the Project. Difficulty in quantifying results can also be ascribed to the lack of clearly identified
monitoring indicators in the Project documents, lack of institutional memory, and reports which
appear to conflict with evidence in the field. One of the results of the Project was the recognition that
support for decentralization would need to continue beyond the Project, and, as a consequence, a
number of activities initiated under this Project continue to be funded under the PHN Sector Credit.
One of the most important results of the Project has been the carrying forward of lessons into the
implementation efforts of the ongoing Sector Credit.
G.    Project Sustainability
1.23   The Project is likely to be sustainable in the long-term since the physical facilities constructed
are a one-off investment and the GOM is committed to the provision of manpower and other recurrent
costs, while decentralized planning and management are areas which GOM continues to work on in a
changing environment. The Project strengthened institution building and expanded PHC activities to
the rural population, who will, in the long-term, continue to benefit from the physical facilities,
improved coverage and greater access to MCH and CS services. The sustainability of the planning
capacity within MOH will continue to be determined by the constrained decision making environment
that persists in the Malawi civil service. This has lead to uncertainty about their authority among
decision makers who become demoralized and leave. The current political climate does not create the
conducive conditions for a long-term, sustainable planning capability to be developed, retained and
fully utilized. It is therefore not conceivable that the Ministry will be able to make and take decisions
which impact on the long-term sustainability of activities unless this climate changes.4 As mentioned
above, implementation of the multisectoral program under this Project experienced difficulties, many
of them a result of the complexity of trying to get more than one ministry, each with different
reporting and performance evaluating structures, to work together. This made the multisectoral
program implementation unsustainable.
H.    Bank Perforrnance
1.24   There were 13 supervision missions with architects, public health specialists and economists
present in most missions. Notwithstanding the frequent turnover of Bank staff responsible for
supervision, Bank staff contributed to the success of the Project through supportive supervision and
technical advice. Flexibility in modifying Project activities and prompt actions, in consultation with
the GOM, helped solve some of the unforeseen problems, such as the increase in costs of civil works
and the shortage of funds from parallel financiers. Combined supervision of this Project and
preparation of the PHN Sector Credit helped link the two projects, and allowed the shifting ol
activities (i.e., management, decentralization and cost reduction measures) which were not cotnplcylj
under the Project. Overall supervision was good; dialogue with GOM and executing agencies 'Aas
The passage of a referendum establishing a multiparty system in Malawi. and the electionis held on May 17, 1994.
appear to have brought about an environment which should assist in fostering an atmosphere which could he conducive
to sustainability of activities which have client ownership.



7
constructive, and modifications were always fully discussed and agreed with the GOM. However,
some of the shortcomings include: (a) failure to strongly voice concerns relating to audits and
accounts so that the need for corrective action was taken seriously; (b) failure to ensure compliance
with covenants, or carry out a mid-term review to restructure if warranted; (c) inclusion of
unconfirmed financing in project design; and (d) supervision reports with differing formats made it
difficult to follow the implementation history of Project components. The Bank's culture, at the time
of the design and implementation of this Project, of placing more importance on lending rather than
implementation, as reflected in the design and supervision of this project, could have contributed to
the significance of the shortcomings noted.
1.25   Lessons learned. The lessons learned from the project can be divided into those in line with
the Wapenhans Report, standard practices and specific project-related lessons:
Wapenhans Report lessons: (a) Government ownership is necessary, as was the case with this
project, to ensure the commitment required to carry out and sustain the activities; (b)
realism is needed when reviewing implementation capacity during planning and when
supervising the project so as to avoid creating false expectations on either part; and (c)
key positions, necessary for implementation, have to be identified as early as possible
and filled at project start-up to avoid adversely affecting implementation.
Standard practices lessons: (a) a project launch workshop (which includes all line managers)
should be held in order to define responsibilities and bring managers on board; if line
managers are unclear about project objectives, and their role in achieving them, it will
be more difficult for them to be motivated to carry out activities; (b) more assistance
is needed to enhance Government's experience in procurement, disbursement,
accounting, monitoring and evaluation; (c) an effective monitoring system needs to be
put in place to ensure that potential problems are identified and solutions sought in a
timely manner to avoid delays in implementation (the system should be one which
both lender and borrower can use); (c) institutional memory (i.e., consistent,
standardized supervision reports, and detailed documentation on project
implementation) should be maintained to allow for follow-up of project
implementation; and (e) mid-term reviews should be undertaken to allow for
adjustment, if necessary.
Specific lessons: (a) project objectives and activities should be stated as clearly as possible to
enable monitoring and evaluation; (b) targets and monitorable indicators should be
clearly defined so that a determination can be made of the success or failure of the
activities undertaken; (c) coordination and interaction mechanisms between activities
of the donors need to be clearly defined during project preparation, as well as the
impact of possible non-availability of funds for key activities; and (d) a well defined
training plan is needed to ensure that no "temporary" vacancies exist and that training
is appropriate for the job to be performed.
I.     Borrower Performance
1.26   GOM should be commended for successfully completing the Project within the closing date.
Most of the covenants were complied with, and counterpart funds were adequate and timely. As
mentioned above, civil works were implemented in a timely manner; however, inadequacies relating
to civil works consisted of a roof at Zomba, and windows at KCH which leaked, and problems with
placement of buildings at Mzimba, as well as lack of water and staff at some of the RHCs rendering



8
them inoperational. The overall coordination committee never met and this adversely affected the
implementation of the multisectoral component of the Project. The accounting and audit reports were
not always timely or up to standard. Identification and appointment of PIU staff were delayed and
this affected the pace of implementation.
J.     Consulting Services
1.27   The anticipated technical assistance was utilized. The PIU utilized technical assistance in the
form of a Project Coordinator (foreign), a Technical Adviser (local), Project Accountant (local) and
two Project Architects (the first foreign and the second local). Civil works were implemented by
MOWS, and consultants were recruited by the PIU in MOH's Planning Unit. A Complement and
Grading Review Study was carried out, in lieu of a job analysis and development of training curricula
for national and district levels, under the Management, Manpower and Support Systems component;
this was carried out jointly with the Department of Personnel, Management and Training (DPMT).
As a follow-up, a training needs assessment was undertaken in collaboration with MIM. Technical
assistance for the project management of Part A, a long-term advisor for the pharmaceutical program
(WHO/The Netherlands), and a training advisor (EEC) for the functional literacy program were
funded by the Project. An urban PHC consultancy was completed in June 1989. Overall GOM was
satisfied with the work of the various consultants.
K.    Project Documentation and Data
1.28   As mentioned above, the lack of uniformity in Project supervision reports made tracking of
components more cumbersome than necessary. A lack of financial records, and the absence of a
central repository for records on GOM's side made it difficult to thoroughly review the accounts.
During the life of the Project only eight out of 24 progress reports were forwarded to IDA. The
records kept by parallel financiers were not in a format which coincided with IDA categories,
resulting in an inability to separate costs for different categories, or designate between local and
foreign expenditures.



9
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Adequacy and Accuracy of Part III
2. 1   The information presented in Part III covers the major aspects of project implementation and
is adequate for the purposes of the report.
2.2    The report reflects the position of project activities at time of project completion and is
generally accurate.
B.    Comments on Analysis in Part 1
Part 1 - A to D: The Project
2.3    The information on project background, objectives, project design and organization is
descriptive. However, it may be noted that although the MOH Project Monitoring Commnittee did not
meet monthly, it held regular meetings, considered issues regarding project programs and was very
useful in ensuring expeditious implementation of activities.
2.4    While it is correct that the overall coordinating committee under EP&D never met, it may be
noted that this, at least partly, was due to its coordinating role on population and related issues not
being firmly established at the time. However, after the institution of the Population Advisory
Committee, a sub-committee on IEC functioned at EP&D and helped in the coordination of Part B
activities of the project.
2.5   In retrospect, it should be stated that activities under Part B of the project related to IEC
through organizations outside MOH, were aimed at promotion of child spacing and could have been
coordinated by MOH. The IEC strategy in the PHN Sector Project has reverted to the strengthening
of the MOH IEC Unit and its coordinating role.
Part 1 - E: Project Implementation
2.6    Unavailability of funds was the reason for major variations between planned activities and
actual outputs. In areas such as manpower development, changes in planned activities were agreed
upon due to changes in priorities. For example, it was decided that rather than proceeding on the
consultancy on development of unit and job descriptions, the Ministry would proceed with the
complement and grading study in collaboration with DPMT. This study was designed to review the
MOH establishment in regard to numbers of personnel, their grades and staffing patterns; career
structures of all cadres and to propose functions for its departments and units including job
descriptions. The scope of the study was thus broader and later programs of manpower development
and management improvement were considerably influenced by the recommendations of the review
which received Government approval.
2.7    The activities were, therefore, modified taking into consideration linkages with related
activities and their possible impact. Although, such changes may appear to delay the achievement of
agreed objectives, steady progress has been made in the correct directions. The incorporation of
these activities in the PHN Sector Project ensures attention to their further development.



10
2.8    A fully staffed PIU may have helped overcome some of the operational problems experienced
in project implementation. Two specific areas were financial management and supervision of field
activities.
2.9    The supply of water to health centers has presented problems. MOW at the commencement
of the project provided the Water Department with information on health center sites and requested
location and construction of boreholes. However, this work was delayed in some cases and
construction work was allowed to proceed. This has in some instances caused serious problems.
MOW having recognized the problem has issued instructions to all Ministries in March 1993 that
prior to commencement of any construction project, a water supply feasibility report, reviewing the
likelihood of acceptable water supply, likely source and practical methods of delivery should be
obtained from the Controller of Water Services in addition to other information. This requirement
should help to eliminate problems experienced at health centers under the project.
2.10   It should also be noted that the accelerated manpower training programs under the PHN
Sector Project would ensure the a-ailability of MAs and ENMs at health centers constructed under the
project. In fact, the LSHS will graduate 63 MAs in November and CHAM5 14, making a total of 77
MAs. Although the expanded training program at ZSN has not commenced due to delay in
rehabilitation of buildings, the output of ENMs from CHAM Schools of Nursing should help in
overcoming the shortage of trained nurses.
2.11   In the implementation of the child spacing component, issues relating to work on needs
assessment, logistics and availability of contraceptives was supported by other donors especially US
AID. The multisectoral IEC program in support of child spacing was not fully effective and this
experience has led to focus of activities under the PHN Sector and PHICS' projects to strengthening
the MOH IEC Unit at central, regional, district and community levels.
2.12   The revised organization structure of MOH was implemented in 1987. The Complement and
Grading Study reviewed the MOH structure and recommended several improvements designed to
strengthen its effectiveness. The upgrading of the Planning Unit to the status of a Division under the
Controller of Planning was recommended in this study. The Planning Division has not benefitted
from this as critical posts have remained vacant. This matter is receiving urgent consideration.
Part 1 - F: Project Results
2.13   The expansion of PHC activities from 9 to 15 districts involved not only civil works in the
construction and upgrading of rural health facilities, but importantly the training of VHCs, TBAs and
health staff. It is noted that regional and district PHC Coordinators were appointed. The Malawi
concept of PHC emphasized its multisectoral nature and all personnel in health and health related
agencies were oriented in PHC, in addition to the DDCs.
2.14  In the area of management, the project initiated the process of decentralization with the
establishment of regional teams and the assignment of accounting personnel to regions, major
Christian Hospital Associaiion of Malawi. previously known as Private lIospital Association of Malawi, INB. Footnote
added by IDA 1
USAID-funded project. INB. Footnote added by IDA.]



11
institutions and district hospitals. The Complement and Grading Review and the later work by MIM
have helped strengthen the process which will be continued under the Sector Project.
2.15   Results achieved in the implementation of cost reduction measures were not adequate. The
program was based on recommendations of several studies carried out by the Planning Unit during
1985-86. The major problem in the implementation of the proposed measures was the pre-occupation
of hospital managements in day to day administration. This did not permit the hospital teams to focus
on issues and plan programs to achieve results. Some improvements were effected in transport
systems at the major hospitals; the boiler system at QECH and the laundry at KCH. This program is
continued under the PHN project and needs renewed commitment for its successful implementation.
2.16   In manpower development, the activities initiated under the project with the appointment of
the Training Officer for the improvement of MOH capability to undertake manpower planning and
analysis was further strengthened with the establishment of the Manpower Development Unit (MDU)
with USAID assistance. The MDU initially experienced staffing problems but these have been
overcome and the unit is fully functional. Manpower data for the preparation of a Manpower
Development Plan were collected and the draft plan is to be completed by December this year.
Activities of the MDU are further supported under the PHN Sector Project including the
establishment of a Personnel Information System (PIS) scheduled to be fully operational by
September, 1994.
2.17   Project activities in family health, benefitted from several donor inputs within the project and
outside. Overall considerable improvements have been recorded in MCH activities including CS as
evidenced by the results of the DHS. Recent initiatives of Government in the preparation of the
population strategy and the establishment of the NFWC are important steps in meeting the
development challenges confronting the country.
2.18   Problems experienced in the determination of specifications of the boats required for lake-
shore MCH services delayed their purchase. With increased costs of construction and other
constraints, this delay resulted in its abandonment. However, the boats are needed for lake-shore
services and efforts are being made to identify funding for this purchase.
Part 1 - G: Proiect Sustainabilitv
2.19  Issues in regard to manpower, water supply, housing and supplies including drugs are
receiving priority attention. The RHCs are expected to be fully operational by December, 1993. The
continuing support for several after critical programs under the PHN Sector Project would ensure
increasing attention to the attainment of objectives of these programs.
2.20   MOH is aware of the need for increased availability of drugs at health facilities. The
initiatives in regard to rationalization of services among major service providers and improved
efficiencies in service utilization should assist in overcoming some of the present problems. The
emphasis placed on rational use of drugs and improvements to the pharmaceutical supply and
distribution system should contribute to these efforts.



12
Part 1 - K: Project Documentation and Data
2.21   Some of the problems relating to lack of documentation arise from the implementation of
parts of the project funded by different donors as separate programs not always concurrently with
other programs. Several units were, therefore, involved in implementation and collection of data was
difficult. To this was added the problems of the post of Project Accountant being vacant for a long
period.
C.    Bank Performance
2.22   The Bank played a positive role during the evolution and implementation of the project. The
close relationship established during the implementation of the First Family Health Project which
culminated in the formulation of the National Health Plan 1986-1995, was further strengthened in the
development of this project.
2.23   Some items listed under Part I as lessons learnt from the experience of implementation of the
project have in fact been incorporated into PHN Sector Project activities.
2.24   From the GOM perspective, lessons learnt from Bank performance include the following:
(a)    Firm commitments need to be secured from co-financiers or parallel financiers of
project components by their increased involvement in project preparation and appraisal
and other appropriate means;
(b)    Increased attention by GOM to development of design briefs for infrastructule
development through wide consultations should be encouraged;
(c)    Infrastructure development should be balanced adequately with other resource
requirements in project formulation;
(d)    Increased attention should be given to provision of specialist advice in such areas as
procurement and project accounting where such needs are established with borrowers.
D.    Performance of Borrower
2.25   On the whole, the project was implemented a schedule and results achieved are significant.
The main factors that contributed to this satisfactory performance are given below:
(a)    The positive approach of the Bank in supporting project programs and constructive
advice of supervision missions on the project;
(b)    The Project Coordinating Committee under the chairmanship of the PS was able to
create adequate interest and understanding of project activities among heads of
divisions and units in the MOH and to generate a reasonable degree of enthusiasm in
project implementation.
(c)    Close consultation with MOW helped ensure expeditious completion of the civil works
program of the project.



13
(d)    Regular interactions with Program Managers by the PIU helped in the follow-up of
individual programs especially during the initial period of project implementation.
(e)    The establishment of the PIU within the Planning Division with specific responsibility
for the civil works, procurement and disbursement aspects of the project and its role
in actively supporting heads of divisions/units and Program Managers in the
implementation of individuals project programs helped accelerate pace of project
implementation.
2.26   As previously noted, several problems were experienced during project implementation.
These could be presented as lessons learnt during project implementation which would be useful in
current and future projects. These include the following:
(a)    Successful operation of coordinating mechanismiis is essential in the implementation of
projects with several components;
(b)    Responsibility for the implementation of programs should be vested with specific
officers who should be given the resources and support to carry out project activities;
(c)    Care should be taken to ensure that project programs are integrated to the greatest
extent possible with relevant national programs;
(d)    Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is a useful mechanism for project implementation.
Its principal mandate in addition to the specialist functions, should be to support
programs managers in the implementation of project programs and in the enhancement
of the overall implementation capacity of the Ministry;
(e)    Delays in appointments to key positions in the organization have serious effects on
project implementation and should be avoided;
(f)    MOH should devote increased attention to development of briefs for physical facilities
in order to avoid problems during project implementation;
(g)    In project formulationi adequate attention should be given to availability of relevant
resources such as manpower;
(h)    Attention should be given to improved coordination in ensuring availability of water
supply to health facilities in the rural sector;
(i)    The standard lists of equipment and furniture for district hospitals and rural health
centers should be revised taking into consideration current needs and advances in
technology;
(j)    The design of borehole water supply systems at RHCs should be reviewed in
consultation with MOW and the Water Department in regard to water supply needs,
specifications of equipment and methods of delivery as adequate supplies are not
assured under existing schemes;
(k)    The financial management aspects of project implementation should be improved;



14
(I)    Increased attention should be given to field supervision of construction work by the
PIU.
E.    Effectiveness of Relationship between Bank and the Borrower
2.27   The mutual understanding and appreciation of problems that developed between the MOH and
the Bank during project development and the first years of its implementation helped overcome the
major problems of project implementation and enabled effective use of project resources. Supervision
missions provided opportunity for exhaustive and in depth review of project activities which provided
constructive guidance. Although there were several changes of Task Manager for the project, these
changes did not disturb the Bank GOM relationship and the pace of project implementation was
maintained.
2.28   Preparations for the PHN Sector Project commenced during the last years of this project.
This provided the opportunity to review project programs and to understand the major constraints
within which project programs have to be implemented. Several activities not completed due to
changing needs and priorities and difficulties in respect of particular activities would benefit from the
implementation experiences of this project.
F.    Performance of CoFinanciers
2.29   As noted elsewhere, problems were experienced in financing of project activities. Some,
especially the programs of international agencies such as UNICEF and UNFPA commenced prior to
the approval of the IDA credit and were continued thereafter. Others such as the EC components
were approved later with changes in the content of some programs. Some of the anticipated funds
were not available at all.
2.30   As a result of the above, difficulties were experienced in project implementation and some of
the anticipated benefits may have been affected. The activities in PHC may be a good example which
could have benefitted more from cumulative effects of all activities such as community orientations,
training, provision of supplies, transport and health facilities had these been implemented as a
package. In spite of such problems, the project activities have made a significant impact on the health
status of the population.
2.31   The several co-financiers of the project have different modalities of project implementation.
This gave rise to specific problems of coordination and record keeping. As previously noted, firm
arrangements in regard to financing of project programs and methods of implementation during
project preparation would help to minimize such problems.



15
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
3.1    The Project followed on the First Family Health Project which was approved on April 21,
1983 and closed on December 31, 1988. Although the first project was extended three times, some
components were still not fully operational by project completion. The first Project provided for
training, renovation and upgrading of facilities, strengthening of support services for PHC, studies
and technical assistance. It also improved the access and the quality of PHC facilities, expanded
training and introduced CS services, and enabled the production of the 1986-95 National Health Plan
that formed one of the bases of this Project.
B.    Project Timetable
TABLE 1: PLANNED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIME TABLE
STEP              PLANNED DATE    |   ACTUAL DATES
Identification               6/22-29/8S              6/22-29/85
Preparation                  9/19-30/85              9/19-30/85
Appraisal                       1/86                 12/2-20/85
Post Appraisal                6/9-17/86              6/9-17/86
Negotiations                    9/86                  2/2-6/87
Board Approval                 11/86                  3/24/87
Signing Date                   5/7/87                 5/7/87
Credit Effectiveness          6/15/87                 6/15/87
Completion Date               12/31/93                12/31/93
Closing Date                  6/30/93                 6/30/93
3.2    Comments on timetable. Because of the complexity of the Project, the number of parallel
financiers involved, and the absence of a firm financial plan, a post-appraisal mission was needed.
This permitted the firming up of donors' financing plans, and gave GOM more time to undertake
several activities to ensure a prompt and smooth start of the Project. However, KfW decided not to
fund those activities which they had initially expressed an interest in. While most of the project's
components were completed and the project closed on time, a number of activities were shifted to the
PHN Sector Credit.



16
C.       Loan Disbursements
TABLE 2: CUMULATIVE AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT (US$ MILLION)
BANK FY            1988        1989        1990        1991        1992        1993
Cumulative
estimate at
appraisal              0.66        2 97        6 05        8.69        10.45      11.02
Estimate as '7 ot
the loan                I1          27          55          79          95         1()
Cumulative actual      1.528       5.053       7 577      10.315      I 1.104     1 1.595
Actual as % ot- thel
loan                    13          44          65          89          96        1)
3.3          Comments on Loan Disbursement. The projected schedule of disbursement was realistic
and well planned, as indicated by the high disbursement level (only SDR 2,232.62 was cancelled).
The difference between the planned and actual disbursement is a result of currency fluctuations.
D.           Proiect ImDlementation
TABLE 3: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES
OF CIVIL WORKS COMPONENTS
PLANNED                                               MIONTHS
COMPONENT              COMPLETION    ACTUAL COMPLETION                             OF
DELAY
(PHC)
19 New and 6 upgraded    7 RliCs in 1987.   Construction completed heixeen              12
RHCs, all provided withl   9 in 1988 and 9     1989 and 1990. IDA funded 17
water; 3 staff houses tor   in 1989         |new II'DI tunded 2) and all
each new and I tor each                       upgrades. 3 RIlCs are still
renovated RHC.                                closed due to lack of water
and/or stalf and many have ,kater
problems.
Hospital at Mzimba with   July, 1990          August. 1992                              25
20 staff houses.
School for enrolled       November. 1989    Novemher. 1989                              0
nurses and hostel at
Zomba.
Three Regional Training    Not Applicable     Deleted due to increase in          Not applicable
Centers                                       construction costs



17
PLANNED                                  MONTHS
CONIPONENT       CONIPLETION      ACTUAL COMPLETION             OF
DELAY
(Management.
Manpower &
Support System)
Pharmaceutical      Not given.     3 districts hospitals       Unknown
depots at 8 district               provided with depots in
hospitals.                          1988 and 3 district
hospitals provided with
depots in 1990. 1 pharmacy
completed at KCH in 1990.
(Family Health)
Regional Rural      Not given      The center at Mzuzu was     Unknown
Training Center at                 completed in June 1989.
Mzuzu.                             The fish ponds were not
150 Fish ponds.                    implemented.
7 fish ponds and 10   Not given    3 fish ponds and 6 health   Unknown
shelters attached to               shelters were completed
dispensaries.
Surgical            Not given      Deleted due to              Not
contraceptive units                unavailability of funds from   applicable
at 7 district                      KFW.
hospitals; I urban
family health unit in
Lilongwe; 3 new
health centers and
upgrading two
existing ones in
Blantyre and        Not given
Lilongwe                           Completed in January 1990   Not
applicable
Paediatric Ward at
KCH, Lilongwe
3.4    Comments on Proiect Implementation. Although construction was generally completed on
time, the three regional training centers were not constructed, and design problems were experienced
at some facilities which required corrective interventions. At Mzimba Hospital the water pressure
was insufficient, the pharmacy was too small, the number of examining rooms for outpatients were
too few, the mortuary had to be relocated, and the TB and psychiatric patients are still located in the
old hospital due to a shortage of appropriate space. The windows at the paediatric ward of KCH
were poorly designed causing problems during the rainy season, and the Zomba School of Nursing
had a leaky roof.



18
E.   TOTAL PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING (including contingencies)
TABLE 4: TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (US$ '000)
APPRAISAL                                ACTUAL
CATEGORY
LOCAL   I FOREIGN          TOTAL       LOCA  [FOREIGN  |  TOTAL
Civil works               6,752.5      4,780.4      11,532.9    N.A.        N.A.          14,971.7
Furniture, materials,
equipment, and
vehicles.                 1,703.8      4,974.6      6,678.4    N.A.         N.A.           4,833.4
Technical assistance,                                           N.A.        N.A.           5,338.2
design fees,
monitoring,
research, evaluation.     4,866.0       1,863.7     6,729.7
activities, training
(including overseas)
and salaries.
TOTAL                    13,322.3      11,618.7    24,941.0    N.A.         NA.         25,143.3*
N.A. = Not Available
* Does not include the training costs supported by UNICEF: EEC contribution in ECU was transformed
into USS applying the exchange rate of August 1993.
TABLE 5: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION)
|          SOURCE              !  PLANNED   [             ACTUAL
IDA                                      11.0                        11.6
UNICEF                                    2.6                         1.8
EDF                                       3.5                         6.3
|KfW                                      4.1                           0
Government of the Netherlands             0.9                          1.7
UNFPA                                     0.9                         1.9
Government of Malawi                        1.9                        1.8|
TOTAL                                    24.9                        25.1



19
3.5       Comments on Project Financing. Several changes in the original financing plan took
place during the first two years of project implementation. KfW decided not to participate in the
Project, and those costs (salaries of staff, vehicle operating and maintenance costs) were picked up by
IDA. After the EEC appraisal, several activities to be financed by EDF were modified: (a) some
RHCs and housing units, to be financed by EDF, were financed by IDA; (b) the EDF credit included
provision for the New Mulanje District Hospital; and (c) the functional literacy component, which
was originally to be financed jointly by IDA and EDF, was funded totally by EDF, with the exception
of the Mzuzu Regional Training Center. This allowed the release of US$1.3 million of IDA funds
for other activities. Vehicles were purchased utilizing savings under Credit 1351-MAI, and the
amount saved was utilized for the construction and furnishing of the Paediatric Ward at KCH.
Provision for drug production decreased from US$1.6 to 0.9 million, and provision for project
management was reduced from US$1.6 to 0.7 million. At project closing GOM's contribution was
1.8 million equivalent.
TABLE 6: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS (US $'000)
CATEGORY            ORIGINAL                 ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
ALLOCATION
Local              Foreign          Total
Civil works                    6,152.4         3,882.8         4,447.1         8,329.9
Furniture, material,
equipment and vehicles         2,562.6            69.1         1,936.5         2,005.6
Technical Assistance, design
fees, monitoring, research,
evaluation, activities and
training (including overseas).  2,305.7          155.1         1,104.4         1,259.5
TOTAL                          11,020.7        4,107.0         7,488.0        11,595.0
3.6       Comments on Proiect Costs. Civil works increased to US$8.3 million, due to a general
increase in construction costs, and an increase in the size of Mzimba Hospital. The Paediatric Ward
at KCH, which KfW was supposed to fund, was financed by IDA using savings made available by
required vehicles being purchased under the first IDA health project. The absence of a monitoring
system of expenses did not allow forecasting of cost overruns. This increase was met through
reallocating from Category 2 (vehicles, equipment) and unallocated funds.



20
TABLE 7: DIRECT BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
COMPONENT                ESTIMATED AT                    BENEFITS AT               EXPECTED BENEFITS
APPRAISAI                   CLOSING DATE                      AT FULL
DEVELOPMENT
Management,           Continue (he inlstitutioIn      There is a llet  MOII         Better planninlg and
Manpower and          huilding initiated by the      structure,                     managemietn ot ofhealth
Support Systems       First Famils llealth           The neu enirolled nurses       se  ices. Better staftinlg
Project.                      school. completed in           le els  Imlproved quality
Better planninig and           Zomba, should increase        of sers ices, cost-effective
maniagement ot the h ealth    manpower outputs.              use ol scarce resources.
services. Better              Regional llealth Teams         I)ecrease morbidity and
Loordiinationi and            have beenl establi shed        mortality
impiplcmenltatioul ot licalth  D)ecentralization ot tfinance
programs. More rational       and accouniting has been
use of manpower.               introduced. The
I)ecentralization of'         plharmaceutical systemn has
accountinig and effective      been strenigthened.
drug distribution system.
Expand PHC from       Replacement of' I existinig    Holspital is operational All   B3etter access to healti
9 to 15 districts     district hospital,             RIICs have been                services in rural areas.
construction of 19 new        completed, some are fully
RHCs and upgrading ot 6       staffed and have water.
health sub-centers;
provision of equipnietlt aiid
supplies tfor VIICs.
Expand family'        Provision of transport to      Imnproved supervision and      Increased coverage of
health activities     MCII services; training;       mohile services.               antenlatal and delivery
expansion of CS;               Availability ol               care.
continuation of nutrition      contraceptives has             Eetter access to CS,
activities; production of      implroved                     inlcreIase in coIltraceptive
IE-C materials,                                              coverage anid decrease in
tertility' rates.
D)ecrcase inl maternial and
inifant mortality.
Improvement in
nutritional status tirough
prolonged birth interval.
Functional            Family health introduced       'the Regional Trainlinig       B3etter health through
literacy;             through functional literacy    Ceinter in the Northerin       improved awareness and
Youth Program;        and youth programs             Region was built. The          health practices.
and [EC.                                             traininig curriculum and tht
traininlg work plan in
functional literacy waS
developed.
IEC materials produced.



21
TABLE 8: PROJECT STUDIES
PURPOSE          l                                 A
FIELD OF STUDY             AS DEFINED                   STATUS              INPACT OF STUDY
AT APPRAISA1I,l
Baseline healthl status  Support MO}l's effoits   Baseline survey combined    Monitoring and
and utilization study in    to strengtlheni its   withi a study on health    evaluation capacity
xear I: tfollovX -up in  moniitorinig and        indicators for Health for   strengthened.
year 3.                  evaluationi capability.  All bv the Year 2000
completed February 1989;
no other study undertaken.
PIIC evaluation completed
Surveys and evaluation                            and report issued June
studies of specific                               1987; EPI evaluation
programs (e.g. PIIC.                              completed August 1988
EPI, Tuberculosis (TB1)                           and report issued
control of diarrhoeal                             September 1989: TB
diseases, malaria                                 prevalence survey was not
onchocerciasis. )                                 done; malaria and
diarrhoeal diseases control
programs evaluation
completed June 1989:
Onchocerciasis Control
Program reviewed April
1989.
Targeted tood subsidies                           Conducted in 1991.
study and evaluation of
area-based househlold
food security projects.
E'valuation otf cost     Assess the feasibility   Not done                   Not applicable
reduction measures       and advantage ot cost
implemenlted bs MOH.    reductioni measures.
Study of impact ot tees
on tac ility utilization
and potential otf hIealtli
inisurance.
Complemenit and          Improve structure,       Completed October 1988;    Reorganization of MOH
Grading Study            organization and        recommendations of the      under implementation,
managenmenit of MOII    study were accepted and     new organization chart
are being implemented.     adopted, development
of job descriptions and
unit functions done.
Training needs           Not detined.             Study completed April      Training needs are still
assessment, includinig                            1991.                      under evaluation due to
the developmelit of a                                                        ongoing discussions
model training program                                                       related to
for regional and district                                                    decentralization.
health teams.



22
F.           STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
TABLE 9: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
CREDIT          |                   COVENANT                                  STATUS
AGREEMENT          l                                                   l       _l
Section 3.01 (a)         The borrower to execute the project with efficiency    In compliance
and in conformity with accepted procedures and
ensure resources availability.
Section 4.01 (a)         The borrower to maintain financial records and     Absence of accountant
accounts, in accordance with sound accounting      made it difficult to
practices.                                         maintain proper records.
Section 4.01 (b)         Ensure, for each fiscal year, auditing of project  Audit reports were not
accounts, including those for the Special Account.  always timely or up to
Provide audit reports to IDA, not later than 6     standard.
months after the end of each fiscal year.
Furnish to IDA any other accounting information as
requested.
Section 4.01 (c)         The Borrower to mainitain records and account of
expenditures; retain all records of expenditures for
at least one year after the completion of the audit;
enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; ensure that such records and accounts
are included in the annual audit.
Schedule 4, para I       Establish Project Coordination Committee at EP&D   The Coordination
for Parts A and B not later than October 1, 1987.  Committee never met.
Carry out mid-term review not later than December    Mid-term review not
31, 1988.                                          done.
Submit annual implementation plans tour months     The annual
before the beginning of the Borrower's fiscal year.    implementation plans were
not submitted.
Schedule 4. para 2       MOH to appoint a hill time project coordinator for    In compliance.
Part A.
Schedule 4. para 3       Establish withiii MOH a coordinating committee for    At most, MOH
Part A to meet once a month.                       coordinating committee
met quarterly.
Schedule 4, para 4 (a)    MOH to appoint a clerk of works by October 1,     An architect was
and (b)                  1987 and a procurement officer by October 1, 1988.   appointed in place of a
clerk of works. The
procurement officer was
not appointed.
Schedule 4, para 5       MOH to ensure supervision of project components    In compliance.
by designated officials.



23
CREDIT                               COVENANT                                  STATUS
AGREEMENT
Schedule 4, para 6       MOH to conduct the following studies and submit
the results to IDA for review and comments:
(a) a mid-term evaluation of the PHC Program by     (a) A PHC review was
December 31, 1988;                              conducted in June 1987.
(b) annual plan assessment and review workshops;    (b) Only carried out in
1988
(c) a study on the impact of the revised fee        (c) Not done.
schedules on the utilization of services and on
the potential for health insurance by December
31, 1987;
(d) Substituted with a
(d) a baseline health status and utilization survey by    survey of indicators on
December 31, 1987;                              Health For All By The
Year 2000, completed in
February 1989.
(e) One study done.
(e) annual impact studies of various programs;
(f) In compliance.
(f) a special evaluation of the EPI program by
September 30, 1989;
(g) Not done.
(g) a TB prevalence survey by December 31, 1989.
Schedule 4, para 7       The Borrower to ensure staffing of the new or        9 RHCs have staff, but
upgraded RHCs with at least one medical assistant   not the requisite I medical
and two enrolled nurses per facility.               assistant and 2 enrolled
nurses, and 3 have neither
category of staff.
Schedule 4, para 8 (a);    The borrower to submit to IDA a revised           In compliance.
and (b)                  organization chart for MOH by September 1, 1987
and formally adopt it by October 1, 1987;
establish and make appointments to the positions of
Controllers for Clinical Services, Family Health
Services, Community Health Services and Health
Technical Support, three regional health officers and
three regional nursing officers by October 1, 1987.
Schedule 4, para 9 (a)    The Borrower to establish within MOH a committee    The committee was
with Deputy Secretary of MOH as chairman and        formed but met
representatives of Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital    irregularly.
(QECH), KCH and Zomba General Hospital (ZGH),
to monitor the implementation of cost reduction
measures, before July 31, 1987
Schedule 4, para 9 (b)    Establish positions of expenditure control accountant   Accountants in post.
at MOH, three regional accountants and one
accountant at each of the three major hospitals
before October 1, 1987.
Schedule 4, para 9 (c)    Establish a position of assistant accountant at each of   Posts established.
the 21 district hospitals before August 31, 1988.



24
CREDIT                                  COVENANT                                       STATUS
AG REEMENT
Schledule 4 para 9 <dl)   Implement cost reduction measures at N(I)I anrd            Soime niiasures
QEICFI hy Decembber 31. 1987.                            inIplcIllented
Schedule 4. para 9 (el      Suhmit to IDA an evaluationi ot cost reducti(ni          Not dotie.
measures iiplciplemited by N1OII by NMarch 31  1988.
Scledule 4. para 9 (1)      I)ecentralize tifianice and accounitinig functions of the    Fuiictionii deceitiralizei.
thirce miajor hospitals helore April 3), 1988.
Schedule 4. para 9 (Ig      Implemieint cost reduction nicasures at KCII atid        siilie measures
ZGII by April 3(, 1988                                   implemented.
Schtedule 4. para 9 (hb     Im pleme1cnt cost reductioi n easures at all district    Not itIplemenint.
hospitals by l)ecember 31. 1988.
Schedule 4, para 10 (a)    Appoinit a traitiing otticer to coordinate in-service     Offlice  appoilntedl
trai imug programs in MNI(I helore Septembiher 1         NlanipoAer l)eDelopntemit
1987.                                                    t.nit created.
Schedule 4. para 1() (b)    Suhblit to IDA betore December 31. 1987 in scrs ice    Not imipleiciieted.
traininig programi tfor the following fiical Ncar and
annually thereafter.
Schedule 4. para 11         Appoint 6 cliitical otticers and 16 etnrolled nurses to    Activity cancelled.
urban Cilinics after their comilpletioni.
Schedule 4. para 12         N1OCS to be responsible tor ttmomtitorilng                II coitipliance
iniipleititietationi of actisities of Part 3.
Schledule 4. para 13        B tahlish. the lIcalth. Itiloriiatioti, Education anid    Not doone.
Comimiuniicationi Colitiiittee  by Sept itihcr 1I 1987.
G.            USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
TABLE 10: STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE (In staff weeks)
.STAGE OF                                         ACTUAL    ACTlUAL    AC TlUtAI  |
PROJECT             Pt.ANNEI)    REV ISEI)          IIQ        FIEI.I)      TOTA( I.
Through appraisal           N. A.          N. A.          88.7         12.6          1()1.3
Appraisal to board          N. A           N. A.          15.6        22 8            3 8.4
Board to                    N A.           N. A.         N. A.        N A        N.A.
eftectiven'ess
Supervision                 57.8           83.6-         50.2         27.6            77.8
N.A    Not A%ailable
From  FY 89 onAards



25
TABLE 11: MISSION DATA BY STAGE OF PROJECT
MISSION        TIME      PARTICIPANT        STAFF
S                  WEEKS
I                             PERFORMANCE STATUS 2/
Identification |  6/85    2 (Ph. E)                2.3
Preparation        8/85    6 (Phi Pop, F.          10.3
IEC, Arc,
Denmo)
Appraisal         12/85    6 (2 Ph, E, Arc.         15
IEC, Res)
Post Appraisal     6/86    5 (Ph, Arc. IEC.        3.2
E, Res)
Implemenitatiol   11/86    3 (IEC. Arc, E)           3
Mission
Launch            4/87    2 (Arc. E)                1.6
G          P          M           F
Spi1 1            11/87    3 (E. Ph. Arc)          2.1       1          2           2          nr
Spn 2              3188    3 (E', Ph, Arc)          1.8      2          2           1          nr
Spn 3             10/88    3 (E. Ph, Impl)         2.1       2          2           1          nr
Spn 4              3/89    3 (E, Ph. Arc)          2.8       1           1          1          1
Spio 5            10/89    2 (Plh, Arc)             1.1      I           1          2          1
Spn 6              3/90    2(Ph, E)                  2       1           1          1          1
Spoi 7             6/90    2 (Arc, E1)             2.8       1          2           1          1
Spni 8            1W/90    2(E, Arc)                 2       1           1          1          1
Spn 9              3/91    2(E, Ph)                 1.6      1          2           1          1
Spin 10            6/91    3 (E, Ph, Imp)          3.2       1           1          1          1
Spn II            12/91    2(E, Ph)                2.6       1           1          2
Spn 12             6/92    2 (Ph, Pop)             2.8       2           3          2          2
Spn 13             3/93    2 (Ph, Pop)             0.7       2           3          2          2
Notes
I/   Arc = Architect; Demo = Demographer; E   Economist; [EC = Information Education and Communication
specialist: Imp = Implementation Specialist: Ph = Public Health Specialist; Pop = Population Specialist; Res =
Research Assistant.
2/   G = General Status: P = Procurement: M  = Management; F = availability of local funds; nr = not rated.



26
ANNEX 1
NAMES OF OFFICIALS MET DURING PCR MISSION
MOH
Mr. Mizere, Principal Secretary
Mr. Muva, Deputy Secretary
Mr. Mvula, Under Secretary
Dr. Chimimba, Chief of Health Services
Dr. Khosa, Acting Controller of Preventive Services
Professor Khonje, Controller of Technical Support Services
Dr. Chaziya, Deputy Controller of Clinical Services
Dr. Mukiwa, Principal LSHS
Ms. Mahaka, Principal Zomba School of Nursing
Dr. Mbvundula, Technical Advisor
Ms Kasonda, Head, Family Health Division
Ms. Makoza, Chief Nursing Officer
Mr. Perera, Project Coordinator
Mr. Chidyaonga, Project Architect
Mr. Kambalematore, Project Quantity Surveyor
Mr. Hara, Administrative Officer, PIU
Mr. Mwanza, Procurement Officer, PIU
Mr. Kalanje, Principal Manpower Development Officer
Mr. Madise, Senior Health Planning Officer
Mr. Limbane, Principal Personnel Officer
Ms. Gunde, Senior Personnel Officer
Mr. Chidamba, Public Health Officer
Mr. Mtika, Planning Officer
Ms. Ghambi, Senior Administrative Officer (Planning)
Ms. Kasondi, Rural Housing Advisor
MINISTRY OF WOMEN. CHILDRENS AFFAIRS AND COMMUNITY SERVICES
Ns. Kalyati. Principal Secretary
Nis ILaatunen, Long Term Consultant
Ms. Chirambo, Project Coordinator
Ms. Shawa. Nutritionist
MTENTHELA MATERNITY HEALTH CENTER
Mr. Sendezera, Medical Assistant
MCHINJI HOSPITAL
C. Chidongo, Chief Clinical Officer
H.H.D. Masuku, District Environmental Health Officer
M. Mpekansambo. Acting Matron
MZIMBA HOSPITAL
Dr. Huggett, District Health Officer
Dr. Pape, Govemment Medical Officer
Dr. Bettels, Peace Corps Doctor
Mr. Gondwe, Assistant Hospital Secretary
Mr. Sani, District Health Inspeclor
Mr. Malata, Acting Matron
Ms. Thole, Registered Community Health Nurse
REGIONAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT TEAM (NORTHERN REGION)
Dr. Khosa, Regional Health Officer
Mr. Mwamanyeta, Accountant
Ms. Katambo, Regional Nursing Officer
Ms. Muyengembe, Regional Public Health Nurse
Mr. Daudi, PHC Coordinator
Mr. Matela, Executive Officer
Ms. Mphande, Public Health Nurse



27
REGIONAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT TEAM (SOUTHERN REGION)
Mr. Antila, Senior Accountant
Mr. Jumula, Principal Environmental Health Officer
REGIONAL PHARMACEUTICAL DEPOT, MZUZU
Ms. Coats, Pharmacist in Charge
MZUZU TRAINING CENTER
Mr. Singini, Principal
MZOKOTO HEALTH CENTER
Ms. Chirwa, Enrolled Nurse Midwife
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Dr. Chayenda, Deputy Secretary
Mr. Mphonda, World Bank Desk Officer
Mr. Sibande, Senior Assistant Secretary on WorLd Bank Desk
EP&D
Mr. Kandaya, EP&D
Ms. Ayodaye, Family Nutrition Unit/Ministry of Agriculture
Mr. Chapakusa, Family Nutrition Unit/Ministry of Agriculture
OECH
Mr. Mtende, Principal Accountant
Mr. Nyirenda, Hospital Secretary
KCH
Ms. Kanjere, Hospital Secretary
Mr. Chikhosi, Hospital Administrator
Mr. Banda, Senior Assistant Hospital Secretary
Mr. Kaunda, Senior Accountant
MAKHANGA RURAL HEALTH CENTER
Mr. Benson Mtemula, MA
DONORS
Ms. Benbow-Ross, UNFPA
Dr. Graaff, WHO
Mr. Lovasz, EEC
Ms. Hahn, UNICEF



28
ANNEX 2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY (as of 30 June, 1993)
PROJECT CONIPON(ENTI|   STATUS AT THE
END OF THE PROJECT
(a)    Expansion of PHC program iront 9 to 15 districts, includinig training ot healti statt    ( Copleted
of MOH, DDCs and V13Cs provision ot equipment, supplies. motorcycles and
bicycles.
C onipleted
(b)    Constructing, turnishing anid equipping about 19 new RIICs andl related housing
facilities and upgrading 6 subcenters to RIICs
Completed
(c)    Constructing, furnishing and equipping a district hospital anid eclated housing
facilities at Mzimba.
MANAGEMENT, MANPOWER and SUPPORT SY S1l EMS
(a)    Strengthening rnalagemiitt at nationial, regionial atid district lcI tli iough .          MOI)I ieorganited  regioiial
healtlh teatils establishied,
(i)     reorganizing MOII s structure;                                                    planning capability
(ii)    establishing regional health teams;                                               improved
(iii)   operating annual workshops in hospital maniagemlent atid administratiotn;         Matiagetment strecngtiening
(iv)    improving planning capability at cenitral and district lesels: anid               continues unider Cr. 2220-
tv)     supporting the accounting sections of MOHi  thte regioial teamils, the three      MAI.
major hospitals and thte 21 district hospitals. i[icluditig pro iding computers
to MOII and the three major hospitals.
(b)    Strengthening MOH 's nraipo%er developimient capability through                            Nursing school completed:
(i)     constructing, furnishing and equippinlg a nursing schlool atid irlated            Manrpower l)evelopmient
facilities at Zomba;                                                             Unitt established: trainintg
(ii)    constructing, furnishinig and equipping three regiotial tramnitig tacilities tol  olficer appointed
health workers; and
(iii)    supporting MOI( 's nianpower planiting atid analysis capahility
(c)    Improvement of MOII s support systetms through:                                           Substantially a1CCo,plisheJd
(i)     increasing MOII s monitoring and evaluation capabilities,                        howe er. oni  six depots
(ii)    constructing, turnishing and equipping pharmaccutical depots at eight            completed at district
district hospitals, including provision of vehicles and supplies:                hospitals.
(iii)    establishing a quality control lahoratory
(iv)    training pharmacists, pharmacy techlinicians and assistants; and
(v)     reviewing and decentralizing the plharmaceutical systen.



29
PROJECT COMPONENT                                            STATUS AT THE
END OF THE PROJECT
(D)      FAMILY HEALTH
(a)    Support of the MCH program through:                                            Vehicles provided and drugs
(i)    providing vehicles and boats for health services' delivery;             distributed.
(ii)    developing an integrated family health course for about 200 health workers
annually;
(iii)   in-service training for about 900 health workers in priority diseases; and
(iv)    preparing and distributing drugs annually for about 1,100 MCH centers and
about 640 prenatal clinics.
(b)    Expansion and reinforcement of CS program through:                             Manuals and information
(i)    constructing, furnishing and equipping surgical contraception units at seven   materials prepared.
district hospitals;
(ii)    constructing, furnishing and equipping an urban family health unit in
Lilongwe, three health centers in Blantyre and Lilongwe, and upgrading
two existing health centers in Blantyre and Lilongwe;
(iii)   reviewing training plans for surgical contraception and development of a
system of quality control;
(iv)    training all health staff involved in the CS program; and
(v)    preparing and distributing manuals and information materials.
(c)    Establishment of nutrition activities in MOH.                                  No new nutrition activities
initiated.
MULTISECTORAL FAMILY HEALTH ACTIVITIES
(a)   Introducing family health topics in MOCS's functional literacy and women        Training center completed;
programs through:                                                              some training carried out
(i)    constructing and equipping a training center for the Northern Region;   and some informational
(ii)    training MOCS staff in health topics;                                  materials prepared and
(iii)    preparing and distributing informational materials;                   distributed.
(iv)    training women's groups in nutritional subjects; and
(v)    constructing and operating fish ponds.
(b)   Introduction of family health education activities in the MYP program through:  Instructors trained; some
(i)    training instructors;                                                   informational materials and
(ii)    providing informational materials and equipment; and                   equipment provided; and
(iii)   constructing fish ponds.                                               some fish ponds
constructed.
(c)    Development and implementation of nationwide IEC programs dealing with family
health subjects through:                                                       Not done.
(i)    preparing and distributing informational materials; and
(ii)    training Information Department staff.



ANNEX 3
Rural Health Centers Completed
Date      Equipment            Water                 StafHmg             Staff      Poptlation
District       Name of RHC        Takeover      Delivery           Supply                                   Houses       C overageo      Remarks
Houses   Coveragel
_ _I__ _   _ _   _ _   _ _      _       M    E     H            _
Karonga          Njala ya Nkhunda          5/90          5/90   Water system needs      1    I    1    5           3          14,000      New.
maintenance.                                                             In operation.
Rumphi           Chitimba                  6/90          6/90   Borehole functioning.   -     2    1    6          3          12,000      New.
In operation.
Mzokoto                  10/89         5/90   Piped water from         -    2    1    4          3          11,000      Upgrade.
Phwezi Water Scheme.
Mzimba           Choma                     4/90          6/90   Water tank needs              I    -    4          3          10,000      New.
cornection to borehole.                                                  In operation.
Khosolo                  5/90         10/91   Operational.                  I          4         3          13,000      Upgrade.
Bula                     5/91          5/91   Borehole needs           1    2     1    3         3          11,000      New.
Nkhatabay                                                       connection to the tank.                                                   In operation.
Chitheka                 5/92          6/92   Borehole needs           -    -    -    1          3          12,000      Not operational.
connection to the tank.
Kamboni                  5/90         12/90   Borehole not cornected   1    1    1    7          3          15,600      New.
Kasungu                                                  5/91  to the tank.                                                              In operation.
5/92
Kawanba                  6/89         11/89   Water pipes not          1    I    1    3          3          25,625      Upgrade.
connected to the
reservoir tank.
Nkhota Kota      Nsenjere                   1/92         7/90   Borehole poorly          1    2    1    8          3           7,366      Upgrade.
8/90   connected to the tantk.
5/91
Dowa             Chakhaza                  5/90         10/90   Borehole not connected   1    2    1    3          3          34,285      New.
to the tank.                           I                                  In operation.
Kayembe                  5/90         10/90   Borehole not connected        2    -    4          3          59,112      New.
to the tank.                                                             In operation.



Date      Equipment            WaterStfigsaf                                        Ppdio
District       Name of RHC        Takeover      Delivery           supply        ltaff                               |Coverage |io
Houses      Cvrg              eak
M   E  H  0
Nthondo                 10/92         12/92   Operational.            1    2      -    4         3          81,000      New,
Lilongwe                                                                                                                                  In operation.
Kangoma                 11/91         12/92   Operational.            l    2           7         3          35,800      New.
In operation.
Kalulu                   4/90          6/90   Borehole not connected     -    -         1        3          12,000      New.
Dedza                                                          to the tank.                                                               Not operational.
Kaphuka                  8/90          6/90   Borehole not connected  1    2      1    7         3          22,000      Upgrade.
to the tank.                                                              Functions as
Rural Hospital.
Ntcheu           Ositini                  10/88          5/91   Operational. Rural      1    2      -    8         3          12,880      New.
piped water from                                                          In operation.
Mpina-Balaka water
supply.
Mangochi         Lungwena                  6/90         11/90   Works well.             1    2      1    4         3          12,000      New.
Functions as
field practice
unit for Medical
School.
Chiradzulu       Mauwa                     5/90          8/91   Borehole not connected  -    2      1    4         3          14,000      New.
to the tank.                     I                                        In operation.
Chitera                  5/90          5/91   Borehole not connected  l    2      1    5         3          12,000      New.
to the tank.                                                              In operation.
Chikwawa         Kumaniza                  7/89         10/89   Operational. Solar      I    I    1    6           3          68,032      New.
pump installed.                                                          In operation.
Chabvala                 6/90          8/91   Borehole not connected                    1        3          17,000      New.
to the tank.                                                              Not operational.
Mulanje          Nkhulambe                 6/90          7/90   Borehole not connected  I    1    1    7           3          24,959      Upgrade.
12/90  to the tank.                                                              In operation.
M = Medical Assistant      E = Enrolled Nurse Midwife
H = Health Assistant       0 = Others



