Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6471-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
February 26, 1987
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document his a rewricled distribution and nmJ! he used b! recipienis onl in the performance of
their official duties  Its conltent  mae not otherwiwe be di%clo%ed without World Bonk authoriiation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Malavian Kwacha (K)
US$1.00 = K2.00
K1.00 = US$0.50
SDR1.00 = US$1.27
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                  =   3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m.)       =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)             =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq.km)  =   0.386 square miles
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Malawi in December 1985 and comprised Dr. V. Jagdish and Ms. F. Plunkett
(IDA). and Messrs. S. Ayalew. B. Jacobson. P. C. Mohan, and M. Tayback
(consultants), and on a donor coordination meeting that took place in
September 1986.



FOR OFFICIAL USK ONLY
MALAWI
SECOND FAMILY HZALTH PRDJBCT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Malawi
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Health. Department of Economic Planning
and Development
Credit Amount:       SDR 8.7 million (US$11.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA Terms
Project              The project objectives are to: (a) improve health status of
Description:         families. particularly of mothers and children through
expansion and strengthening of primary health care programs;
(b) increase the availability and accessibility of chi.d
spacing services within the maternal and child health
program; (c) further strengthen the Ministry of Health's
(MOH) capacity to plan. manage and evaluate health services
in the framework of a decentralized health system; and (d)
design and implement a multi-sectoral family health program
through other government agercies. The project is comprised
of two parts: The first part consists of activities to be
undertaken by the MOH and includes (a) the building of health
centers, replacement of a district hospital and the training
of and provision of equipment and supplies to village health
committee members and health care workers to extend coverage
of the primary health care system; (b) technical assistance.
training, and provision of computer equipment to reorganize
the MOH and to strengthen drug production and supply. health
service management and manpower development; and (c) the
production of Information. Education and Communications (IEC)
materials, health worker training, and the provision of
vehicles, drugs, and facilitied to strengthen maternal and
child health, child spacing and nutrition prograss. The
second part of the project consists of activities to be
coordinated by the Department of Economic Planning and
Development (BP and D) and includes (a) training of women's
welfare workers and youth progra instructors and the
production of educational materials on family health to be
introduced into functional literacy and youth programs; and
(b) the production of IEC materials on family health and
child spacing concepts to be introduced into the mses media.
Benefits             The project would directly benefit about 2 million people
and Risks:           throughout the country tbrough strengthening and expanding
primary health care and family health progrms and through
increased accessibility of child spacing services. In the
medium term, health status is expected to be improved by a
significant reduction in the incidence of infant and maternal
mortality and morbidity. Population increase would be slowed
This document hu a restricted dtstribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
through a significant increame in women using modern
contraceptives. The main project risk relates to weak
implementation capacity. The project minimises thi$ risk by
(a) strengthening with additioal staffing and technical
assistance the units involved in carrying out the civil works
component; (b) coordination of *ulti-sectoral family health
activities through the BP and D. which is being ctrengthened
with technical assistance; (c) implemeotation of multi-
sectoral family health activities through ministries with
demonstrated adequate implementation capacity; and (d)
support for a comprehensive management review to support the
Ministry' s reorganization.
Estiaated Cost:                                        Local      Foreign      Total
Copq oneut                                              -     -(US$ Million)--
A.  Primary Health Care                                  4.4       3.2          7.6
D. Management. Manpower and Support Systems              1.8        1.5         3.3
C.  Family Health                                        3.0       2.8          5.8
D.  Project Management                                   0.2       1.3          1.5
E.  Health Through Other Ministries                      2.7        1.6         4.3
Total Baseline Costs                              12.1       10.4         22.5
Physical Contingencies                             0.7        0.8          1.5
Price Contingencies                                0.5        0.4          0.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS a/                            13.3       11.6         24.9
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
------- (US$ Million)-
IDA                                             4.7        6.3         11.0
UIN!CU                                          1.2        1.4          2.6
EDP                                             2.4        1.1          3.5
KfW                                             2.2        1.9          4.1
Government of the Netherlands                    .3         .6           .9
UNYPA                                            .9          -           .9
Government of Malawi (including taxes)          1.6        0.3          1.9
TOTAL                                        13.3       11.6         24.9
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
IDA n         88    89    90       91     92    93
------------US$ Millions------
Annual       0.6   2.4    3.0    2.7    1.7   0.6
Cumulative   0.6   3.0    6.0    8.7   10.4  11.0
Rate of Return: N.A.
^ p                        IBRD 20099
a/ Includes US$0.4 million for taxes and duties.



-iii-
tALAWI
S8COND FAMILY IMALTH PAJ3CT
STAFF APPRAISAL RWORT
TABLE OF CONTETS
Credit an  Project Summary 
Table of Contents
asic Data                                                         v
Definitions                                                      vi
Abbreviationo                                                   vii
I  INTDUCTION                                                     I
II POPULATION AM  HEALTH SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUS                  2
A. Population                                                  2
B. Health                                                      5
C. Sectoral Issues                                            17
D.  Role of the Bank                                          19
I.  The First Phase of the National Health Plan               20
III THE PROJECT                                                  22
A. Objectives and Design                                      22
B. Smary Description                                          23
C. Detailed Description                                       24
IV   PRJCT COSTS  N FINANCING                                    33
A. Costs                                                      33
B. Financing                                                  36
C. Procurement                                                39
D. Disbursemnts                                               41
K. Accounts and Audit                                         42
V  PROJCT IMPLDIATION                                            43
A. Status of Project Preparation                              43
B. Organization and Management                                43
C. Monitoring. Reporting and Evaluation                       44



VI PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AM RISKS                        47
A. Benefits and Justification                                   47
B.  Risks                                                       49
VII  ASSURANCES AND RECOMbM)ATIONS                                 51
TABLES:
1. Pr-ject Costs by kzpenditure Category                           33
2. Project Costs by Functional Component                           35
3. Project Costs by Financing Source                               38
4. Procurement Table                                               40
ANNIOS:
1. Statistical Annez                                               53
2. Documents Available in Project File                             68
3. Det&iled Cost Tables (Sumary Accounts)                          69
CHARTS:
1. Current Organizational Structure of the Ministry of He,lth   77
2. Proposed Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Health  78
MAP
IBRD 20099 - Malawi. Primary Health Care Project



Mlv
MALAWUI
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Basic Data
(All figures apply to 1985 unless otherwise indicated)
General:
Ares                                                       118.500 sq. km.
Area (land only)                                            94.300 sq.ka
Population                                                   7,154,000
Population Density                                         74 per km2
Rural population as a proportion of total population   91.5X (1977)
Crude birth rate                                           54/1000 population
Crude death rate                                           23/1000 population
Rate of population growth                                  3.2S
Infant mortality rate                                      151/1000 live births
GNP per capita (US$)                                       170
Health:
Population per physician                                   52,893
Population per nurse                                       2,978
Population per hospital bed                                7,127
Proportion of births attended by trained personnel         601  (1984)
Proportion of woven receiving antenatal care by
trained personnel                                       701  (1984)
Proportion of children between 1 and 2 years
of age fully immunized                                  55X
Governmsent ezpenditure on Ministry of Health
as proportion of total budget                            4.81



_vi-
Definitions
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate:       The percentage cf married women of
reproductive age who are using (or whome
husbands are using) any form of
contraception.
Crude Birth Rate:                    The number of births per 1.000 population
in a given year.
Crude Death Rate:                    The number of deaths per 1.000 population
in a given year.
Dependency Ratio:                    The ratio of the economically dependent
part of the population to the productive
part, arbitrarily defined as the ratio of
the young (those under 15 years of age)
plus the elderly (those 65 years of age
and over) to the population in the
"working ages" (those 15 to 64 years of
age).
Infant Mortality Rate:               The number of deaths of infants under one
year old in a given year per 1.000 live
births in that year.
Life Upoctancy at  Birth:            The average number of years a newborn
would live if current age-specific
mortality rate trends prevailing at the
time of birth were to continue.
Rate of Natural Increase:            The rate at which a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a given
year due to surplus (or deficit) of
births over deaths expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Rate of Population Growth:           The rate at vhich a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a given
year due to natural increase and net
migration, expressed as a percentage of
the base population.
Total Fertility Rate:                The average number of children that would
be born alive to a woman (or group of
women) during her lifetime if during her
child-bearing years she were to bear
children at each age in accord with
prevailing age-specific fertility rates.



-vii-
U BR8VIATIONS
ACMO                            Assistant Chief Medical Officer
CBR                             Crude Birth Rate
M3A                             Comunity Development Assistant
M)R                             Crude Death Rate
CHSU                            Community Health Sciences Unit
CHS                             Chief of Health Services
CMS                             Central Medical Stores
CO                              Clinical Officer
DMO                             District Medical Officer
IN                              Enrolled Nurse
SP and D                       Department of Economic Planning and
Development
SPT                             Expanded Program of Immunization
FFS                             Family Formation Survey
GDP                            Gross Dowestic Product
HA                              Health Assistant
HI                             Health Inspector
HSA                            Health Surveillance Assistont
INC                             Information. Education and Comunication
IMR                            Infant Mortality Rate
IUD                            Intrauterine Device
KfW                            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MA                             Medical Assistant
MCH                            Maternal and Child Health
MDT                            Multiple Drug Therapy
MOCS                           Ministry of Comunity Services
MOH                            Ministry of Health
MowS                           Mit Axtry of Works and Supplies
MWRA                           Married Women of Reproductive Age
MYP                            Malawi Young Pioneers
NSO                            National Statistical Office
OPC                            Office of the President and Cabinet
PHAM                           Private Hospitals' Association of Malawi
PHC                            Primary Health Care
RNI                            Rate of Natural Increase
SCO                            Senior Clinical Officer
TBA                            Traditional Birth Attendants
TFR                            Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA                          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF                         United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                          United States Agency for International
Development
VHC                            Village Health Comittee
WHO                            World Health Organization



MALAWI
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Malawi is a land-locked country located in east central Africa.
It has a total land area of approximately 118.500 km2 of vhich Ekpproximately
36.200 km2 is considered arable. Geographical:y, Malavi is bordered to the
north by Tanzania; to the east, south and southwest by Mozambique; and to
the west by Zambia.
1.02      Malawi in divided into three administrative regions which vary
significantly in topography and climate. The Northern Region consists
largely of plateausi ranging from about 1,500 to. 2,500 meters high and with
temperature ranges between 15OC and 18oc. The Central Region has low lying
terrain along Lake Malawi rising to highland plateaus ranging from about
1,000 to 1.200 meters and with a temperature range similar to the Northern
Region. The Southern Region iS distinguished by widely varying climatic and
topological areas: the Shire Valley. in the extreme south, is very hot with
an average annual temperature of 27oc; and the highest mountain, Mount
Mulanje and the Shire highlands which have generally cool temperatures.
1.03      Between 1967 and 1979 Malawi's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew
at an annual average rate of 6.8%. In 1979-1981 the economy of Malawi fell
upon hard times. As a result of deteriorating terms of trade, drought and
disruptions on external transport routes the GDP fell by 2.7 percent;
deficit on the current account and in the Government budget ballooned to
unsustainable levels, and investment and savings rates fell sharply.
1.04      The Government launched a two-pronged effort to deal with the
problems of the economy: a stabilization program designed to reduce short-
term fiscal and balance of payments disequilibria and a structural
adjustment progrua designed to improve efficiency of resource use and to
ensure that positive growth of per capita income could be re-established and
maintained over the medium and long-term, within the context of a manageable
balance of payments current account deficit. These programs have been
supported by three structural adjustment operations from the World Bank and
a series of standbys and an Extended Financing Facility from the
International Monetary Fund. As a result of the improved policy
environment, more favorable climatic conditions and better export prices,
the Malawian economy began to recover and in 1983-84 GDP grew at about 4.1
percent with expainsion occurring in most sectors. The balance of payments
deficit on the current account was reduced and the budget deficit as a
percentage of GDP was also reduced significantly. Despite continued
implementation of these programs, Malawi's economic recovery has slowed in
1985. It is estimated that GDP growth fell from 4.1 percent in 1984 to less
than 2.5 percent in 1985. This was the result of exogenous factors. It is
believed that the recent setbacks are temporary and that, with continued
implementation of the Government's program, growth of per capita income can
resume and financial equilibrium can be restored. Despite the progress made
in the past twenty years, Malawi is still ote of the poorest countries in
the world.



- 2 -
II.  POPULATION AND HRALTH SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES
A. Population
Demogri phic Situation
2.01        The popul4tion of Malawi was enumerated as 5.55 million in
Septemler 1977. It had increased by 37 percent since 1966. when the
enumerited population was 4.04 million, thus implying an average annual rate
of intor-censal growth of 2.9 percent. The population in 1985 was estimated
to be .15 million and the growth rate 3.2 pertent.  Malawi is one of the
most d4!nsely populated countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. equalled or
surpasoied only by Rwanda, Burundi, Nigeria and Uganda. The national density
accord ng to the 1977 census was 59 inhabitants per ka2, and this may now
have r sen to 74 per km2. There is considerable variation within the
countr, however, vith 1977 regional densities ranging from 24 in the
Northe:n Region. 60 in the Central Region, 87 in the Southern Region, and
distri :t densities varying from 11 to 230 persons per k2.  The level of
urbani! ation in Malawi is low by any standard. If urban is defined as
locali:ies with a minimum of 2000 inhabitants. 8.5 percent of the population
in 197' lived in urban areas, and only 5 percent in 196t. The urban growth
rate bhls been high, however, averaging 7.6 percent between 1966 and 1977.
2.02      Between 1966 and 1977 rural-to-urban moves made up about 35 to 45
perceri: of all internal migration. Otber important migration streams were
into a reas of commercial agricultural development or new agricultural
bettlElaents and out of areas with population pressure on limited land
resouices (such as the Shire highlands) or areas lacking in general economic
devel(pment (such as most of the Northern Region). External migration.
imporiant in past decades, has undoubtedly fallen and is expected to
contitue to diminish.
2.03      The level of mortality in Malawi from the 1950. to the mid 1970s
was e ceptionally high by any standard, and declined only very slowly during
this period. According to Bank estimates, life expectancy stood at only 37
years in the late 1950s, then rose to 39 years by the mid-1960. and to 41
years by the early 1970.. Theme low levels of life expectancy are due
prima.ily to extremely heavy mortality in childhood. Even in tne early
1970s, the national infant mortality rate (IMR) was as high as 190 per
thousind live births, with 36 percent of all children dying before reaching
their fifth birthday. The IMR is estima^ed currently to be 151/1000 live
birtbh ranging from about 70/1000 in part,, of the Southern Region to about
over ZOO/1000 in parts of the Central Region. A Family Formation Survey
(FPS) undertaken in 1984 whose results are currently being analyzed, may
provide some information into the causes of childhood mortality. By
contiast, adult mortality appears to be unremarkable by Eastern African
standards. The level of fertility is high. In the mid 1970s, the total
fertility rate (TFR) was estimated at between 7.5 and 8.0 and is unlikely to



have changed since. Regionally the TFR is highest in the Central Region at
around 8.5 and lowest in the Southern Region between 7 and 7.5. The TPR in
the Northern Region is close to the national average.
Population Prolections
2.04      Rapid population growth in Malawi is all but inevitable over the
next two decades though a decline in fertility would reduce the rate of
population growth. Thus, if fertility remains constant, the population
would grow from 7.15 million in 1985 to 11.95 million in 2000 and 21.31
million in 2015. If there is standard decline in fertility, the population
would grow to 11.44 million in 2000 and 17.09 million in 2015. If there is
accelercted decline in fertility, the population would reach 10.63 million
in 2000 and 13.29 million in 2015.
MALAWI:  POPULATION PROJECTIONS 1985-2015
Ratio of Population
Population        to Base 1985
(in millions)      population in
1985      2000       2015      2000       2015
A. Constant Fertility    7.15        11.95     21.31      167       298
B. Standard Decline       7.15       11.44     17.09      160       239
C. Accelerated Decline   7.15        10.63     13.29      149       186
Socio-economic Implications of Population Growth
2.05        Malawi faces the prospect of a 50 to 702 increase in population
size over the coming 15 years. and a doubling or tripling witbin the next 30
years. Such rapid population growth would have significant socio-economic
consequences. During the 1970s economic growth averaged 6.8S annually.
while the population growth rate during the same period was 2.8 to 2.9S.
This resulted in a continued increase in per capitn income. Between 1979
and 1983 GDP growth fell to 2.82 per annum and has failed to match
population growth, with a consequent slight decline in average income. Much
of the economic growth is due to estate and s'allholder agriculture.
However, the growth of the agriculture sector is constrained by shortage of
land. The following table ehows the land required to support the population
at present nutritional levels and land productivity under three fertility
assumptions.



- 4 -
TABLE
Land Needed to Support   Percent of Total Land
Fertility Assumption              Population (km2)         Resources* Required
for Cultivat,on
2000           2015      2000    2015
Constant Fertility              24,054          42,888         63    113
(deficit)
Standard Decline                23,018          34.389         61       91
Accelerated Decline             21.259          26,749         56       71
*not including land under estate cultivation in 1985.
Source: Malavi Population Sector Review: March 1986. Table 7.
2.06      If fertility remains constant, there are major implications for
primary education expenditures. To achieve current enrollment targets for
primary education, annual costs would have to rise from K24.4 million in
1985 to K68.2 million in 2000 and to K159.3 million in 2015 (a 553S increase
froo 1985 to 2015). With accelerated fertility decline, annual costs would
rise from K24.4 million in 1985 to K61.2 million in 2000 and to K66.1
million in 2015 (a 1712 increase). Thus rapid fertility decline could
result in annual savings of K93 million by 2015. Similarly, a decline in
fertility could cut annual secondary education expenditure within 30 years
by 17X if fertility declines moderately, and by 43S if rapid fertility
decline occurs. The need for expanded Maternal and Child Health (MCH)
services will also increase substantially. If no fertility decline occurs,
the number of children under 5 years of age would increase by 70S in 15
years and would more than triple within 30 years to 4.5 million. In order
to maintain present levels of services, MCH expenditures would have to grow
by 3.8 percent annually. Since coverage is still very incomplete, much
larger cost increases would be necessary to achieve an adequate standard of
MCH care. Reduction in fertility would not only reduce health costs, but
enable the country to increase the quality and scope of the health services.
Population Policy
2.07        Although until recently population growth has not been
considtered a problem by the Governsent of Malavi, child spacing has come to
be recognized as a valuable component of MCH services on the grounds that
unregulated pregnancies endanger the health of both mothers and children.
In 1982 the Govermnent decided to include child spacing services as part of
the MCH program. The overall goal of the child spacing program is 'to
reduce maternal morbidity and mortality by allowing the mother to rest
between pregnancies and to reduce infant and chiAd morbidity and mortality".
The Government further stated that the introduction of child spacing



- 5 -
services left intact the right of the family to have as many children as
desired, and that the child spacing program was not a tool of population
control. These statements reflected deeply rooted attitudes in Malawian
society favoring large numbers of children.
2.08      The last two years have seen significant changes in attitudes at
all levels. There is increasing concern over the consequences of current
rates of population growth, and there is awareness that rapid growth may be
a constraint to developsent. At the 1984 International Population
Conference in Mexico, the Government expressed its support for the concept
of educating the public about the benefits of small families. At the
request of the Government. IDA undertook a Population Sector Review in
nctober 1984. Two major recommendations emerged from the review. The first
was that the Government should establish a formal capacity for population
policy formulation and planning. The second was that the MCH program and
its child spacing component should be further developed and strengthened.
For planning it was recommended that the Government establish a population
planning capacity in the Economic Planning Division, Office of the President
and Cabinet, to develop a multi-sectoral population program. Population
related activities should be started in priority ministries, such as
Education, Community Services, Health, Agriculture, and the Information
Department of the Office of the President and Cabinet. For MCH and child
spacing services it was recommended that the Child Spacing Program should be
revised for incorporation into the five-year National Health Plan then under
preparation. A seminar vas held in June 1985 to discuss the report and the
major recommendations were accepted by the Government. The introduction of
the child spacing program has generated interest among the public, despite
the limited availability of services. Though no systematic surveys have yet
been undertaken, it is increasingly evident that demand is growing rapidly.
Random record checks at child spacing clinics show that an increasing
proportion of clients come from outside the catchment areas. People are
willing to travel long distances to obtain contraceptives. This phenomenon
has been observed in hospitals, in urban and rural areas alike. Demand for
services has led the MOH to develop plans for a nationwide child spacing
program. The results of the 1984 Family Formation Survey financed under the
first IDA-supported health project are expected shortly and will contribute
to a better understanding of the determinants of fertility in Malawi.
B. Health
Health and Nutrition Status
2.09        Mortality is high, particularly amongst infants and children.
The Crude Death Rate (CDR) is estimated to be 23 and the Infant Mortality
Rate (IMR) 151. While mortality has declined from its high levels in the
1950s and 1960s (CDR 30, IKR 200), compared to neighboring countries.
Malavi's infant and child mortality are very high. Infant mortality in
rural areas is reported to be twice that in urban areas. The leading causes



- 6 -
of death (inpatient data) in children 0-4 years are: measles (16.21).
pneumonia (13.02). nutritional deficiency (11.2Z). malaria (10.1).  nemia
(9.1) and diarrheal diseases (8.41) (Annez 1. Table 1). These data show
that 57 percent of all deaths in Malawi occur in children under five years
of age. and that malnutrition directly or indirectly accounts for at least
one-third of all deaths in the country.
2.10      Data on morbidity is obtained from outpatient facilities only.
The leading causes of morbidity are: malaria, respiratory infections,
diarrheal diseases, skin diseases, inflamatory eye diseases, traumas
venereal diseases, and hookworm and other helminthic infestations. Among
children 0-4 yeare. malaria (35.6%). respiratory infections (19.81).
diarrheal diseases (8M7), inflanmatory eye diseases (7.91) and skin
diseases (5.6S) (Annez 1 Table 2) are the five leading causes of outpatient
morbidity. These account for 77.6Z of morbidity of children and vould be
relatively easily preventable.
2.11      Nutritional information is sparse and generally outdated.  The
1981 National Sample Survey of Agriculture revealed that Malawian infants
have a very high level of stunting. A distinct growth fUltering begins at 6
months of age, possibly due to insufficient food intake and the onset of
infectious diseases. The prevalence of underweight and wasting was found to
be higher between 6-24 months, coinciding with the nutritionally critical
period of weaning. Prevalence of stunting increases r"ith age through the
first three years when it reaches a peak of 652 and levels off at 601 for
the remaining two years. This shows that most children get stunted during
the weaning period, a time of aximal growth. The survey found over 502 of
preschool children to be chronically malnourished (below 2 standard
deviations weight for age - ranging from 472 to 651) in different parts of
the country. This compares with 371 in Kenya and 282 in Zimbabwe. This is
the highest in Eastern and Southern Africa (except for Ethiopia). A more
recent survey (in one district only) has highlighted the problem of food
availability. Sixty-nine percent of women interviewed said they had
insufficient food for their families. Taking April as the first month of
the harvest, 301 of women reported they had exhausted food supplies by
September and 602 by December. The EP and D has recently begun work on
formulating a food and nutrition policy. This is being supported through an
MDA-financed agricultural project. Since the nutrition problem in Halawi is
primarily one of shortage of food, changes in agricultural policy are likely
to have a greater impact on nutrition than specific nutrition program
interventions. Nevertheless, other necessary nutrition activities are
included in the proposed project.
Health Plans
2.12       Shortly after independence, the Government launched its first
five-year plan (1965-69). Resources were devoted prinmrily to curative
services and development of nursing manpower. Evaluations of plan
isplementation showed that these interventions, though important, were
unlikely by themselves to improve health status. With assistance from the



- 7 -
World Health Organization (WHO). the Government produced a 15-year health
plan (1973-1988) whose priorities yere: development of basic health
services; control of comunicable diseases; manpower development;
construction of new hospitals and improvement of mzisting ones; and
reorganization of the MOH.  In 1975 emphsis was placed on the expansion of
maternal and child health services and in 1978 the MOH introduced a primary
health care (PHC) program on a pilot basis. Implementation of the 15-year
health plan was hampered by: lack of adequate financial resources, scarcity
of trained manpower and inexperienced health administrators. Recognizing
that the 15-year plan covered too long a tise period and was outdated, the
MOH began preparation of a 10-year National Health Plan in 1983 through the
first L1A-supported health project.
2.13      National Health Plan (1986-1995) and Health Policy.  The National
Health Plan has met the following medium-term goals:   ...to achieve a drop
in early childhood mortality of 33.32 over a fiveyear period; to achieve an
improvesent in maternal health; and to impact on the extent and severity of
illness due to major causes of morbidity 5 years of age and over through the
Primary Health Care approach and/or core health service*s. To accomplish
these goals, six specific objectives have been formulated: (1) improv'
access to a rational network of available and acceptable facilities by
extending the peripheral services. especially comunity based services and
by modestly strengthening hospital facilities and staffing; (2) establish
effective mechanisms for the MOH manpower development and the monitoring of
deployment; (3) improve the management support of the enhanced health
delivery system; (4) improve child survival of the under five age group;
(5) improve health status generally by strengthening relevant programs; and
(6) improve the nutritional status of mothers and children.
2.14      For the first five years (1986-1990) the plan assumes that there
will be no real growth in the MOH s recurrent budget. Recognizing the
budgetary constraints, emphasis is placed on improved cost recovery and cost
effectiveness. At the same time emphasis is placed on consolidation of
existing services and expansion of prioritv health programs which have loi.
recurrent cost or manpower isplications. Recognizing the seriousness of the
nutrition problem. the Plan has highlighted nutrition activities. Given the
resource constraints the MOH faces on the one hand, and the need for
priority health programs on the other. the plati is sodest in its resource
requirements and in its expectations.
Organization of Health Services
2.15      MOH has primary responsibility for the development of policies.
strategies and programs for health care in Halawi. Public health services
are provided mainly by the MOH. The Private Hospitals Association of Malawi
(PHAM) made up of church-related and other private voluntary agency
facilities is the largest non-governsent provider of health services.



- 8 -
2.16       MOH services are provided at five levels:  comunity, health
centers and rural hospitals, district hospitals. e ntral hospitals and
special hospitals. Services at the comunity level consist of an eztensive
network of outreach activities through mobile clinics and the PHC program.
(paras. 2.33-34). Comunity level services strese activities and
interventions associated with under fives care (health education.
environmental sanitation. diarrheal disease control, immunizations, pre- and
post-natal care, and growth monitoring). The MOH runs 162 bealth centers
and 19 rural hospitals which offer similar services: curative care, pre-
natal, natal ard post-natal care, infant and child care, and comaunity
services. Many health centers also run nutrition clinics (nutrition
education, food preparation demonstrations and free food supplements).
There are 21 district hospitals run by the MOH which serve as referral
facilities for health centers. In addition, they offer all preventive
services available at the health center. The two central hospitals function
as referral hospitals for their respective regions. They are also used as
training facilities for various training institutions. There is one general
bospital. Special hospitals offer specialized services, including mental
health services and inpatient care for leprosy and tuberculosis cases.
There are considerable regional variations with regard to the distribution
and coverage of facilities.  Twenty percent of all health facilities are
situated in the northern region. 332 in the central region and 471 in the
southern region for populations of 860,000. 2.785.000. and 3.432.000
respectively. The percentage of population within 8ka of a health facility
is 57, 70, and 100 for the northern, central, and southern regions
respectively. There are a total of 17.664 beds in the country of which
6.017 are in MOH facilities. Utilization of hospital services (both
inpatient and outpatient) is very high (Annex 1. Table 3). The same is the
case with services provided at health centers and sub-centers, where daily
patient loads range between 100 and 150.
2.17        PHAM operates 20 district hospitals. 19 rural hospitals, and 97
health centers in the country. PHAM hospitals account for just over one-
third of all adcissions. PHAM facilities see about 142 of total outpatient
first attendances.  Services offered by PHAM are similar to those of the
MOH. At PRAM facilities fees are charged for curative services though most
preventive services are available free of charge. Despite efforts by the
MOH and the PHAM secretariat the quality of services provided at individual
PHAM facilities varies enormously.
2.18       PHAM provides about 451 of the country's health services and its
training institutions produce nearly 701 of Malawi's enrolled nurses. Due
to severe financial constraints however, a number of PHAM units have been
asking the MOH to take over operations of these units. The MOH, which
provides an annual subsidy to PHAM, is not considering any take-over.
Instead plans have been formulated to ensure close cooperation and
coordination between PHAM and MOH. These plans would enable the MOH to:
establisb peripheral health staff positions in PHAM facilities; utilize the
training capacity of PHAM for its training needs; integrate district level
supervision and in-service training for PHAM and MOH programs; adopt



standardized preventive and curative interventions at PHAJ and MOH health
facilities; and standardize job descriptions and training for health staff.
2.19       Local government authorities and other agencies such as the army.
police, estates and industries provide curative and preventive services for
their employees. Private medical practice is limited to about 35 physicians
in urban areas. There are about 5,000 traditional healers and 5.000
traditional birth attendants (TBAs) scattered throughout the country. By
July 1985 about 800 TBAs had been trained by the MOH. Formal links between
the MOH and traditional practitioners do not exist.
Management and Administration
2.20       The Principal Secretary is the senior manager in the MOH vho is
responsible for both its technical and administrative branch (Chart I). The
Chief of Health Services (CHS) has overall responsibility for all technical
services. He is assisted by senior technical staff. On the administrative
side. the Deputy Secretary is responsible for the Planning Unit and for the
administrative units such as finance. personnel, administration and internal
audit. Below the MOH. the health care delivery system has three levels.
viz, regional, district and peripheral. Each of the country's three regions
has a Regional Health Team comprising of a Regional Public Health Inspector
and a Regional MCH Coordinator who report directly to their respective units
at the MOH. The District Medical Officer (DMO) is responsible for all
health services in the district and reports directly to the CHS. Peripheral
health services are managed by the medical assistant in charge of the health
center. Together with the health assistant he is responsible for supporting
primary health care activities at the village level.
2.21       With increasing emphasis on preventive and rural h..slth services,
ad hoc organizational and management changes have been made periodically in
the structure of the MOH. However, the organization structure is
cumbersome. Recognizing these problems, the Malawi Civil Service Review
Comission undertook a comprehensive study of the MOH in 1984. The study
highlighted the MOH's major management problems. First, the objectives of
the MCH and the individual departments were no longer appropriate to the
changing health needs of Malawi. Second. lines of authority were often
unclear. Accountability followed professional rather than functional lines.
Third. individual roles vere inadequately defined and often there were no
job descriptions. This led to ad hoc allocation of responsibilities and
often resulted in reduced efficiency. Fourth, there were too many levels of
authority in the administrative branch of the MOH. At the same time, the
reverse occurred at the district level where a sanager was expected to
sanage too large working groups.  Fifth, the decision making process was
over-centralized. Routine operational issues were referred to the CHS which
should have been dealt with lover down the hierarchy. Sixth, management
support systems were inadequate. There was no firm control or monitoring of
expenditures particularly with regard to vehicles and supplies.  This may
have been due to the fact that a number of positions in the establishment



- 10 -
list could not be filled because of budgetary constraints. Seventh, the
Regional Health Teams and District Health Teams typically lacked experience
in planning and evaluation. Finally, there was inadequate supervision of
peripheral health workers due largely to poorly developed supervisory
systems, lack of training in supervision, lack of delegation of authority
and transport shortages.
2.22      The recommendations of the Civil Service Review Commission have
been studied by the MOH and a new organizational structure has been proposed
(Chart II). The recommendations of the Commission together with the MOH's
proposals have been reviewed by an inter-ministerial committee chaired by
the Secretary to the Office of the President and Cabinet. Additional
studies are being carried out through the IDA health project. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government will submit to IDA
for its review and coments, a revised organization chart for MOH by
September 1, 1987, and formally adopt such revised organization chart by
October 1, 1987 (para. 7.Ola).
Pharmaceutical Procurement and Distribution
2.23      Pharmaceuticals for the health sector are supplied by the Central
Medical Stores (CMS), a self-financing and self-accounting body since April
1984. In 1983-84 its annual turnover was around K4 million. Pricing of
drugs is currently fixed at CIF value plus 12.5X to cover all operating
costs (up from 31 before April 1984). The CMS is responsible for
procurement, inventory control and store keeping, drug assembly, repackaging
and distribution, and manufacture of simple products. Since 1983, a program
of continued upgrading of its operating procedures has beer underway.
Facilities for formulation and manufacture of simple drugs have been
established in Blantyre. Regional stores are being con*tructed in Lilongwe
and Mzuzu. Implementation of plans to improve drug procurement and
monitoring has begun. These activities when fully operational are expected
to result in cost savings of K900,000 annually. Most of the key elements in
an essential drugs policy are either already implemented or are under
discussion. Thus, an Essential Drugs List was drawn up in 1985 and is being
revised; procurement for the public sector is under generic names through
ICB, and legislation on pharmaceutical matters has been drafted. The
development of a district level network, equipping of a quality control
laboratory, and further training of staff constitute the next phase of
development of the pharmaceutical system.
Manpower and Training
2.24      T ere were 4,962 established positions in the MOH in June 1984.
Nearly 151 of these positions were vacant (Annex 1, Table 4). A
considerable amount of manpower development activities have been undertaken
during the past 5 years. Annex 1, Table 5 presents the growth of health
staff between 1978 and 1983 by category. From this table it is clear that
some categories of staff are particularly affected--the number of medical
officers and dentists declined during this period whereas the number of



- it -
clinical officers. enrolled nurses. laboratory technicians and health
educator. (manpower pril_rily staffing rural health facilities) rose
substantially. The NO has concentrated upon the develoyeant of health
auziliaries ed has been able to post soot staff to rural hcalth facilities.
Staffing patterns are being reviewed and the MOH plans to add one health
ssistant and comnalty health nurse at each health center.   With low
attrition rates (about 5S per annua) it Lo likely that the MOH will be able
to produce adequate numbers of health auxiliaries to staff its facilities
during the plan period (Annex 1. Table 6). Furthermore, PHAN
training facilties produce more enrolled nurses than they can absorb but
the MMB can utilise the surplus. The proposed project does not require
significant additional manpower. The NOR's training facilities are expected
to be able to supply all required health auxiliaries. Tho project itself
would * phasise continuing education at this stage.
2.25      The question of shortage of doctors is. however, another matter.
Malwi does not have a mdical school.  In the past, the country hba  sent
candidates abroad to pursue medical studies. However, difficulties in
securing admissions to overseas universities and problems in persuading
doctors to return has led to a chronic and serious shortage. The MOB is
tborefore considering establishing a medical school in the country.
Feasibility studies have been carried out. These studios have highlighted
the bigh cost of establishing a separate medical school and a teaching
hospital. A review of optiono to establish a medical school has recently
been completed by the NOR with support from the Overseas Development
Adainistration and the Federal Republic of Germany. The emphasis on
'comnity bealth in the proposed curriculum is particularly attractive and
could be tbh basis for the developaent of appropriate medical education in
Malawi. The use of mxisting hospitals for the proposed medical school would
significantly reduce the coot of such a project. Preparatory work on a
project proposal has begun. A medical school proposal has been included in
the Public Sector lnvestment Programs it is possible in our view for Malawi
to consider establishing such a medical school.
2.26      Ifforts to establish continuing education programs for health
worikers began in 1964. However, few facilities eoist and continuing
education prograas are hold at hotels at high costs and at infrequent
intervals. The other major problo with continuing education programs is the
lack of coordination aaong major service prograns resulting in duplication
and wastage of scarce resources. These problems underline the inability of
the NMM to plan and imploemnt continuing education progrms.
Maternal and Child Health (MCI)
2.27      Tbh  objectives of the MCH program are to:  strengthen and expand
MCM services throughout the countrys strengthen the training of health
woikercs increase immunisation coverage of all children to 802 by 1990;
improve nutritional status of children and decrease the incidence of
undermeLght children through growth monitoring with nutrition education and



- 12 -
food supplementation where neeeseary; use Traditional Birth Attendants
(TBAs) to deliver MCH services; and, promote child spacing. The MCH program
wao initiated in 1973 under the Assistant Chief Medical Officer (ACMD), MCH.
At the regional level, an MCH supervisor oversee MCH activities in each of
the three regions. At the district level, a member of the ezisting district
health staff, usually a nurse. is appointed as MCH coordinator.
2.28      Child care services are provided through 1,075 static and outreach
under-five clinics throughout the country. There were about 600,000 first
attendances of children under one year of age in 1983. Immunizations are
provided as part of the MCR program. Despite an impressive beginning.
shortage of equipment and suppliex, weak cold chain and poorly trained staff
have resulted in the proportion of fully immunized c1ildren to decrease by
about 202 since 1982. Present coverage levels are about 352. Nutritional
surveillance and education activities are undertaken at health clinics. The
quality and impact of these activities have not been evaluated.
2.29      In 1984. an evaluation of MCH activities was undertaken.  The
evaluation confirmed earlier field observations that the quality of services
is consistently high and the people attending appeared to have confidence in
the staff providing the services. However, coverage appears to be far from
adequate; about 60Z of women have at least one antenatal visit, some 402 of
all pregnant women deliver at home, and over 502 of children aged four years
and under are not being reached by MCH services. Services are constrained
by lack of transport, drugs and IEC materials. Mothers with young babies
under two years do not seem to use the services as much as mothers with
older children. Also, use of facilities for post-partum services is
virtually non-existent. This. together with low immunization coverage and
poor nutrition, may be significant reasons for Malavi's high IMR.
Unregulated fertility, often resulting in short birth intervals and early
weaning, is another factor associated with continued high infant and child
mortality rates.
Child Spacing
2.30      In light of the continuing problems of infant and child mortality,
the MOH organized a workshop on Health and the Family .n 1981 which
recommended the introduction of child spacing services. In 1983 an initial
two-year plan to initiate child spacing was prepared. The main objectives
of the plan were to: orient health staff on child spacing; provide
technical training to providers of child spacing services; develop the
capability of the MOH to implement the child spacing program; organize
seminars to acquaint community leaders and the public about child spacing;
provide child spacing services as an integral part of MCH services at
various levels of the health care delivery syotem; and develop a simple
system for monitoring and evaluation of child spacing activities.
2.31      In 1983, child spacing services were introduced in the two central
hospitals at Blantyre end Lilongwe and the Zomba General Hospital.
Initially, theme services were provided by doctors alone. Shortly after the



- 13 -
program was initiated, nurse-midwives were trained in child spacing, and
currently they too provide service. The participation of midwives has
resulted in a steady rise in the number of acceptors. As a result, child
xpacing clinics are now held every working day rather than once a week. In
1984 the total number of attendances at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital's child
spacing clinic were 8,281, of which 2.138 were new client. Demand for
services at the hospitals in Lilongwe and Zomba has also been growing
steadily. Child spacing services are now available at all district
hospitals and preliminary indications are very encouraging. No estimates of
contraceptive prevalence rates are currently available. Training of
trainers and service providers has exceeded the targets. The MOH has begun
to use mass media to provide general information on family health.
Comunity seminars have not yet been organized but are planned during this
year. Contraceptives are available through public and private health
facilities. While no social marketing programs have yet been developed.
contraceptives are increasingly becoming available through pharmacies and a
range of other commercial channels.
2.32      Despite a promising start, the program is experiencing problems
which have important implications for future child spacing plans. They
relate to inadequacy of facilities, supplies and logistics constraints and
lack of a good reporting system. Lilongwe lacks facilitiea to provide child
spacing services; services Are provided at a run down clinic that is heavily
overcrowded. The rapid and unforeseen growth in demand has resulted in a
severe shortage of contraceptive supplies.   There is still limited
knowledge of potential demand and a lack of coordination between MOH
headquarters in Lilongwe. which orders commodities, and the CMS (CMS), which
handles customs clearance, storage, and distribution of contraceptives.
Demand has been difficult to estimate since child spacing services have only
recently become available and the MOH has no survey mechanism or other means
of obtaining necessary information. Forms for information on child spacing
users are now being designed. The program urgently needs a simple data
collection and record system supplemented by periodic sample surveys that
can be used by both Government and PHAM hospitals.
Primary Health Care (PHC)
2.33      Following naLional seminars in 1978 the MOH began implementation
of PHC on a pilot basis in three districts. The PHC approach adopted by
Malawi consists of training district area and health center staff in
concepts, community sensitization, and the establishment of village health
comittees (VHC). VHCs art responsible for initiating PHC activities at the
community level, PHC activities were introduced through the IDA-supported
first health project. Details of the program are available in the project
file. An evaluation of these activities undertaken in 1982 revealed a
number of weaknesses in the approach. In 1983 the program was revised
significantly and PHC activities were begun in a phased manner through the
first project. PHC activities were started in the three districts, Mzimba,
Dowa and Mwanze; at the same time the health infrastructure in these



- 14 -
districts was strengthened by upgrading six facilities to primary health
centers. In mid-1985, PHC activities were extended to iz more districts
(namely: Mulange. Dodma, Ntcheu, Karongea  Nsaage ad Chikvwa), where
supporting health infrastructure was adequate.
2.34      Soon thereafter, in October 1985. the MOB undertock a program
evaluation in the three districts in which PRC was first starteds it
concluded that PRC approach in Malawi is appropriately cautious Ma
education intensive. PRC activities are introduced into an area only after
VICa have been formed and trained. The evaluation found that VICs
interacted well with health vorkers in their respective areas. Health
workers visited VHCs on a sonthly basis and the quality of the supervision
was good; the provision of bicycles at the health center level considerably
facilitated supervisory activities. The NOR has concluded that one health
worker can effectively supervise 3 VTCs. Participation of communities was
good and an understanding and acceptance of the concept of self reliane was
developing. The evaluation concluded that the education intensive approach
adopted by Malawi is providing a solid base for nationwide expansions it
could not. however, assess the impact on health status because of the ahort
implementation period. Though the PHC program is making gains the
evaluation identified three major probles areas: scarce transport; pressure
of work; and the need for continuing education. Area team and VRCs felt
that there was poor supervision from the district level because district
teams lacked transport. In adlition to strengthening the nobility of
district team, the evaluatiot recommended continued use of bicycles and
motorcycles at the area and village levels to facilitate further the
implemnntation of field activities. Area teams were expected to cover large
area and hence the pressure of work was significant. Steps needtd to be
taken to reduce the work load of area teams through perhaps introduction of
extension assistants or part time workers at the village level. The
evaluation recomended strengthening continuing education program  for
district PHC teams, area teams, health workers and village health
comittees.
Community Health Sciences Unit (CRSU): Disease Control and Prevention
2.35      Health planning and evaluation is made difficult by the scarcity
of valid epidemiological data.   The capacity of the MOR to collect and
snalyse health status information is very limited. Various diseao control
progras  (bilharzia, tuberculosis. sexually transmitted diseases.
onchocerciasis, malaria, and leprosy control programs) historically have
been developed with little coordination between each other and with the
health system as a whole.   There are no laboratory facilities to provide
the support for field surveys and analyses. Diaposis and treat met cf
cses at health centers is unsatisfactory prim-rily due to inadequate
training of health staff and lack of equipment and supplies for field
surveys and analyses. Under the ongoing IDA-assisted health project, the
CHSU with the necessary laboratory services is being established. The cHsU
will also be used to provide services normally required of a national public
health laboratory which Malawi currently lacks.



- 15 -
2.36      The CESU is being established as part of the ten-year health plan.
The main goal is to improve managemnt and routine health information
system. coordinate and aonitor all disease control program activities and
promote applied research and the use of epidemiological skills and revive
euvirozmental health activities  Some of theme activities have already
started. e.g.. coordination and monitoring disease control program. The
construction of the CHSU is now under way and will be completed by nd
April. 1987.   Equipment and vehicles used by existing programs will be
absorbed by the unit and is being supplemented under the first health
project.
2.37      The controller (Community Health Services) will head CGSU which
would have two sections. A field activities section, headed by an
epidemiologist, would be responsible for malaria, diarrhoea,
achistosomiasis, iodine deficiency. onchocerciasis, Vitamin A deficiency.
sezually tranmitted diseases, leprosy, tuberculosis, envirommental health
program and epidemiology. This section will also be responsible for the
collection and evaluation of health statistics, providing the evaluated
output to the MOH Planning Unit. The pattologist of the Kasuzu Central
Hospital in Lilongwe would head the laboratory services section covering
microbiology, biochemistry and parasitology.
2.38      Although the staff of existing programs vill form part of the new
unit. training will be required for staff with skills not now available.
The unit head hs been identified, and a pathologist and a parasitologist
are available. An epidemiologist, sociologist, and biochemist are in
training and two laboratory technologists will need external training. The
six persons required to staff the field activities unit will be drawn from
the health inspectors, registered community health nurses, and clinical
officers, some of whom are now employed under ezisting disease control
program which will be subsumed under the CH8U. They will receive training
in Malawi in survey methodology from the epidemiologist recruited to assist
in PEC activities. Two years will be needed to establish the facilities and
train staff. from January. 1988, four consultants pravided by VHO with UNDP
funding, an epidemiologist, microbiologist. biochemist and laboratory
technologist, will be made available for two years to assist in establishing
the unit's work program and the smooth functioning of laboratory services.
Trom that date, the unit will be able to: (a) undertake epidemiological
studies and surveyas (b) coordinate, monitor and periodically evaluate all
disease control programs; and (c) coordinate ongoing research prograns in,
for example, malaria, diarrhoea, schistomomiasis, trypanosomiasis and
leprosy.
Health Expenditures and External Assistance
2.39      Government resources finance a large proportion of the MOH's
recurrent budget. The MOH's recurrent budget rose from K18.7 million in
1981/82 to n estimated K36.7 million in 1985/86 (Annex 1, Table 7). It
accounts for about 6.72 of the overall Government recurrent budget. About



- 16 -
1,82 or K19.3 million cam  from the Treaury.  The remaining 252 is expected
Iao come from fees and eaternal sources. Betveen 1981/82 and 1985/86 non-
t reasury support for the recurrent budget has ranged between 192 and 32S.
1lupport for drugs and medical personnel cover a large proportion of external
tupport. Annez 1. Table 8 shows that revenue from fees have not kept pace
with the growth of health expenditure. Between 1975/76 and 1984/85 revenue
from fees as a percent of gross MOH expenditure declined from 4.32 to 3.62.
Fee schedules have been revised, and it is expected thiat revenue from fees
would rise to 4.32 of gross MOR expenditure in 1985/86. Approximately 262
of the recurrent budget is spent on salaries and wages.
2,40      Health expenditures cannot be broken down easily by programs.
Arnex 1, Table 9 shows actual MOH expenditure by activity category in
1985/86. Eighty-one percent of the budget is expected to be spent on
hospitals and only 62 on preventive activitiez. Since hospitals do support
some preventive activities, it is probable that the percentage spent on
preventive activities is somewhat higher. Between 1976/77 and 1985/86 total
HOA expenditure has increased about four-fold with an average growth of
16 82 (Annex 1, Table 10).   When expenditures are adjusted for inflation.
the MOR's budget has still increased by about two-fold with an average
anuiual growth of 6.42. The MOH's share of the overall governaent recurrent
budget has ranged between 7.62 in 1975/76 and 6.72 in 1984/85. Despite this
growth, the NOH's recurrent budget position is difficult and expenditures
have consistently exceeded approved budgets by about 352. This has been
due, in part, to inadequate budgeting for pipeline projects and to lack of 8
coq)rehensive health plan and budgetary controls.  On a per capita basis,
hea;.th expenditures grew from K1.2 in 1975/76 to K4.3 in 1985/86 in current
prices and from K1.6 to K2.2 in constant prices.
2.41      The preparation of the national health plan (parss 2.13-2.14) has
resulted in a more realistic projection of incremental recurrent costs. For
the first five years of the plan costs are expected to be K4.0 million at
const:ant prices. Activities begiining in the first three years of the five-
year program would have incremntal recurrent costs of K2.5 million at
const ant prices. The MOR would need an additional K2.03 maillion in the
recurrent budget in order to adequately fund all ongoing and proposed
activities during this period. A significant increase in Treasury
allocations is unlikely during the plan's first five years. In view of the
diffie,ult financial situation, the MOH has explored carefully for sources of
finan,ing of bealth services. Fees charged for private patients and several
fee schedules for general patients were revised in 1984.  As a result fee
collec:tion is expected to rise from K570,000 in 1982/83 (3.32 of gross NOR
ezpenciture) to K1.6 million in 1985/86. or 4.32 of gross MOH expenditure.
It is projected that in 1990 income from fees will, rise to K5.3 million
(6.82 of MOH expenditure). Although important from the point of view of
increrised service use rationalization, this source will continue to be
limited. The other major area being pursued is improvement of the
operational efficiency of the MOh. With restructuring of the CMS and the
strengthening of the pharmaceutical sector, annual savings of K910,000 are
expected. Other cost saving measures, particularly with regard to houpital



- 17 -
management, *re being introduced. The MOB expects to save [1.2 million in
1986 rising to K4.3 million by 1990 through improved efficieucy of its
operations.
2.42      The approved capital budget of the MNO, as a percent of total
Government budget, increaced from about 1.22 in 1977/78 to 4.82 in 1985/86.
Actual expendituren in constcat price. per capita increased from [0.19 in
1977/78 to KO.56 in 1983/84. The capital budget of the MOH for 1985/86
is estimated to be [7.5 million. Of thic, K6.3 million is ezternally
financed (Annex 1. Table 11). Only 5l of the capital budget in financed
from Government resources. Alth4ugh under-utilization had been a prominent
feature of the capital budget in the post, the situation has improved in
recent years. From 1976/77 to 1983/84 under-implementation averaged 282
ranging from 42S in 1981/82 to 62 in 1983/84. Limitations of the recurrent
budget and delays in construction were the main constraints.
2.43      Income to PHAM is derived from Governmsent allocations. ftee  and
overseas donotions. MOE contributions account for about 35S, fees 34S and
overseas donations for about 302 of its income. The total Government
assistance to PRAM in 1984/85 was abwat 11 of MOR expenditure. In 1985/86
[2.5 million (or 112) of the MOR budget has been allocated. The MOR grant
supports: (a) cost of Malawian staff employed by PRAM, and (b) cost of drugs
for TB, leprocy, sexually transmitted diseases and bilharzia. In addition.
vaccines for immunization of the under-five population are provided free.
On the development side. PRAM units have been built with funds from
agricultural development projects and external financing.
C. Sectoral Issues
2.44      The implications of rapid population growth have been discussed
earlier (paras 2.05-2.06). The rate of growth would slow in primarily two
ways: (a) by mass emigration; or, (b) by a significant fall in fertility.
Large-scale emigration to neighboring countries, all of which are
experiencing high rates of population growth and economic problems
themselves, is no longer an option. Though reducing fertility is the only
practical and important solution, analysis of population problems extetds
beyond fertility or migration. Population programs must address issues such
as women's development and literacy, health and education.
2.45      Fertility reduction on the scale required to alleviate the
problems of population growth can only be achieved through undervtanding of
these problems by both the Government and the public, followed by the
development of appropriate population policies by the Government and their
implementaition through a multi-sectoral family health program. The
Governumvt does not support any direct reference to limiting family mire.
and informs fasilies to preserve the right to have as many children as they
desire. The present policy consists of providing child specing services to
those who want it, and establishing soxcial and educational programs wbich



- to -
will develop awareness of the problem of rapid population growth.
2.46      The Governmet has mae signif icant offorts to reduce the infant
and child mortality rates through increaed access to and improved quality
of health services. These efforts have been successful in parts of the
Southern Region where the DM has dropped to aroun  75.  In other parts of
the country, however, the 0Govrnmet's efforts have hd  limited impact.  To
bring down infant and child mortality, selective targeting of interventions
would have a significant impact. However, this approach has not been
followed and hs resulted in a lack of focus on priority activities. Many
family health and dis*ase control programs are still new and have not yet
covered the whole country. Health services are still not readily accessible
in many rural areas of the country. Shortages of drug supplies in remote
health facilities are ecomon. As mew health programs have been implemented
over the years. the saagmnot of the MOE has not evolved to respond to the
changing environments decision-making is still over-centralized. There is
little coordination among health progrm units at the central level, and
consequently the effeetiveness of service delivery suffers at operational
levels. The roles of the regional and district levels need to be more
clearly  efied.  linally, are   such as financial plannig, budgeting and
manpower  ca.ag"eat are poorly staffed and managed.  Rospital anagment is
weak.. The absenc  of trained bospital administrators and the sevre
overcrowding make hospitals inefficient institutions often providing bsic
services at higher unit costs.
2.47      Concerted attepts 'o addreuu  ItiAwil? minutririon problem  nve
not yet been made althogh nutrition activities are undertaken an part of
the MCI progrm.  In July 1986 the Gvenment held a seminar on the
nutrition problem  for Pricipal Secretaries.  A decision to establish a Food
and Nutrition Unit in the *P and D has been token. The unit is expocted to
coordinate end maintain an overview of activities related to food security
and nutritiou in Maiawi, estimte the nutrition effects of selected policies
ato programs, help develop early warning and nutritional surveillanee
system and determine cost-effective ways to reach nutrition goals.
2.48      Three major needs merge fron the proceeding sectoral analysis:
(a) development oad strengthening of a decentralized health systems (b)
institution buildinj fox health and populations and (c) expansion of
population activities. The development and strengthening of a decentralized
health systm (with a strong focus on pri$ary bealth care) would make basic
kealth care accessible in the more re ote rural areas.  This emphasis oe
village and comraity health given Malawi's stage of development would be
appropriate. It would also belp focus diseas prevention, nutrition and
family health activities. In the MM and the largse hospicals there is a
need for strngtbening organizational manageent, financial managemet and
controls (including efficiency improvements, cost saving aesures and cost
recovery), planning and budgeting and manpower developomnt. ectoral
planing through strongthening of the 3P and D is part of the institution
development objective. Information on child spacing would be disseminated
to a larger audience and would belp stimulate demoad for services.



- 19 -
D. Role of the ank
2.49      IDA ha  been involved in the bealth sector in Malawi since 1971
whe  the first Karongs Rral Developmt Project included a health
component. In all, ten agricultural projects have included health
components with e total investment of about US$4.5 million. Inputs have
ranged from enlarging and modernizing the Karonga Hospitals to the bilhar.ia
control programs. and the development of sub-centers and health posts. In
1980 IDA undertook a health sector review. In late 1982 the GOvernmeat
decided that, for purposes of facilitating child spacing on health grounds.
child spacing services would be available as an integral part of the MM
program. A child spacing component was therefore included in the flrst
health project. Since this very cautious beginning, child spacing services
have expanded steadily. and dmand has been rising. As evid-ace of the
changing official environment. the Government requested IDA to undertake a
population sector review in 1984. The results of the review were dilcucsed
at a seminar held in LilonVu. attended by senior Government officials.
2.50      The first MDA-assisted health project began in 1983 and focused on
health planning and financing. The project's objective is to make the
health system more responsive to the health needs of Malawians. Zach of the
five components deals with major pr',blems identified in the 1980 Health
Sector Review: a comprehensive National Health Plan; an improved ploaning.
monitoring and evaluation capacity, and improved systems of financial
accounting and health and service statistics; an epidemiological survey
capacity; an efficient, cost-effective system of pharoaceutical procurement
and distributioun the first phese of a natiaonl priary health care program;
and the introduction of child spacing activities. The National Health Plan
has been completed. A Co mnity Health Sciences Unit (CHSU) to improve
monitoring capacity, undertake epidemiological surveys and strengthen health
statistics collection is being established. Training of staff in
biochemistry, microbiology, and laboratory techbology has been delayed
because of difficulties in obtainiug admission into oversea universities.
Substantial progress ha been made in the pbhrmaceutical component. The CRS
was established as a distinct self-accounting unit with effect from April 1.
1984. Facilities for anufacture of drugs at Blantyre are in use. Most
prioary bhalth care activities have been completed abead of seb dule, and in
most caes agrod targets have been meoeded.  The sac situation prevails
with regard to child spacing activities under the project. The ongoing
project ba emphasised cost-effectiveness (through strengtbening the CXM),
cost recovery (with the introduction of fees for some categories of services
(pares. 2.39-41). strooger comnity involve mt (through the PlC program
(paras. 2.33-34). consolidation rather than expansion of bealtk facilities,
ad institution building (through strengthening the planning process and
establisbeet of improved systems of financial accounting). These
strategies are comprehensively reflected ln the National Health Pln (par"s.
2.13-2.14).  A review of financial system   bs been completed.
laplementation of rccinendations in this review will continue in the



- 20 -
proposed project. Despite these achievement the project has lagged behind
with regard to civil works and has been extended by two years.
S. The First Phase of the National Health Plan
2.51      Following approval of tho National Health Plan (1986-1995), the
KOH prepared a comprehensive implementation program for the period 1986-
1990.  The progran was appraised by MA in December 1985.  It wa  agreed
with the Government that a phaed approach would be followed. The first
phase will cover new activities initiated during the first thre years and
the second phase will include activities to be initiated during and beyond
the subsequent two years of the proposd progrm.  The investment costs for
three years activities would be US$ 43.0 million.   Out of this plan
activities amounting to US$ 22.9 million are to be finaneed by the proposed
IDA-financed project. Using tbh Bank's standard disbursement profile for
Malawi this works out to US$ 24.9 million. Details of the investment plan
are provided in Annex 1 Table 12. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that should the Borrower propose to make any investment in the
health sector which is not included in the first five years of the
Borrower's National Health Plan (1986-1995), such investment shall be made
by mutual agreement between the Borrower and the Association (par&. 7Olb).
2.52      During the first phase of the Plan the following components will
be implemented in the MOH: (a) increased coverage of peripheral and
district health services; (b) manpower development; (c) management and
support systems; (d) fasily bealth; (e) disease prevention; and (f)
nutrition activities. A sulti$ectoral family health program comprising the
following components will be implemented through other ministries: (a)
functional literacy and women's programs; (b) youth programs; (c)
informotion, education and communication activities; (d) census support; and
(e) establishment of a population planning capability.
2.53      The Governmnwt invited donors and IDA to participate in the
financing of the first phase of the Plan and organized a donor conference in
Malawi in September 1986. Donor agencies supported the principles and
strategy of the plan and a number of them indicated strong interest in
supporting specific activities or program.   inncing for over 502 of the
firot phase has been agreed to. UNICUP has formally agreed to finance the
ezpmaded program for imunization in its entirety. The Federal Republic of
Germay indicated strong interest in financing the Zomba General Hospitals
the Iachinga district hospital and the bilhar$ia control program. UNPA
indicated its interest in financing the component on the establishmont of a
population planning capability in the IP and D. USAID hs boen supporting
environmental bealth activities and has funding coiitted until 1989. For
its next round of assistance USAID ozpects to continue support for
envlronmentsl health and diarrheal disease progra s. USAID has beon
providing contraceptives required since the inception of the child spacing
program. A satisfactory system for ensuring continuity of adequate supplies
has boen developed. The complete range of contraceptive supplies (except



- 21 -
injectablec) is being provided by USAT. Injectables are provided by UNYPA.
Arrangements for the supply of contreceptives for the envisaged expansion of
the child spacing prograa are considerd satisfactory in the foreseeable
future. In addition to these free standing activities/components, EDY,
UNICU. UNFPA. KfW and the Government of the Netherlands are planning to
finance activities which are inter-linked and are described as part of the
proposed IDA-financed project.



- 22 -
III. THE PROJUCT
A. Objectives and Desmig
3.01      The proposed project is an integral part of the first phase of the
National Uealth Plan.  It will complemnt activities finaced separately by
donor agencies (per". 2.51-2.53). The objectives of the project are to:
(i) improve health status of f$milies particularly of nothers and
children through expansion and strengthening of ezisting health
programs 
($i) increase the availability and accessibility of a complete range of
child spacing services within the MOM's MCR program;
MOii)  strengthen the NOR's capacity to plan. mange  nd evaluate health
services in the framwork of a d centralized health system a nd
(iv) design and implement a multi-sectoral fanily health program
through other government agencies.
3.02      The proposed project is a logical follow-up to the IDA-assisted
first health project. It is designed to continue institution building
activities, to consolidate and ezpand PHC and cbild spacing begun under the
first project, and, to introduce fasily health activities through a multi-
secteoral approach. The project would support activitieos implemented through
the NOE and otber ministries. Through MOR it would finance activities at the
national, regional, district and peripheral levels. At the peripheral
level, it would improve coverage of health services. At the district
level, activities would comprise: MOR management and support system
strengthening, provision of surgical contraception services, and
strengthening of district level referral services. At the regional level,
activities would focus on management strengthening; at the national level
activities would includet management and support system strengthening,
manpower development, training and IIC in primary health core, child spacing
and nutrition programs, and urban family health services. To promote family
health multi-sectorally using other goavrnmnt ageicies, the project would
support IZC snd training activities in functional literacy, women's and
youth programs; and the development of INC campaigns on femily health.
3.03      The Government has established the following targets for the five-
year period:
(i) reduction of IMR from a national average of 151/1.000 to 100/1000
live births;
($i) reduction of 0-4 cumulative mortality from 330/1000 to 210/1000
live births;
($ii) reduction of maternal mortality from 16/1000 to 10/1000 births;
and
(iv) achieve a contraceptive prevalence rate of 102.



- 23 -
These targets are ambitious and the mortality reductions are unlikely to be
achieved in the short space of 5 years. although substantial progress should
be possible.   onitoring and evaluation studies are plannd (see below
pars. 5.07 and 5.08).
S. Suomary Description
3.04      The project, designed to be impleaented over a three-year period
starting April 1, 1987. eonsists of two parts: Part A. to be implemented by
the MM, and Part B, which comprises multi-sectoral family health activities
to be impleeonted by various government agencies and coordinated by BP and
D.
3.05      Part A includes the following three components:
(a)  Primary Realth Care (US$7.6-)1,  The expansion of the primry
health care program from nine districts at present to cover six
more districts including training, provision of equipment and
supplies for village health comittee; construction. furnishing
and equipping of 19 new health ceters and upgrading of six
existing health sub-ceoters; and replacement of one mzisting
district hospital.
(b)  HMaaemnt, Manpower and Support Systms (U!43.3a).  The
strengthening of the management of NOM through technical
assistance, workshops and training at all levels of the health
system; the replacment of an existing enrolled nurses school;
construction, furnishing and equipping of three regional level
training facilities, and of pharmaceutical depots at eight
district hospitals; equipping the NOR and major hospitals with
computers for budget management; equipping of a quality control
laboratory; baseline, monitoring and evaluation studies, and a
study of the potential of health insurance.
tc) Family Health (US$5.8a). Strengthening the MCR program through
tecbnical assistance, training, provision of Information.
Iducation a*d Comunications (IZC) vaterials, vehicles and
equipment. Strengthening of the child spacing program by
orienting all health staff and training 900 service providers,
construction of surgical contraception units at seven district
hospitals, construction, equipping and furnishing of three new
urban health centers and replacing a family health unit in
Lilongwe. Strengthening nutrition activities in the MOR through
technical assistance, development of ric materials and training
bealth workers.
(d) Project Management for Part A (US$1.5n). Salaries of a project
coordinator, technical advisor, clerk of works, procurement
officer, sceountant, support staff of administrative assistants
1    Costs excluding contingencies.



- 24 -
and secretaries, and office equipment and supplies; and
preparation of a third project.
3.06      Part B includes the following three components:
(a) Functional Literacy. Nutrition and Women's Proutrms (US$3.3m).
Under the Ministry of Community Services (MOCS), introduction of
fanily health topics into ongoing functional literacy and women's
prograas and expansion of these prograns to the Northern Region;
construction, equipment and furnishing of a regional training
center, production of IEC materials and overseas and local
training; the establishment of nutrition activities in the MOCS
through training women's groups and community development
assistants (CDAs), strengthening nutrition-related activities
through surveillance, and nutrition education, and construction of
fish ponds.
(b)  Youth Programs (US$0.4.).  Under the Departsent of Youth.
introduction of faaily health aimed at young audiences through
training, educational programs, equipment. IEC materials and
innovative activities.
(c) Information, Education and Communicgtion (US$0.6a). Development
of notionvide IEC programs by the Information Department through
production of IEC materials, overseas training and surveys and
evaluation activities.
C. Detailed Description
Part A
Primary Health Care
3.07      This component would aim at increasing coverage of peripheral
health services and strengthening district health services. The project
would support the expansion of the PHC program from nine districts at
present to 15 districts. The pilot PHC approach dteveloped and tested partly
under the MDA-supported first bealth project and adopted by Malaiw has been
evaluated (parsa. 2.33-2.34) and, with suitable modifications, will be
expanded in this second phase to cover six more districts. Training Village
Health Committees (VHC) and bealth staff, provision of equipment and
supplies, increased supervision by health staff, and establishment of a
referral network are the elements of Malawi's PHC program. Village Health
Committees (VHC) will continue to undertake activities in sanitation and
water supply, maternal and child core and treatuent of common diseases. In
addition, the MOB has recently decided to provide child spacing services
through VHCs.
3.08      The project would support training activities for V8Cs and health
staff including workshops and seminars for senior district officers, *mebers
of District Development Committees (DDC). district and area PHC tea" members
a*d TICs annually. A sajor effort would be initiated through the project to



- 25 -
have refresher training for VHCa and health staff on a regular basis.
Details of training activities are presented in Annez 1, Table 14. The
project would also aupport visits by health workers from project area to
study the success and difficulties being faced in the implementation of PHC
in other areas. Area level PHC staff would visit other areas within the
same district (three visits per district annually). District level PHC
staff would visit other districts where PEC activities are being isplemented
(one visit in each region annually). Such training activities will be taken
up in two districts every year and thus in siz districts during the project
period. In addition, intensive retraining is proposed for three of the
first phase districts over the project period; each year. based on an
evaluation of the PHC program, out of the nine districts in the first phase.
one district will be selected for retraining.  Training activities for PHC
were first developed under the IDA-supported first health project.
Following an evaluation, these courees have been suitably modified. The
course content is appropriate, and training methods are considered
effective. Details of the training activities to be undertaken under the
project are available in the project file. Also, the project would finance
about 400 drug kits for VHCs, at the rate of one kit per VHC annually. To
improve the ability of health staff to supervise VHCs the project would
provide 48 motorcycles and 300 bicycles, financed in parallel by UNICEF.
3.09      In each area where the PHC program is implesented a health center
capable of providing support for village level activities and for acting as
a referral facility is required. Six ezisting health sub-centers need
upgrading to health centers. Nineteen new health centers also need to be
built during the project period. Nine of these centers are to be located in
the six districts (namely Nkhata bay, Lilongwe. Chiradxulu, Rumphi, Kasungu
and Kangochi) where the program is being extended into its second phase.
The other ten centers are to be located in the nine first phase districts
(namly Mzimba, Dowa, M?anza, Mulanje, Dedza, Ntcheu, Karonga, Chikwawa and
Nsanje; see map for details). The need in the first phase area is to
consolidate the health infrastructure, based upon the experience of the last
few years of the PHC program. Each health center of approimately 400m2
would serve 10,000 persons. In each new center the project would finance
three houses for two enrolled nurses and one medical assistant, and one
bouse would be added at each upgraded health center. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from the Government that the health centers, once
completed, would be adequately staffed by at least one medical assistant and
two enrolled nurses (par&. 7.01 c).
3.10      Health centers refer patients to district bospitals.  In Malawi, a
number of district hospitals function in inadequate, old buildings. Bed
occupancy rates, however, are very high (Annex 1, Table 3). Overcrowding is
comon.  With the implementation of PEC prograas and the introduction of
child spacing services at the district level and below, the role of the
district hospital hc become even more crucial.  The project would support
the replacement of one existing 102 bed hospital at Mzimba.  The new
facility with a total area of about 4500W 2 would have 40 additional beds and
space for surgical contraception. The hospital is now heavily utilized and
its current bed strength is inadequate for the demand it faces. Preliminary
drawings have been reviewed by IDA and recomendations for nodifications
have been made (par&. 5.01). In addition to replacement of the existing



- 26 -
hospital, provision is made for 20 staff houses for key staff who need to
live near the hospitals. Mzimba hospital and housing would be constructed
on a nw site which has been acquired. The existing facility would be
turntd over to the 'istrict authorities. The hospital would be provided
with two ambulances and one station wagon.
Management, Manpower and Support Systems
3.11      Management.  This component would aim at strengthening the
managesent of health services at the national, regional, and district levels
by restructuring the MOH and improving systems and procedures. At the
natiopal level a study of the MOH by the Malawi Civil Service Review
Commission has revealed the need to revise the organizational structure to
make it more responsive to the changing needs of the health sector (paras.
2.21-2.22). Restructuring of the MOH headquarters would require functional
realigmnent of departments, creation of a manpower coordination unit, and
review of the layers of authority in the administrative branch (Chart 2). A
time bound plan for reorganization of the MOH is being developed and will be
adopted by the Fall of 1987 (para. 2.22).
3.12      Detailed management studies of each unit of the health care
delivery system have been completed by the Malawi Civil Service Review
Comission. Additional studies are being undertaken by the MOH with funding
from the first IDA-supported health project. The project would continue the
process of strengthening the management of MOH by developing unit and job
descriptions, and a short-term consultant would be provided to assist with
these studies. After finalizing unit and job functions, national, regional.
and district workshops would be held to train health staff in management and
new procedures. A national five-day workshop for 25 unit heads and program
smangers would take place annually. A four-month consultancy would be
provided to develop curricula and plan the seminars. The project would also
finance three one-month study tours to neighboring countries for senior and
middle-level MOH officials annually.
3.13      The project would finance the establishment of a regional health
team in each of the country's three regions, which would back up and
supervise the health services of the region. Each regional health team
would comprise a Regional Health Officer (team leader), a regional nursing
officer, a regional public health nurse, and a regional public health
inspector. The project would finance three regional health officers and
three regional nursing officers, three drivers, and would provide three
vehicles (one per regional health team). During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that posts of three regional health
officers and three regional nursing officers would be created and filled by
October 1, 1987 (para. 7.01 d).
3.14      A major area of concern is the management and administration of
hospitals. Detailed studies of the two central hospitals have been carried
out by consultants financed under the first IDA-supported health project and
recommendations have been made to improve overall efficiency. According to
these studies up to 40t of non-personnel costs at the hospitals could be
saved through better management. The project would support annual workshops
in hospital management and administration for all hospital secretaries and



- 27 -
administrators in Malawi. During negotiations the Government submitted an
implementation plan for cost reduction measures satisfactory to IDA. The
Government has agreed: (a) to establish within MOH, not later than July 31.
1987, a committee with the Deputy Secretary of the MOH as chairman with
representatives from the Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital. the Kamuzu
Central Hospital and the Zomba General Hospital to monitor the
implementation of cost reduction measures; (b) to implement cost reduction
measures at MOH and at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital by December 31. 1987;
(c) to submit to IDA by March 31. 1988 for its review and comments, an
evaluation of the cost reduction measures implemented by MOH; (d) to
implement cost reduction measures at the Kamuzu Central Hospital and the
Zomba General Hospital by April 30, 1988 and at all district hospitals by
December 31. 19881 and (e) to decentralize finance and accounting functions
of the three major hospitals from MOH to the Queen Elizabeth Central
Hospital, the Kaauzu Central Hospital and the Zomba General Hospital by not
later than April 30, 1988 (para. 7.01 e).
3.15      The Planning Unit was expanded and six new posts were established
through the first IDA-assisted project. With the development of a National
Health Plan (para. 2.13) and training in planning of senior Planning Unit
officials, the MOH has developed an increased ability to plan and evaluate
programs. The Planning Unit has evolved into an effective organization.
The project would support the MOH's efforts to further improve its planning
capability, through increased emphasis on decentralization of the MOH and
by strengthening district level planning capability. A senior
internationally recruited health planner was appointed in 1986 and has begun
training district level staff. The project will provide for one long-term
and one short-term training course in health planning and one five-day
workshop annually for 20 senior officials to assess implementation of the
plan and to recommend modifications in strategy. A study of the impact of
fees charged on utilization of services and on the potential for health
insurance would be undertaken by the Planning Unit with assistance of a
short-term consultant.
3.16      The project would finance an expenditure control accountant at the
central budget section, three regional level accountants and one accountant
at each of the three main hospitals. Also four computers needed to improve
financial accounting would be financed (one computer for the MOH
headquarters and the remaining three for the main hospitals in Blantyre.
Lilongwe and Zomba). During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that the positions of one expenditure control accountant at the
MOE, three regional accountants, and one accountant at each of the major
three hospitals would be filled by October 1, 1987; in order to carry out
cost reduction measures at district-level hospitals, the Government has
provided assurances that it would hire assistant accountants for each of the
21 district hospitals by August 31, 1988 (para. 7.01 f).
3.17      Manpower.  The project would provide for: (a) strengthening the
capacity of the MOH to train enrolled nurses; (b) establishing an in-service
training capacity; and (c) developing MOH's capability to undertake manpower
planning and analysis. Project assistance would include construction,
furnishing and equipping of one school for enrolled nurses, hostel and



- 28 -
warden's flat at Zomba, with a capacity for 140 students (about 4000m2), to
be built near the Zomba General Hospital at a mite already acquired. IDA
has reviewed sketch drawings and suggested modifications (para. 5.01). The
project would improve in-service training by MOR of about 1.000 health
workers annually by financing construction, furnishing and equipping of
three regional level training facilities (each of about 400sq.m area and
including one house for the resident caretaker). Courses to be offered at
these facilities are described under the respective MOH programs.
Utilization rates are expected to be 952 during the first three years and
852 in subsequent years. Sites have been identified and are being acquired.
Sketch drawings have been reviewed and considered satisfactory. To ensure
satisfactory scheduling of training, the appointment of a Training Officer
would be essential. The project would also finance the overseas training of
a middle level officer in manpower planning for one year. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that a Training
Officer would be appointed by September 1. 1987, to coordinate in-service
training activities; and that in-service training plans for the GOM fiscal
year beginning April 1988 would be submitted to IDA for review and comment
by December 31. 1987. with annual plans for succeeding fiscal years
submitted by December 31 of the previous year (par. 7.01 g).
3.18      Support Systems.  With the establishment of a Community Health
Sciences Unt in 1984 the MOH began to develop a capacity to undertake
survey and evaluation activities. The project would support the MOH's
efforts to further strengthen its monitoring and evaluation capability. A
baseline health status and utilization study would be undertaken in the
first year of the project, with a survey planned in the third yea-. The
project would provide a short-term consultant for one month in the first and
third years to assist with study design and field work. In addition, there
would be annual impact studies of specific programs.
3.19      Efforts to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the
pharmaceutical system were begun in 1983 (para. 2.23). The MOH proposes to
further strengthen the pharmaceutical system by decentralization down to the
district level. The project would finance the renovation of pharmaceutical
depots at eight district hospitals including furniture and equipment, and
the establishment of a quality control laboratory. Through 28 man-months of
consultant services the project would support the drafting of drug
legislation, review production procedures at CMS, review quality control
procedures and computerize CMS operations. There would be two seminars of
one-week duration for 20 pharmacy assistants in the scope and functions of
the revised CMS and two five-day annual seminars each for 30 drug pre-
scribers. The project would also finance 25-1/2 months of overseas
training in drug inspection, drug administration, quality control and drug
manufacture.
Family Health
3.20      This component would include:  (a) maternal and child health
(antenatal, natal and postnatal services, and health services for under
fives); (b) child spacing; and (c) nutrition.
3.21      MCH.  The progrum is hampered by poor and inadequate transport,
lack of IEC materials and shortage of drugs, and has weak postnatal services



- 29 -
(part. 2.29). The project would finance the replacement of 27 vehicles for
the regions and districts, for service supervision and for the provision of
mobile services. Maintenance facilities at the regional and district levels
are considered satisfactory. Two boats to provide MCH services to island
and lakeshore communities would be financed. The project include one month
consultancy for the development of an integrated course in family health for
200 health workers annually; annual in-service training in priority diseases
(diarrhea, malaria, respiratory illness, measles, and nutritional
deficiency) for 900 health workers; an MCH manual for use by health workers
in MOH and PHAM units; printing of IEC and training materials developed for
the MCH program; and annual supplies of drugs for 1.100 MCH centers and 639
antenatal clinics. Through the proposed training activities emphasis would
be placed on the development of postnatal services (pars. 3.22). The
proposed content of courses has been reviewed by IDA and is considered
appropriate. Details of the training activities are available in the
project file.
3.22      Child Spacing.  The enhanced receptivity towards child spacing has
led MOR to increase the range of services offered and to make services
available more widely (paras. 2.30-2.32). The project would assist in
development of surgical contraception services and expansion of urban and
rural family health services by training of health staff. TBAs and VHCs in
child spacing and printing of IEC materials for child spacing. The project
would finance the building, furnishing and equipping surgical contraception
units at seven district hospitals. Designs for the units have been approved
by IDA and the list of furniture ard equipment finalized. The project would
provide a one month consultancy to review training and quality control
plans. With increasing demand for child spacing services in urban areas
there is a need to provide adequate facilities (pars. 2.32). The project
would finance construction, furnishing and equipping of an urban family
health unit in Lilongwe, three health centers in Blbntyre and Lilongwe, and
upgrading two existing health centers in Blantyre and Lilongwe. Designs
have been reviewed and modifications suggested for the family health unit in
Lilongwe (para. 5.01). The project would finance the training in child
spacing of 20 trainers, 10 tutors, 675 nurse midwives and enrolled nurses,
225 clinical officers and medical assistants; the orientation of 1,440
health personnel and 1,500 DDCs and VHC members in child spacing. These
training activities were introduced initially under the first IDA-supported
health project, and are considered appropriate. Details of the training
activities are available in the project file. The importance of the
postnatal period both for better mother and child care and for provision of
child spacing services would be emphasized in these courses (para. 3.21).
IEC materials would be financed by the project as would the appointment of
six clinical officers and 16 enrolled nurses for the urban family health
clinics. During negotiations assurances were obtained that six clinical
officers and 16 enrolled nurses would be appointed to the urban clinics once
completed (para. 7.01 h).
3.23      TBAs would be trained in child spacing under the project.  Four
courses, each for 15 TBA trainers, would be undertaken during the first two
years of the project.  (A TBA trainer is an enrolled nurse posted at a
health center and trains about five TBAs in her area annually.)  About 250
TBAs would be trained per year in child spacing.



- 30 -
3.24      Nutrition.  New initiatives in nutrition are being proposed by the
MOH with the participation of the MOCS to deal with the problem of
malnutrition and the consequent impact on infant and child mortality. The
project would promote nutrition education through MOM and growth
surveillance at health clinics. These activities would be undertaken in
conjunction with the MOCS (para. 3.27). The project would include the
development and production of flip charts, posters and post literacy
booklets for use by the MOH through health clinics. Health workers would be
trainied in nutrition as part of the family health training program (para.
3.26). To develop nutrition activities further, particularly with the EP
and D, the project will provide two man-months of consultancy.
Proiect Management
3.25      The project would provide for a project coordinator, technical
advisor, clerk of works, procurement officer, accountant, support staff of
administrative assistants and secretaries, and office equipment, supplies
and a vehicle. Funds for the preparation of a third project would also be
provided. The project coordinator would report directly to the Chief of
Health Services, MOH. A project coordinator has been appointed under terms
of reference approved by IDA.
Part B
3.26      Part B of the project would finance family health activities to be
undertaken by government agencies other than the MOH, including nutrition
activities to be undertaken by MOCS, complementary to the nutrition
activities to be undertaken by MOH (para. 3.24). These activities would be
coordinated by the EP and D.
Functional Literacy, Nutrition and Women's Programs
3.27      The 1977 Population Census revealed that 82.2% of the population
of all ages was still illiterate. Of these, 77.5% were in the economically
productive age of 15 and above. The widespread illiteracy in rural areas
has constituted one of the major limitations in enhancing the pace of rural
development. The Government has therefore set the target of achieving two
million literate by 1990. The strategy is being carried out largely through
adult literacy classes held at the various functional literacy centers. The
program is well managed, and evaluations have shown that it is effective.
However, up to now, this program has not dealt directly with matters of
population education or family health. Through the Functional Literacy
component the proposed project would introduce family health into the
curricula and would finance designs and production of written/pictorial
materials.
3.28      This component would aim at rapid dissemination of messages
regarding family health to both the rural and urban population. Though
child spacing topics would have priority, nutrition and maternal and child
health services would also be covered. Through this approach, it is



- 31 -
ezpected that the demand for child spacing and family health services would
be stimulated. tll adult literacy centers would receive information
relating to family health. The target audience will be the large and
growing number of illiterates, both men and women, field workers and youth.
in both urban and rural areas. Materials to be produced would include
literacy booklets, family health booklets, posters, and flip charts. The
MOH would review all materials produced by the MOCS. which has the
capability to undertake these tasks. Training activities under the project
would include: courses on family health for Members of Parliament (MPH),
Home Craft Workers (HCWs) and their supervisors the Community Development
Assistants (CDAs). The basic function of the latter two cadres is the
promotion of women's welfare; they are controlled by MOCS. Refresher
courses on family health would be held for HCWs, local women's leaders,
functional literacy educators and literacy supervisors. Details of these
courses are presented in Annex I, Table 14. The project would finance the
construction, furnishing and equipping of a training center for the Northern
Region to enable the courses discussed above to be carried out regionally.
This center would serve the needs of the MOCS. The project would finance 10
study tours of one-month duration by planners and program managers from MOCS
to study the operational aspects of similar successful programs in adult
functional literacy and women's activities in neighboring developing be
undertaken through MOCS: training women's groups to undertake nutrition
surveillance and related nutrition education and introduction of fish ponds
to provide protein for mothers and children at the village level. The
project would finance the development and production of IEC materials,
training CDAs and the construction of fish ponds iD 150 village communities.
Fish froa the ponds would provide much needed protein for mothers and
children. Technical assistance for construction and maintaining the fish
ponds would be pro-vided by the Department of Fisheries, which has had
considerable success in smi 1 scale fish farming in Southern Malawi. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that the MOM would
establish by September 1, 1987 a health information, education and
comMunLation review committee to approve IEC measages prepared by non-MOR
agencies chaired. by the Chief of Health Services with members fro* the
Ministries of Health and Community Services end the Secretary for Youth and
the Malawi Pioneers (pars. 7.01 i).
Youth Programs
3.29      Youth between 13 to 19 years of age are an important target group
for family health education activities. The Malawi Young Pioneers (MP?)
program trains yout! in this age group in a number of activities both
technical and non-technical. However, issues related to tamily health
education are not included. Malawi youth in this age group are not
adequately provided with information needed for their fertility regulation.
This contributes to unplanned pregnancies and very often an increase in the
dropout rate from school.
3.30      The objectives of the youth program component would be to:
provide MYP matron/instructors/instructresses with knowledge related to
family health education, to be in turn imparted to MYP youth; provide female
MYP graduates with knowledge related to family health education so as to
prepare them for responsible adulthood; and equip MYP graduates with



- 32 -
sufficient knowledge and skills that will enable them to informally educcte
families and fellow youth in their respective communities.
3.31      The project would provide training programs in family health for
100 MYP matrons, instructors and instructresses. basic training courses for
female adolescents (13-19) and young women (20 and over). Details of the
training activities are presented in Aunsx 1 Table 14. The project would
also include the construction of 10 simple shelters attached to existing
dispenaaries to be used by MYP volunteers to educate women coming to the
dispensaries. The project would support the provision of one sewing sachine
to each of the 49 MYP youth clubs and one fish pond in each of the sevERn MYP
bases in the country for demonstration of potential income generating
activities to village comunitieu. The introduction of income jeneratiug
activities, particularly to women, has been demonstrated to reduce
morbidity, mortality and fertility.
Information, Education and Communication
3.32      The objectives of the ISC component would be to enhance
receptivity among the people of Malawi to the concept of fasily health and
to update knowledge regarding family health among service providers. The
primary target audience would be: the rural population, men, women and
youth; local leaders and traditional authorities; urban population, men and
women and youth; and health service providers.
3.33      The IEC component would be primarilv concerned with the expanded
use of ass *edia in support of fsaily health activities and bolding
training/refresher workshops to further sensitize existing health mervice
providers and others associated with the content of media messages and
multi-media use. The activities would be implemented by the Information
Department, Office of the President and Cabinet. The project would enable
widespread use of the mass media through introduction of family health
mesoages into the Chichewa paper, Bona Lathu, to reach a monthly audience of
ebout 500,000; family health boards on long distance buses; family health
labels on match boxes; radio programs on family health; and production of
two 20 minute films annually. The project would include overleas training
of three Infornation Department staff in graphics, audio-visual techniques
and development c%mmunications. The MOR would review the content of fasily
health messages developed for use by other ministries (pars. 7.01h).



- 33 -
IV. PROJICT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
4.01                Although the project has been designed to be impleewnted over a
three-year period, it has been cated over a five-year period, to have a
disbursement profile corresponding to the standard profile for Malawi.
Total costs of the proposed project are estimated at K56.1 million (US$24.9
sillion equivalent). Base costs are calculated at US$22.5 million
equivalent (902) and contingencies .t US$2.4 million equivalent (102).
foreign exchange costs account for US$11.6 million or 47Z of total project
costs. Taxes and duties have been calculated at US$0.4 million for civil
works, design fees, furniture, materials, equipment and vehicles. Projeet
costs by expenditure category are summarized in Table I below, and details
are provided in Annex 3. Capital costs for civil woris account for 432 of
beae costs; furniture, equipment, vehicles, supplies and saterials for 22Z;
monitoring and research activities 1; technical assistance for 72; training
for 152; and incremn tal recurrent costs (salaries and allowances, building.
equipment and vebicle operation and maintenance) for 92.
atoe   1:  ProJoct Coot. by Expenditure Cataliry
., 411
~SE FIWILY "XIN ""CT
SIT  ACfOiL      MT    MalC
a.il C.r , or     ,                             (u 459  OR,
;-~~~~~~~~ ;.;.
3 .  .3"s  9.,.                            : For,na.l  S.,,
* J       j.4iIe,z   'AL,   E^e*    Sar    =.id  su'Iak   '4ti,d   E.cftMi*  3.411
......     ..;.,; .     ... ..  ....   .   ............,,;..---........     .. . . .
..A$14EN1 C05TS
.. ..... .....   *@6....
A. CIVIL  MS                            .'1'.      1 '743.0 19,442,6   40     43  5.4.S  ;31..5  9.7:;  
S. FUM3T                                 302 3   405.0  4,217:3         3            402    :4: 5   ,3.*   ;        i      7
M A0TERIALS                             Il ?  .   ,*  5.948.           '0     43      M9   2 '@.S  ''070.3 I               ''
D ENUPIM                                  47I 1,3  ,39.3 I 334 ,       99      3       8.    844,7   a?3.         n
E.  4AICLS                                13.9 i.394.3 1-     .:               3       ,.9 01         *04. i
r. TEhlEliL WSIsTU 3y ,1:9.1 379.1                                     0                 - 10379,. W              4Mt
6. KOIS FEES                            1,217.3            1,17.0              1      1 .43.          043.'                3
.. 4131135 , l      J  . EJIllIlR         47.E        -   4754          -            237.7            :3
i. ATIVITIES                                          - *   71           -             4.4              4.0
TRAWN                               .:,14.: 5     -  0142.1               14  3.071.4           3.80,1.4
a, Mfl1W   1040IMIN                         -   453.3   453.3        4O4      4         -   2.A      2i.'       :         :
Toll INKSM!T WiATS                        A,..2 M13.6 41,043.i           4       71 II,I3.I  ..3'  20,30,            4,    '3
z,ca4  ~.t4rwud,,,   s,434.2  1,510.3 7'4.5                           51             '11.    7S3.: :Z413.3
Price Cobt&t swn 43743.2  3W .1 .3111.0                               44      33    414.'   341.7   '43.4         4.
........  ..... ... .  _......    ... .... .    .... ... _...... ..   .... ...... ....... .. .. .... ...    .. .... ....
?@UI ligL.lilS CWITIES                   7440.5 23,171.1 50,539 3       44    111  12,270.t 10,471,  22742.3       4 
,,,,,,,,,,......   ........   .........   ......    ........  .,......    ,........   ...........,.i
43 410W  colS
. ....... . . _...
A. IS.WIE                             1.44.'         -   .4444.               3    723,2        - '23.
I.,   I  9X t I   2Ii   e tliTtiw       aA.  1,i.         322.:       40      3    154.0   40'.4   'w1           10       ;
C. lSIl M1U?Ul O                         44.4   334.)   499,7         Z       0      20.2    7.,      94         i        :
S. N        L8Z4SIN                     its"    is        12 f iln,                         3W.2  4t591          'S
..     .... ....  ...._...   .  ...  ..  ._... .._.    _ .... .. .._ ..... ....  ...  .    ..  ...............  .......
Toel   mt   C1tS                          I'M.$ 24.9 4.t  177'           52          '15.41-0'53.5  2,043.T         5I
P9.s,e,4 C.tier_4.1                       47 4    64.7   Si, I         K               1.'    34.4    43.1         0       ;
Fn C.1&r_ Hin                            493.3 1   42.9  1,056.'      53       2      52.13    59,4   il:.8       53       o
Ytill SS.0C51ttl1E      IS                249,2.0  2-''.3  5-2333,       52      12  14045.3  I,147.2  .:91,         S; 5
.1.3  .LMS    TITS                        24257.0                   ......2.. 4309  4 4 .. . 2. 21.3.0.424,3 22 .4... ...    .W
'fewat,c Un   -<in3. 1-45   3                         ,0  3,032.4       52         '26eO      'Ps.3  :4514.3       5S
Prien C.t0 _ema ,                       $,442.0  3-,95.7  7,M.'         4?     I      467.0   403 ,    I'S,: I      '       4
l1,4A  ISfT CWITS                         2q,932.* 24,447.3 540-9.1       47    :24  1-3Zl,3 1-,11.7  4,14.94,        4*    il;
-3 lff*   -A...a           8..33..8  *lS. .................................~



- 34 -
4.02      Project costs have been estimated at December 1965 prices updated
to January 1987 price.  Civil works costs have been estimated on the bsis
of the value of current Ministry of Works and Supplies contracts for
comparable buildings whether locally or ezternally financed. The designs
are considered to be appropriate and cost effective. Purniture *ad
equipmant lists hve been dram up.   Project costs also include provision
for a total of 41 four-wheel drive vehicloe, at a unit cost of about
US$14,800 (on CIY basis) and other vehicles (48 motorcycles. 300 bicycles. 2
boats) totalling about US$184,200; 144 mths of overseas training, at an
average monthly cost of about US$2,500; 92.5 months of long-term foreign
technical "aistance sad 23 moths of foreign short-term technical
assistance. Incremetal salaries, local training costs and operational and
maintenance ezpenses are bsed on current Governmt scales and rates.
4.03      The total project costs include Us$2.4 sillion equivalent for
contingeniees. Physical contingencies have been included at 10 for civil
works and 102 for vehilels ad equipment, and comprise US$1.5 million
equivalent (72 of base costs). The following price contintgecies have been
included: (i) on foreign exchange ezpenditures. 122 in 1966, 32 in 1987, 12
in 1988, 1S in 1989s 12 in 1990,; 3.52 in 1991; and 3.5 in 1992, and (ii)
on local cost expenditures, 132 in 1986, 102 in 1987, 82 in 1988, am 62 in
1989 sad 6S every year thereafter. Price contingencies account for US$0.9
million equivalent or 42 of base costs. It is expected that the exchane
rate will continue to be adjusted to reflect the difference between dowstic
and international inflation.
4.04      The foreign exchange component of US$11.6 million equivalent is
based on estimates of 4O0 for civil works; 382 for furniture; 992 for
equipment; 1002 for technical assistance; and 1002 for overse" training ad
study tours. The incremental recurrent costs involving foreign exchange
(102 of foretign exchange) mainly cover equipment and building maintenance
and vehicle operation an maintenance.
4.05      Project costs by functional component are shown in Table 2.
Primary bealth care would absorb 342 of base costs; management and manpower
developsent and support systems 1S5  fouily healtb program  262; project
managemeat 72; functional literacy and women's programs 152; youth progras
22S and ISC activities 32.



- 35 -
KCUSE FUNILY "ELTN PROJECT
Table 2: Proiect Costs by Functional Component
(Loxal Cutrwe    'M00                                (U31 '000)
Totld                                          TuW1
. Foreign  lse                                 : Foreiv, Iai.
Local  Foreign   Totl  Exchuw         Costs   Local  Fcdeif.  T%tal  Exchmnge   Coit.
as5::: azss:gzza:zz :az  z:z_::::s :ass:aat  *,::s :        :     :         =             --
A. PR1VRI EALTH Ca
1. PRIWY HEALTH CAE                                         Ue.3    138.4    974.7         35       ^      318.1    1i9.^    487.3        35        2
2. EXTENSIN OF ILAtN EMIMCS                              5.152.4  3.754.9  G9p97.4         42      20   2,576.2  1,677.5  4,453.7         42       ^0
3. SKETITNENIE V  THE NIPIML SYITER                     31075.6  2P200.7  5.276,3          42       12  I1537.8  1,100.4  2e638.2         42       12
ib-Total P7IIY IMTN CAE                                     tJ64.3  60.214.1 15M158.4         42       34   4P432.2  3r147.0  7,579.2         4:      34
3. NAuAENi t IVWa -               31     StITERS
1. NURS3I  EIICATION                                     1,225.6    992.7  2,118.3         42       5      e12.6    446,4  1;059.1        42        5
. ISEIEICE ThAINIS                                        487.3   340.9    828.2          41       2     .43.7    170.4    414.1         41       2
3. ESTMLINT OF Ml'EI  CAlPCTY                                  -      3i.4     36.4       100       0          -     10.2     16.;        100       5
4. IWPEEN   OF NIMENT SYSTEllt
UWISION AN  KRIEL                                         2.5   243.5    336.0          72        1      4e.3   121.,   1e8.0           72       1
5. WETH .N lABEIe                                           39.8      85,9    1.5 I        68        0      19.9     42.9     62.9         as       0
6. FIMIlAL 71_11I1                                         54.6    179.0    765.6           3      :       273.4     89.5   382.9
7. WEMNTH   S  MATN  1       _IEET INfOWAT1ION             261.8      40.4    302.2         13       1     133.9    :0.,    151.1          13       1
91. 31RU  PUCTION   S YPY                                  S19.9  1I148.8  1o667.7          69       4     259.4   574.4    e3;.c          .9       4
9S  INTIIAUTI1 OF SER9ICES AT ESIULL LEWEL                 315.5    156.9    472.4         32        1     157.S     78.5    : c           33       1
Sb-loatl  1     1 ENEiT  I NMI    AS SOUFT SYSTERS          3,526.2  3,124.4  6,652.7         47       15   1.764.1  1.5422  3,326.3          4,      15
C. FAILY HEALTH
1. NTERJL MD CHILD "iLTN                                   817.5  20793.0  3,610.5         77       6      408.6  1,396.5  1,905.3        ,,        8
2. CHILD SPACIN6                                         4.909.4  2,492.7  7,401.1         34       16   :o454.2  1.:46.4  3700.o          34      16
3. NUTRITION , 10                                          162.6    415.0    577.6         72        1      6:.3    207.5    28a.9          ^       I
Sub-lotal FlILY K mTN                                       5986.5  5o700.7 11,59.2           49      :6   2944.3  ,9s50.4  5,914.6           49      26
3. ROJECT  WIENENT FOR POT A
1. PROJECT M1f6E1NT                                        49S 2  29499.5  2tS93.7   8      3          , : 4.   It24.4   1496.9           83a;
Sub-Toal PRIOJECT IWMNE T FOR POT A                           495.2 ^.498.5  2993.7           83  6           247.6  lr:49.2  I496.9        63
E. EAMTN TIH  OTHER NINISTRIES
1. ITJIT1ON TOM    INoI                                  1,376.6    432.2  1,606.8         24       4      846.3    216.1    904.4        24        1
2. FUlltIW  LITERCY ( INEL VWN I                         24960.0  1.S55.9  4.910.0         39      11  1I480.0   929.0  29406.0          3i       11
3. YTlM  PIWI                                              780.4    105.8   98".2          !2       ,     390.    52.5    443.1          12       2
4. IIFORVATION, EUATION
ANS CWMIUICAIION                                        363.6   631.0  1W194.6          70       3      161.8    415.5   597,3         70       3
Sl-otal K.TN T S  OClM  NINIIYS1UE                          5,490.7  3,224.9  89705.5         37      19   2740.3  1.61.4  4t,5:.6          37       19
Total 3AELIIE COSTS                                          249257.0 0.8642.6 45,0t9.5         46     100  1.129,5 10P421.3 2;,549.6          40    IGOS
P iacal Contingencies                                      1,453.6  I,579.0  3,032.6         52       7      726.6   789.5  1,516.3         5:
rice Cw.tirwKinca                                          4,242.0  3,95.7  7,937,7          47,     la      47.0    40Z.1    85.1          47        4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          29,"2.6 26P117.3 56.069.9          47     124  133^22.3 11,619.9 .4,41,2          47,    111



- 36 -
B. Financing
4.06      Of the total project costs of US$24.9 million, including tazeo end
duties amounting to US$0.4 million, the Government's contribution will be
US$1.9 million (8S). which will cover 272 of the recurrent costs and 6S of
the investment costs of the project. The remainder of investment costs
would all be financed from external sources. Table 3 presents project costs
by financing source. UNICZF and UNYPA have firmd up their cmmitment to
GMK, the Government of the Netherlands has transferred a contribution to
WHO, and 3DF and KfW have given indications of strong support. SDI is
ezpected to appraise its component by  nd February 1987*    The proposed IDA
credit of US$11.0 million would finance 442 of the total project costs and
would support: the construction and furnishing of 12 new health centers and
the upgrading of 6 ezisting health centers and esociattd bousings the
construction and equipping of one district hospital and related housings the
construction end equipping of the Zomba Scbool of Nursings the construction
end equipping of 3 regional health training centers; 27 vehicles and two
boats for the maternal and child health program; construction and equipping
163 fish ponds; construction and equipping a regional training center at
bu:xu; the managenmnt. manpower and support system component of the projeet
(except the drug production and supply sub-component which ix being financed
by the Government of the Netherlands through MON); production and printing
materials for the functional literacy programs training activities for youth
programs; and, support for project *mangeent. UNICEF is providing US$2.6
million or 102 of the total project costs and would support: the primary
health care program; equipment for the new and upgraded bealth centers;
technical assistance, materials and support for workshops and training
activities for the maternal and child health programs technical assistance
and production of materials for nutrition activities delivered through the
IOH and MOCS. UDF is expected to contribute US$3.5 million or 142 of the
total project costs and would support: the construction and furnishing of 7
new health centers and ssociated bousings training activities of the
functional literacy program; and equipment, materials and monitoring
activities for the information, education and comunication program;
salaries and building and equipment maintenance costs of the rural health
centers and housing. [FW im ezpected to contribute US$4 1 million or 172 of
the total project costs and would support: for the child spacing program.
construction and equipping of the urban family health unit in Lilongewe, 7
contraceptive and surgical contraception units and 3 new urban health
centers, upgrading and re-equipping of 2 emisting urban beclth centers.
technical assistonce to the surgical contraception prograa. and salaries and
maintenace costs; salaries of personnel and equipment and maintenance costs
in the accounting sections of MOH, the 3 regional teams and the 3 sajor
hospitali, the 21 assistant accountants in each of the district hospitals
and an expenditure control accountant; and the vehicle maintenance costs of
services at the regional level and the MCH component.



- 37 -
UWPA h. agreed to finance US$0.9 sillion or 3.5S of the total project cost
and is ezpectetd to support training activities. technical assistance and
mterial production for the child spacing program.



lw--i
SEcoD FWILY INEMTH PECT
Table 3: Project Costs by Financing Source
UNITED SATIlS
IITMSTAL'                         FUID FOR    IUTElETIOiL
UNITTED TIllS      EClIIC            FuEn       6W0Qu4T OF    FWMATION              U OPI.IET   06113     OF
C KIS FM   INEUL   FUE  VIETE II   TIE NTIETLMMS    iCTIVITIES    6S30CTI113                    m.I            Total
-                          ---        ---    ----------    --------------    ------ -   ---   -----  - --                                Local (Encl. hties I
_mt   I          _Amt    I        _IMt   ;       A.mt    ;       Amot   ;    Mmmnt   ;    Mmt                ;Aow*t   2   For. Ejch.    T a.A%        Taxes
rsss--s  s:s1  :S::    tft   Zfh   XIS =_       =S==8   :8S    Z55Z  tSfl  :5:5:S: S X:  fStSS aS S  nS.aS a.  =aS:=Sm88   =:::-n  sa--
I . INIVESTIENT CSTS
A. ClE  ken                                    -          1,404.9   12.,  2,164.0 19.6    139.4   1.3          -         -  6152.4 33.3  1,160.4 10.5  11l21.2  44.2    4P372.2      6,367.5    261.5
3. FIIT                                        -    -       37.5  12.0    225.4 30.6        20.8   2.3         -    -    3M3.1 31.0        25.3  3.5    732.2  2.9        275.3         441.7      14.6
C. UTEDULS                               1,437.3  43.2      614.3  17.C         -   -          -      -         -    -   1#290.2 37.5      50.3  1.5  39442.6  13.3    2,400.0           M2.2      50.3
3. E1IIIT                                  185.7  23.6      15.7   2.0    175., 2:.3        EE.0   11.2        -    -    312.5 39.7         9.7  1.2    736.7  3.2        umt.0           0.0       9.7
E. YlIOES                                   94.3  11.9         -      -         -   -    101.E  12.9           -    -    SC.6 74.2          7.9  1.0    7"9.7   3.2       732.8             -       7.9
F. TIEDIICL AISTAIICE                       41.3  2.5          -      -      10.  0.6    214.8  17.4           -    -  1,29.7 75.4            -   -  1a632.0  6.5    196M2.O                -         -
C. KM  FUS                                     -    -       56.6   3.6    233.0 3Z.6           -      -         -    -    315.0 48.1       50.2  .7     64.9  2.6             -         642.1      12.7
14. _IT UII  , KIES    * EVMIMTI               -    -       21.3   3.9          -   -       69.6  2S.3          -    -    155.0 62.9          -   -    246.5  1.0             -         246.5         -
1. JCTIVITIES                                4. 100.0           -                                                                                         4.6  0.0            -           4.,         -
J. TamUl1 773.9  24.2   1.037.4   32.4                                          - -    16.9   3.4    373.0  27.3    402.5 12.                 -   -  3,199.5  12.3            -       3,19.3          -
K.         151ull                             -    -        30.1  13.3                     63.4  27.4          -    -    137-  39.3                    2         0    .9 231.7
low1 UDlE DI Tas                            2.5.3  11.4   3.269.2  14.4  2,OO7.8 1U.3    776.6   3.9    373.0  3.3  11,020.6 43.3  1,303.3  5.7  22,742.3  91.2    1.471.6              11,14.3    356.6
H. - 5311
A. O EB                                       -    -       132.2  20.0    342.6 45.0          -      -         -    -         -   -    21.1 34.9         60.6   30.                    743.6         -
3.      1      T     M  111 U1                -    -           -     -    614.2 75.3          -      -         -    -         -   -    231.1 24.7    315.3  3.3          65.4          U4.9          -
C.    _         1 T E                         -    -        24.5  22.1      71.5 64.4       3.7   3.3          -    -          -   -      11.3 10.2    111.1  0.4         3.6      n-s               -
3. ROLM   15ina                               -    -       107.1  23.9    232.2 53.2       51.1   2.2          -     -        -   -       m11.3 n2      511.7   2.1      4332          14.5
TOW   m1                                                               1 -    -  .3   12.9  t,310.5 59.6  14.8   0.7  -    -      -   -    1W.3 26.1   ,196.7  3.3    1.13.2             10161.5
T1e  lal  uemmA                              2,39.  10.4    3       3,5.0  14.2  4*113.4 16.5  3.4   3.         375.0  3.5  11,420.6 44.2  14393.3  7.6  24,941.2 15.0   1161.9         112,95.7    356.6
e            as.s as...  asas  5              _      am    fl s Sa    _ae                                     5su



- 39 -
C. Procure2Mnt
4.07      Procurement arrangements are summarised in Table 4.  It is
expected that 27S of total project costs would be procured through
international competitivo bidding (ICB), 18S through local competitive
bidding (LCB), 452 through other methods which include 2S for force account.
and 10S by other meas. All donor contributions in the project will be
parallel financing. with procurement and disbursements through the
procedurer of the rerpective donors. The remainder of this paragraph
applies to the IDA financed part of the project. The civil works contract
for the construction of the district hospital at Msinba (including
aecomodations), estimted at about US$2.6 sillion, and the civil works
contract for the Zomba School of Nursing will be awarded following ICB
procedures. Local firms bidding for these contracts will receive a
preference of 7.5S. Other civil works. including 12 rural health centers
with bsming, tbree regional health training centers; and a functional
literacy regional training center. are too small and scattered to attract
fims from outside Kalawi. These contracts will be awarded following
competitive bidding advertised locally. LCB procedures have been reviewed
by IDA anl found acceptable. None of these contracts is expected to be over
US$70,000. The remaining civil works (upgrading siz existing rural health
ceaters and associated housing. 10 shelters and 163 fish ponds) will be
carried out by force account of the Ministry of Warks and Supplies. The
total of force accounts construction is not ezpected to esceed US$.53
million. The local construction industry is well developed and has the
capability to undertake these activities without difficulty.



- 40 -
MALAWI: SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Table 4: Procurement Table 1/
(USS million)
Procurement Method
ICE      LCB 2/   Other 3/    MA 4/   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil works and
design fee                  3.77        3.87    4.04         0.0      11.68
(3.20)    (3.27)    (-)           (-)    (6.47)
B. Furniture, equipment.
vehicles. materials           3.05       0.57    2.13         0.0       5.75
(2.33)    (0.23)    (-)          (-)      (2.56)
C.  Technical Assistance            0.0        0.0      0.34         1.29      1.63
H                   H           H _   -  (1.29)
D. Monitoring, research.
eval. & other materials        0.0        0.0        0.9       0.16      0.25
(-)        (-)        (-)      (0.16)   (0.16)
E.  Training                        (0.0)      0.0         2.8       0.40      3.20
(-)        (-)        (-)      (0.40)   (0.40)
F.  Overseas training               0.0        0.0         0.09      0.14      0.23
C)         C-)        (-)      (0.14)   (0.14)
II. RECURRENT COSTS                 0.0        0.0         1.61      0.59      2.20
Total:                   6.82       4.44      11.10       2.58    24.94
Total IDA:              (5.53)    (3.50)        (-)      (1.99)  (11.02)
Z                         27          18         45        10       100
1/   Numbers in parenthesis show the costs to be financed by IDA.
2/   Includes items procured under prudent shopping procedures.
3/   Other includes items financed in parallel by donor agencies.
4/   NA includes activities not subject to procurement.



- 41 -
4.08      Furniture and equipment would be grouped am for am possible into
contracts valued at US$100,000 or more procured through ICB. urniture and
equipment contracts valued less than US$100,000 but more than US$20,000
would be procured through LCB up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.0
aillion. Iteme of furniture or equipsent valued at less than US$20,000
would be purchased by prudent shopping with at least three price quotations,
provided that the aggregate value of such purchases does not exceed
US$300,000. The vehicles would be procured as a package through ICB.
Supplierx of vehicles would be required to &gree to maintain an adequate
after-sales service and an invaitory of spare parts. Contracts for
materials and supplies required for INC activities would be awarded
following competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. Prudent shopping vith at least three price
quotations would be used for miscellaneous items of supplies and materials
valued at less than US$10,000 provided that the aggregate value of such
purchases does not exceed US$100,000.
4.09      All IDA-financed contracts over US$200,000 to be procured through
ICB would be subject to prior IDA review. Other contracts would be subject
to selective post award review.
4.10      ?or all IDA-financed consultants eiployed for this project,
selection procedures, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
euployment would be satisfactory to IDA, and in accordance with the
'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and The World
Bank as an Executing Agencyn (August 1981).
D. Disbursements
4.11      Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit will be on the basis
of: (a) 852 of total expenditures on civil works; (b) 1002 of foreign
ezpenditures for directly imported goods and 902 for locally pr-cured
service equipment, supplies, vehicles and local training; and (c) 1002 of
expenditures for overseas training and consultants' services. In order to
epetdite the flow of funds for disbursements a special account with an
initial deposit of US$0.9 million would be established and maintained in a
commercial bank. Withdrawal applications for expenditures for civil works,
equipment, supplies and materials under contracts or purchase orders of less
than US$20,000 would be submitted against statement of expenditure;
supporting documentation would be retained in the implemuenting agencies for
review by Bank supervision missions and for annual audits. All other
disbursments would be fully documented. It is anticipated that the credit
would be fully disbursed by June 30. 1993. An indicative schedule of
disbursements is shown in Annex 1, Table 14. This schedule is based on the
standard disbursement profile for Malawi.



- 42 -
E. Accounts and Audit
4.12      Project funds would be maintained in a separate account and would
be channelled from the Ministry of Finance to the MOH for Part A and to the
BP and D for Part B and would be administered by the respective Deputy
Secretaries. Project financial records would be maintained by the Chief
Accountant. MOH for Part A and by the Chief Accountant. Office of the
President and Cabinet for Part B. The Office of the Chief Accountant. MOH
would be strengthened by the addition of an accountant solely for the
project who would receive training by IDA staff in IDA's accounting.
auditing and disbursement procedures. The project would be subject to
normal government accounting and auditing procedures, which are considered
satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i)
audits of project accounts and SOEs by the Auditor General or independent
auditors acceptable to IDA would be carried out. (ii) that all audited
accounts would be made available to IDA within 6 months of the close of each
GOM fiscal year (para. 7.01 j)



- 43 -
V. PROJECT IMPLDMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
5.01      The project was prepared by the MOH in collaboration with the
MOCS, BP and D, Information Department. and Youth Department. The National
Health Plan (1986-1995) and the IDA Population Sector Review provided the
framework for project development. In addition, the Malavi Civil Service
Review Commission reviewed the structure of the MOH and a new organizational
structure was recommended (para.2.29). Site plans, sketch drawings and
detailed working drawings for the district hospital, rural health centers.
urban health centers, family health unit, school of nursing and regional
training facilities were reviewed by the appraisal mission, and the required
modifications have been submitted to IDA for review. Working drawings.
bills of quantity and tender documents for all contracts to be executed
through ICB have been finalized before negotiations. Confirmation has been
received that all required sites have been acquired. Detailed survey work
for the upgrading of rural and urban health centers has been commisxioned to
consultants and ir expected to be completed by April 1987. Equipment lists
have been finalized and have been forwarded to IDA for review.
Implementation plans for MOB and non-MOH programs have been drawn up. Terms
of reference for studies and technical assistance have been finalized.
B. Organization and Management
5.02      The Principal Secretary. MOH would have overall responsibility for
isplementation of Part A, while the Deputy Secretary. EP and D would have
overall responsibility for coordination of Part B of the project. For Part
A, a full time project coordinator, accountable to the Chief of Health
ervices. MOH, would be appointed.  The project coordinator will be assisted
by a technical advisor, a procurement officer, an accountant, administrative
assistants and secretaries. For Part B, the head of the Human Resources
Unit, NP and D vill function as the project coordinator. The Government
agreed during negotiations in principle that the EP and D would play a
coordinating role for multi-sectoral family health activities. Two
coordinating committees for Parts A and B will be established. For Part A.
the Principal Secretary, MOH will chair a coordinating committee whose
members would include the Deputy Secretary, the Chief of Health Services
(CHS), the Chief Nursing Officer, the Chief Health Planning Officer, the
Chief Accountant and the Project Coordinator (para. 7.01 k).
Representatives of other MOH units would be co-opted to the committee as
necessary. The coordinating comittee would meet every month to discuss the
implesentation of Part A of the project. For Part B, the Deputy Secretary,
BP and D will chair a coordinating committee whose members would include the
Principal Economist, Principal Secretary MOCS, representative of Department
of Youth, Deputy Chief Information Officer, DCMO and the head of the Human
Resources Unit. The coordineting committee would meet every month to
discuss implementation of Part B of the project.   The Principal Secretary,
MOCS, would monitor the implementation of activities under Part B of the



- 44 -
project. An overall project coordination committee would be established,
not later than October 1, 1987. for both parts of the project under the
chairmmn3hip of the Principal Secretary. EP and D and would meet quarterly
to review progress of the project. Members of the committee would include
the Principal Secretaries of the MOH, Ministry of Works and Supplies and
MOCS, the Chief Information Officer, the Administrator or representatives of
the Secretary for Youth and the Malawi Young Pioneers, and the respective
project coordinators (para. 7.01 1). The EP and D is being strengthened as
part of the Structural Adjustment Program. In addition, UNFPA proposes to
fund the establishment of a population planning capability in the EP and D
(US$512,000 over five years). The project is expected to start in mid-1987
and be completed by December 31. 1992. the closing date being June 30, 1993.
5.03      The Principal Secretary. MOWS would be responsible for the civil
works program. A clerk of works would be appointed in the MOH's PlannIng
Unit, accountable to the Project Coordinator to assist the MOWS in
implementing the civil works program. The production of architectural
drawings for the project would be managed by the MOWS, which would also
coordinate the quantity surveying and mechanical, electrical, structural and
civil engineering inputs of design work. Since the MOWS does not have
sufficient staff to handle these functions, use would be made of
consultants. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that a clerk of works and a procurement officer, to follow up on
all procurement, will be appointed by October 1, 1987 to the Planning Unit
of the MOH (para. 7.01 m).
5.04      Procurement of furniture, equipment and supplies, and recruitment
of consultants for both parts of the project would be undertaken by the
Planning Unit, MOH which has the capability to undertake procurement
efficiently.
5.05        Responsibility for iriplementation of each component undertaken
under Part A of the project would rest with the applicable section of the
MOH, i.e., the Controller (Clinical Services), the Controller (Technical
Support Services), the Controller (Family Health Services), and the
Controller (Community Health Services), whose positions would be established
and filled by October 1, 1987, and who would supervise respectively the
manpower development and management component, the support systems
component, child spacing and nutrition programs and the primary health care
program (para. 7.01 d). Responsibility for implementation of each component
undertaken under Part B of the project would be as follows: The Principal
Secretary, MOCS would be responsible for the functional literacy and women's
programs; the Administrator, Department of Youth for vouth programs; and the
Chief Information Officer for IEC programs.
C. Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
5.06      Each project coordinator would have responsibility for monitoring
the progress of implementation of their respective part of the project. The
project coordinator for part A would prepare quarterly progress reports and



- 45 -
would highlight major issues needing resolution for Part A of the project.
He would also prepare quarterly progress reports for Part B of the project
under the coordination of the Deputy Secretary BP and D. These reports
would be approved by the project coordinating comittee (para. 5.02) before
submission to IDA and other donors. Regular coordination meetings of the
donor agencies will be held in Lilongwe. As a basis for monitoring, annual
implementation plans will be prepared from FY88 onwards and the mid-term
review based thereon will be carried out not later than December 31. 1988;
during negotiations assurances were obtained that such plans will be
submitted to IDA annually four months before the beginning of the Malawian
financial year (para. 7.01 n).
5.07      A number of process indicators would be utilized to monitor
progress. These would include: for the PEC program, the number and types
of training and refresher activities undertaken annually; for management and
support systems accomplishment of national and district training goals
annually for the MCH and child spacing programs, the number of women
receiving services (para. 5.09) and types of training and refresher
activities undertaken annually; for INC activities in the MOR and other
government agencies, the production of posters, booklets and manuals.
Details of the proposed process indicators by year are given in the Annex 1,
Table 15.
5.08      In addition to the process indicators discussed above, several
surveys and studies are planned. First, a bate-line health status and
utilization survey is planned for 1987. Second, a study of the impact of
revised fee schedules on utilization of services and the potential for
health insurance is planned during 1987. Third, annual plan assessment and
review workshops are proposed. Fourth, annual impact studies of various
programs are planned. Fifth, a mid-term evaluation of the PHC program is
planned towards the end of 1988. Sixth, a special evaluation of the BPI is
planned for 1989. Finally, a tuberculosis prevalence survey will be
undertaken in 1989. Assurances were obtained from the Government that the
results of a series of surveys would be made available to IDA within three
months of their completion for review and comments (para. 7.01 o).
5.09      To reach a contraceptive prevalence rate of 10% bv 1991 annual
targets by method have been developed. In making the projections, current
contraceptive prevalence is assumed to be 2% and current total fertility is
taken to be 7.7. If the 1991 contraceptive prevalence rate of 102 in
achieved then the total fertility would be in the range of 7.0-7.1. Am a
result, the number of women using contraceptives during the project period
is expected to increase by about 452 to about 55,000. In this scenario of
moderate fertility decline, population would then increase to 17 million by
2015. representing a 702 increase in population in 30 years as compared to a
2002 increase if fertility were to remain constant. A paper detailing how
these targets were calculated is available in the project files. The
following table sumarizes the targets of annual number of acceptors per
1000 Married Women of Reproductive Age (MWRA) during the project period,



- 46 -
MALAWI: ESTIMATED ANNUAL NUNBn O ACCPTORB (IN THOUSANDS)
per 1000 ISRA
1987     1988      1989
Female Sterilization              2.21     3.67      5.21
Inj ectabls                       1.25      1.43     1.62
IUDu                              5.09     6.28      7.47
Pills                            27.50     32.00    35.32
Condoms                           2.89      4.27     5.89



- 47 -
VI. PROJECT BDEQITS, JUSTITICATION AND RISK
A. Benefits and Justification
6.01      Th. proposed project is designed to continue institution building
activities initiated through the first project, to consolidate an  epand
priority program such as primary bealth care and child spacing begun under
the first project. and to introduce family health activities through a
.lti-sectoral approach. It draws heavily on the recently prepared National
Rcalth Plan and the IDA Population Sector Review. The project is expected
to ensure that ezisting resources are used with sauimum efficiency. Through
this project the Government vould make the priority investentt needed to
ameliorate the poor health status of its population.
6.02      Through increased coverage of peripheral health services, the
project is expected to reach iver 1.9 million people. The benefits to this
population group would primarily be improvement of bealth status. Increased
coverage of peripberal health services would also provide access, for the
first time. to child spacing services in rural areas. At the district
level. strengthening the bospital system and provision of surgieal
contraception units would provide a complete rnge of child spacing
services. The institution of in-service training would ensure that the
quality of service providers remains of good quality. Activities to improve
mnagement and support systems would have both short and medium benefits.
In the short term, there would be iaprovemente in the anagement of health
programs. The development of objectives for various units and job
descriptions at each level would strengthen managment capability. Emphasis
on the team approach at the regional and district levels would ensure better
coordination and implementation of health program. The restructured MOB
would ensure that there would be a more rational use of manpower. Continued
strengthening of health planning at the national and district levels would
ensure that health prograus are designed to address priority health
problew. The implementation of new accounting systems at the NOR at the
district level and in the hospitals would enable better monitoring of
expenditures and would improve fee collection. Expansion of the
pharmaceutical system up to the district level would furtbhr improve the
effectiveness of the distribution systes.
6.03      The impact of the project on morbidity, mortality and fertility
levels is likely to be slight during the three years. However, programs in
f4aily heulth, disease prevestion and nutrition supported tbrough the
project are designed to have significant impact in tbe modium term.
Reduction of the infant mortality rate from 151 to 100/1000 live births and
0-4 cumulative mortality from 330 to 210/1000 live births are targets for a
five-year period. While this substantial reduction in infant and ehild
mortality is not likely to be achieved in the stated period, the specific
and targeted approach adopted sbould yield significant progress towards
their achieveomnt. The time reuuired to meet the targets will depend



- 48 -
importantly on overall socioeconomic progress and ultisectoral efforts to
reduce the prevalence of malnutrition. The target contraceptive prevalence
rate at the end of five years is about 102 for modern methods only. There
is no target for traditional methods. Though there is persistently high
demoad for child spaeing services, the achieveenwt of this target in
dependent upon bow quickly those services can be made available throughout
the country.
6.04      family health activities through the multisectoral approach are
epected to benefit about 2.5 Sillion people. Of these, about 600,000
people would be reached through the functional literacy program, 300,000
through the women' progrms, 100,000 through the youth programs. and 1.5
million through INC activities. These activities are expected to increase
awareness of family health problems in the sbort term and in the mdium term
result in demand for family health services.
6.05      In view of the difficult financial situation existing in Malawi. a
central concern of the design of the proposed project was to ensure its
affordability to the Gavernment. Of particular concern ws" the
affordability of the project's recurrent costs, which is expected to be K1.1
million. The incremental recurrent custs are rema*ably low for a project
of this sze.  This is because tbe Governent's strategy has been to limit
expansion of services with significant recurrent cost implications and to
expand only those high priority programs with low recurrent cost
implications.
6.06      Coot reduction is expected to be realised from improved accounting
procedures, bill collection. monitoring and control of expenditures and from
changes in bospital treatment regimens. Aggregate figures for the period
1976/77 to 1984/85 show that 872 of the MOH's recurrent budget goes to
curative institutions (l12 for administration and 2S preventive care). The
two central bospitals alone account for about 332 of total MOH recurrent
expenditure. Studies of the operations of these hospitals finaceed through
the IDA-supported health project reveal that about 442 of their non-salary
expenditures can be saved. This could be done without affecting their
output in the following aroeas food, overhead costs, vehicle expenditures
and hospital supplies. The following exmple from the Queen Klisabeth
Hospital. Blantyre, illustrates the potential savings in Kwacha from one
item - overhead costs - through improved management.
Overhead                   Current Cost                    Pro eted Cost
(1985)                           (1990)
Water                      342,705.24                      68,541.05
Coal                       128,851.52                          0
Blectricity                105,928.45                     105,928.45
Telepbone                   92,968.00                      37,187.20
Other overheads             10,330.65                      20,330.65
Total Annual Overhead    680,783.46                       221,986.95



- 49 -
6.07      AssUming that the cost reduction measures are gradually
introduced, the project is epected to result in savings of about X8.4
million by the end of the implementation period. In addition, the WE has
instituted a sebmse for cost recovery. At the en of the project. X4.4
sillion are ezpectnd to be recovered from fees. Cost recovery would rise to
X5.3 sillion annually by 1990. Vith implemntation of these cost reduction
and cost reeovery measures the NOR would be able to *eet the incremental
recurrent budget requirerants for the project.
6.08      Most of the activities proposed under the project have been pilot
tested in the country through the IDA-assitted first project and suitably
modified to permit the expansion proposed in the second project. In
addition, the phased approach to implementation of the Government's fve-
year program will enable further modifications as the activities are
replicated nationally.
B. Risks
6.09      The project has three main risks.  The first concerns the
restructuring of the MOH. The MOH has had intrinsic weaknesses in its
organizational structure and hs had few qualified and experienced senior
staff. Factors beyond the NOH'c control make it difficult to undertake the
proposed reorganization. An inter-ministerial task force headed by the
Secretary5 Office of the President and Cabinet has reviewed the
recoweadations of the Malawi Civil Service Review Commission. The NOR has
begun to make organizational changes and has recently added senior staff to
its managment. Additional managemaet studies are being undartsken and
progress in dveloping a noew structure for the NOR is satisfactory.
6.10      The second risk concerns the civil works element of the project.
Implementation of civil works in the IDA-assisted health project has been
slow. In the past. the MMO has been unable to adequately brief ad monitor
the NOWS. urthermore, the 08S has been critically understaffed for about
two years. This has resulted in significant delays in completing civil
works in the first TDA assisted bealtb project. The following steps have
been taken to minimise the risks: (a) the MOWS has hired expatriate
architects to reduce its staffing problem; (b) sucb more use is currently
made of consultaats by MOBS than in the past3 and (e) project preparation is
at an advanced state, with tender documents for all ICB contracts ready.
Finally, the project provides for a clerk of works and a procuremnt officer
to be attached to the MOW  (para 5.03) to coordinate work with NOMS. With
these steps it is likely that the civil works elemnt will be carried out as
planned.
6.11      The third risk concrnes the introduction of faily health
activities through a multisectoral approach. The UP and D has recently been



- 50 -
reor5anised as port of the Itretrel  djustmt rn.rou  m_ Lg epected to
play a coordiutimg role for mltieetoral actLvLties.  Oly Lf
reorganLsation prows to be m_eewftu. am  the N  _  D play itg role
effectively.  Thro%k aitie_1  statffigs higher leel tnimiag ald
teebchnal "dsstace, th. mle wll be develoe  grdelly. Thek ha
not had ay associatLas with the 1=. the Depe-ttot of YTethe or the
InformatLon Depart_et-  at, hltgb   thes  offices he a gOd track record of
implementing other projects. The project propses to a   fEmily health into
aziting progrm  omly at this stage.   wed em the inperieam   with project
implemtatioL  major expassion of fally halth pregrens esld be co  idered
at the nezt phae. The steps outlimd aboe  re, inpeted to mae the
project manageable.



- 51 -
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOHUEKNDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations tho following assurances have been obtained
from the Governaentt
(a)  that it vill submit to IDA for its review and coments, a revised
organization chart for MOH by September 1. 1987. and formally
adopt such revised organizational chart by October 1. 1987 (para.
2.22);
(b) that should the Borrower propose to make any investment in the
health sector which is not included in the first five years of the
Borrower's National Health Plan (1986-1995). such investment shall
be made by mutual agreoment between the Borrower and the
Association (para. 2.51);
(c) that the health centers, once completed, will be adequately
staffed by at least one medical assistant and two enrolled nurses
(para. 3.09);
5d) that the positions of three regional health officers, three
regional nursing officers and of four Controllers each for
Clinical Services, Technical Support Services. Family Health
Services, and Community Health Services will be created and filled
by October 1. 1987 (paras. 3.13 and 5.05);
(e) that it will carry out the program agreed with IDA for cost
reduction at MOH and the various hospitals (para. 3.14);
(f) that the positions of one expenditure control accountant at MOH.
three regional accountants and one accountant at each of the three
main hospitals will be filled by October 1. 1987; that the
position of 21 assistant accountants for each of the district
hospitals will be filled by August 31, 1988 (para. 3.16);
Cs) that a training officer will be appointed to coordinate in-
service training activities by September 1. 1987; and that annual
in-service training plans for the GOM fiscal year beginning April
1988 will be subsitted to IDA for review and co_ment by December
31. 1987. and annually thereafter (para. 3.17);
(h) that six clinical officers and 16 enrolled nurses will be
appointed to the urban clinics once completed (par&. 3.22);
;1) that the MOH establish by September 1. 1987. a health
information. education and communication review



- 52 -
committee chaired by the Chief of Health Services, with
members from the Ministries of Health and Comunity
Services and the Secretary for Youth and Malawi Young
Pioneers to approve IEC messages prepared by non-MOH
agencies (pars. 3.28);
(j) that audit of project accounts and SOE's by the Auditor General or
independent auditors acceptable to IDA will be made available to
IDA within 6 months of the close of each Government of Malawi
fiscal year (para. 4.12);
(k) that it shall establish a Coordinating Committee within MOH, with
the Principal Secretary of MOH as Chairman, including the Project
Coordinator for Part A and representatives of the various units of
MOH involved in project activities, for the purpose of
coordinating the activities under Part A of the project (para.
5.02);
(1)  that it shall establish a Project Coordination Comittee not later
than October 1. 1987. consisting of the Principal Secretary of BP
and D as chairman; the Principal Secretaries of MOB. MOWS and
MOCS; the Chief Information Officer; the Secrtary for Youth and
Malavi Young Pioneers or his representative, and the respective
Project Coordinators for Parts A and B of the project's activities
(para. 5.02);
(m) that a clerk of works and a procurement officer will be appointed
to the Planning Unit of the MOH by October 1. 1987 (para. 5.03);
(n) that as a basis for monitoring. starting from FY88. annual
implerentation plans will be submitted four months before the
beginning of the Malavian financial year; and a mid-term review
carried out not later than December 31. 1988 (para. 5.06);
(o) that the results of a series of surveys would be made available to
IDA within three months of their completion for review and
comments (pars 5.08); and
7.02      Subject to the above assurances and conditions being met, it is
recommended that the proposed project constitute a suitable basis for an IDA
Credit of US$11.0 million equivalent to the Government of Malawi.



- 53 -
Na)lia    ISKc     Feuily Health Proijt
The Teo Lbeinq Comm  e  kith in Chilirm  0-4 tows,  93
f r   b023 Ruwtw  ospital Deths
Total
ftw                2          kccuiuatia
At,eu.                                  Deaths            Deaths      Prcatw
l, %"n                                       97!            li.2             14.2
2. PunUsa                                     734           13.0             29.2
3.   tritimal delficiency                     73            11.2             4.4
4. kI wrt a11                                               10.1             50. 5
S. Amid                                       549            9.1 5I9.
4.  iirrhei disas                            504             3.4             id.0
7. T,t                                        25             4.2             7L2
. hiuase  ii the NV's  svstn                  94            1.4             MIl
9. Acimuts MW iljUin                           39            1.5             75.3
10. Terclois                                   2S             0.5             75.1
A      1,   ble 2
klami  McOW  hSily WIlth ProJeCt
The To  Nut PteIm_t CAM  .4 htpatint Visits for
Ag 3-4 .i 9M   fro  4. uallim  vniits
Porcelta40     Acuml atlas
3jnuas                                 of TotaL        Porcontage
l. kelria                                  35.6             5.4
2. nWirstor  imfectils                      39.1          35.4
L htw whdi MM                                3.7           44.1
4. laflma  tir     m       of t    eye       7.9            2.I
L Ms a _u                                     L&           77.6
b. id.al  ad   It y"toU                      5.2           a.l
7. Tram  wa      itt                         3.1           15.9
3.  ubil                                     2.3           3.2
9. ktritim  4@*cimci disea                   2.2           ".4
10. * VW"  m   stbu  helthtairs               l.b           9.0



- 54 -
Am     1, Table 3
Ii   Si nai Faa ily  etU  Projet
NN lmultal Ii  Capacity ad ktccpatilu
(by Lwl of kcpcy) .
Avwage No.
hi   4Imtiuts                 Avw
lpitai                    C4apcity           w   Dy
llija                            41            104.5            a4.S
Mtcftts                          23             47.             241.1
tooka,                  $~~~24         170.9            174.2
Ulosw                           37             on.              IJU25.
Chikuaue                        114            149.0            14.2
Ns16a,a                         137            1,0.0            131.7
u*a                             105            144.             137.7
KUg                             142            201.0            123.5
Ncljtt                           74             93.4            12t
ottm                            I"             M.1 11.2
NWacMaa                          54             5.4             10.2
Thyulo                          133            144.1            1  lO4
Kutupro   onu a                 100           1l1.0             101.0
INWchi                          204            20.1              ". I
Ninab                           133            134.3             9J,
Slaityre                        N4             347.1             95.I
Shtakuta                        131            124.1             94.7
Nkhataiev                        97             91.4             94.2
bsi                             144            13.0             92.s
1mi.                            154            131.9             53.3
Ciraituis                       115             93.4             61.2
hu                              123            101.9            so.t
Chitip                           73             t2.2             71.5
15               0 ".0           53.3



- S5 -
Annex 1, Tabl.e 4
Rulait   CSeeig PFa sl     tJi  Projet
ON      Stafia t stiW, Joe  914
ITWP        WPFMAlt   OF
CATR?                    EUTILIUsT             In FMS       ISTuES
No4ical. Office                      134          14                     42
Dital Officr                          11             I                   73
Clinical Off jw                      1m             17                   97
hical Ausistut                       517           351                  is
R"esturd   rus                       497            347                  14
Emnulled Iu'siN                      93             919                 101
Pwusast                               13              9                  49
Phe'uy Tuuicil                         b              I'                 17
pharmy  imsstit                                      32                 123
bmratme Te         iasin              29             23                   6
Lamwaton    i itat                    3              a                   6
Radzognahr                            17              9                  53
I4ayAuistt                             9             I         
Dital T       cta                      1              7                  64
Deotal uAi  at                        12              9                  7n
Pryst/OT                              12              6                  34
ealth las tra                        101             73                  69
Wlth  usi tat                        231            to                   n
other                              U2              191 
Total                           42              23



- 56 -
AMxmc 1, Table 5
Malawi:  Second Faily Health Project
6rguth of Wealth Service Staff (1977-1933)
for All Sectort-.0, PM, Local  eovt
z Change
uee: o, Sta                             1971              ('13                     * Year?:
;. C:;n;;a  ot':c                              79 1r2                          very larle
;  * exca1  assstant                         525               iU2                    *20Z
q"uieif nursetetdwit                        397                519
'    rotlled nursommit:1                   1040              1'55os0
:.f^tl1  P.5^,iI5;3tAfit                      4                 3er  Iaq
3. pIarqscl  o'
. .aleratoty t:c~n:an;:I                                          I
i.  tratary teclnncin                         1;                4                     *20Z
;    - ab to rv assistuat                      ob              91 
.:.   oioqraeOIO                                 *                20            verY lwqe
;:.  tIv  aslistaft                              '                li            VerY large
:. 4es1tn .npecto                                                74 '
;'. HcaI:n ecutator;.                                                                    n
;;. euaitl aZsistint                          loS                :li           iv
,'  5rutacv  assistant                         i                  :             erv larqe
:.   ts                                                         1352 
'.zt  otal in  tOH                         55
..~..e...fll..in._ee.inee............O.___
t   aen i    om   StatIstg 19    nt l6: R  itff Acrd am at Uarv al                      .
;;orls  iiic. iWO Cotrv Prograsing Documt !97, inad drld 3ink Aegort, 1951



57 -
Aui   1, Table 6
ele int  Secod Full 1talth ProjKt
Averwo Attiitiou  latn  frt the Os  19S1119 3
Total          Total                 %a
[ml"          Laws              Attrition
CATE                          1914          1a14                    lte
Clinical Offices rs1                              12                3.41
lmpistwi  N Um                   613              31                3.L6
brolled Nr/" tdvvn              22m1              49                2.t2
Nedical Asistats                 9                47                4.91
II uh kmstats                    436              17                3.91
Laratory   sistats               144               3                2.LS
Parmy    istats                   132              5                36.1
A       1, Tab    7
MILANIt SCON, FAILY   kHE    PlOJECT
R1O  RECUIENT EPOSITIS 1M11/82-193/4 BY S OUFCE O FINANCE
'14
Totl       Lipeediturw
Mu-        Finaced by
Truiwy                          Radical                      Treasury        Mo-Treawy
Year           Aloclatio            Fe"        Perm.el           Drus          Sources            Sources
19R546              37              1046            2400          iGC             941 26
1914/l              20031            U4             2400          2000            516                  1t
1931S84             2059             s3            2U00           2100            523S                 25
1912/63             17422            537            2300          2100            497                  23
1931.62            I1m               3M3            2300          3100            5793                 31
NOTEs:
1.  ata on fs and eleoditure fro  the  alaui bverRet Estimutc o4 Espoditure.
2. Foreign oMeical prsoeel eployo  th owb tKchiCAl us11t1ACI   though
pots to their iqn.  The RN  pays th  local rate ad thb Suw tng aw  iIciS
pays the differoce betvme   the kom  rate ad the local rate.
3. Fedral le lic e#   rmy aNd Stat hrit.i  prwide  r   wport.
Source, Estimate by lBak Rtssiom, 195.



- 58 -
Am= 1, Table 8
WalsI kScd FaIly IIa1th Project
0  IH fCm   fre  Fm   1975/74-19iO )
Ip ptatiua  it Aid            Aspretatiun      is Aid it  CmtaUt
is Carrot Price  2/              Prices (171/79100) J
ore"
lsopditere    Cwrut
ia Cn"Ut       M              I.4  rees       cuetat
Prien           ktul          Euputtwe        Pricn          Per Ciait
Yw           WONI            (KIWI              (1)        W(006)            (K)
19316               30            lw?              4.3           43            0.10
(1st.)
19,3/u            24069"                           3.4           472           0.07
(hvl
19; /P1            2100            W3              3.2           35            0.01
1932/U             IJin             57             3.3           3             0.o0
1"91/2            1ism             1.w 11          S.5           744           0.12
;"ont1             14*             49             L.            m             0.0o
1iti/              1206            393             3.2           33            0.07
173/79             t03             314             3.7           54            0.07
97/73               7761           349             4.5           42            0.01
1974/7?             74             2               4.2           334
197"5/              a"             27              4.3           370
NMI5
Il/  ,0 00  of this m  on  Sritiu Cuuity aid.
V    Aoopiatims is aid ijclue fe  aid d   rtutal rectits too
e`010r ssts.  Th latte  iS is te  eibtrON eu             13 14 the total
wpwir tius is aid.
slrce:  kuW  i  Halst hwrumt   wrui  estiated o4 hohstitmrs.



- 59 -
Amux 1, Table 9
MALAWI: SECOND FAMILY REALTH PROJECT
MM0 ACTUAL KICUUENT EDKNDITUZ BY ACTIVITY AREA
(3~76,'77 -1984/15)
AdNa-         Preventive   Curative
tcratelon     and Control  L  tl-
WIAR      Tr?a^t                     tutions             TOTAL
L' 000   2    R'OO 00       2 lo t' 000O X   '00
1965/86     30069   13    19360   6    Islas   SI    23,57   100
(esc.)
1964/85     2,769   14    1,526   5    22,963  8    28,031   100
( rovisd
"t.)
1983/84     2,645   12    1,221   o    .7,734   82    21,600   100
1962/63     2,108   12    1,121   6    14,193   81    17,422   100
1981/82     2,377   13       948   5    15,336   82    18,663   100
1960/81     1,693   11       910   6    1.2 .377   82    14,980   100
1979/80     1,440   12       802   7      9,841   81    12,083.  100
1978/79     1,048   10       634   6      8,645   84    10,326   100
1977/78       956   12       466   6      6,338   82      7,761   i00
1976/77 -     833   12       615   9      5,636   79      7,761   100
Total:
t976/77-
1965/86   19,711  12    9,603   6   131,693  ,9   161,007   100
Source: Used on Malavi Governmnt approved  stiato of esp4diture.



- 60 -
Aiim  1, rbl. 10
75/76 -  5/86
agjl  &  g - Qr-ut                      w     (  aw                P     ( 1   79)
Ir                     ,P.-=G,m)   pd )    l
fraqg  & io1           ~        Su sca                          & 'I       brvcu  lbal
*Ys        _                                 (A)       (b)   (c)).(b)    (a)    (b)    (&a)*b)
1981/86  687 43                6,56 8,066           290    309369         5,953   9,S    15,478
19648S5  794        758        5,797      7,349     0,62    28,031       5,837   10,777   16,614
1985/J  539         643        5,619      6,801     14,79    21,599       5,29    8,351    13,880
1962/83  537                   49221    _5,385      12,037    17,422      4,573    7,566    12,141
1911/82  435        437        3 55                 14,297   18,723       4,166    9,846    14,014
1960/81  359        318        2,857      3,534     11,446    14,960      3,506   8,636   12,144
1979/W0  358        320        2,46       1,140      8,943    12,013      3,140   8,733    11,673
1978/79  284        176        2,3154     2 ,914     7,412   10,326       2,914    7,412   10,326
1977/78  2, a       UR          1,735     2,132      5,69      7,761      2,578   6,807    9,387
,976/77  165       172        1,95       1,832      5 251    7,0C3       2,356   6,841    9,227
1975/76   163       15          1,3.j     1,711      4,66      6,379      2,237   6,249    8,486
.%to.    7ha Pct  !=bds u     fro  1975/06 to 197&'79 is a 8        I zl-ta  .  FTo  197&79 to 195/86 on
seun L.damwu em Ab.lIa, -- for iinbm d alaaw wd tku actaw for pco  c
So               ia:  I
sas: Bd= ANM%e  Ul                     Of 94:t    cm7*     m



- 61 -
.Am   I, .abb.e
MAL.AWI: SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
197/7 - ._86_
MML A1F   AL 1                       pOL  Aal  A    h: l
- _--  Smith  +1-                                                  wu  ftuwU
Gav~~~~Q cvovm       DCr    M)caL   2 of ocaJ  fto.    t A.  in C=a                a  os
MRw       Juw                                      GC a=m                0 %2of  Pki            Pri.w  per
-        1960/81-100  capita
i                                                       hS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jl  1980/81-100
i        ( r azoV=   (I'' x      ( r 000) (w 0 c0    ( 2)     ( ti ooo   ( s)    (r COD0)     ( [' a )
1985/86    156,'      1.2.2       6,263     7,515      48         _        .
191w/85    134,L55    11,1',      7,731    8,87        6.6        -        _
1983/84    I,O6         733       6,2w     6,935       4.3      6,519     6S         3,679       0.56
191/83     138,716      210       2,386    2,59        L9       1,378    47S           8"        0.14
19U8L/     138,724       34       2,65     2,68        L9       1, 55    Ez          I,m         0.12
19081    165,39          66       3,316    3,384       2.0      4,246   2U.52        3,205       0.53
1979/80    147,830 D    44        2,643    3,067       2.1     2,726    1L L        2,6a        0.45
1978/79    13,479       43        1,171     1394       1.2      1,007    36.I        1,0X7       0.18
1977/78     96,224       29       1,070     1,199      1.2        87     27.=        1,056
1976/77     60,189      220       2,196    2,416       4.0      1,674    30.7:      2,180
co: Mu            .a                                                         -     _p_sds-c for  ^    W
Sw: B           A b     f.t       t       C*a  c.qt    wm



-62-
(Lus ce'uwn '6662                        'NU
961    1913    :9     fou       396    14       iw     Foul
..-                             ie sm
POW   *IY2.6Ca                                              219.7   3.3l   171   941.3    13,5 15.3 1 03_.    128.1
2,033   W "KI su3                                           2,6Th? 4.733 31-1.318,196.4  I41.6  2#034  3,996.  b4b.
3.    IIUSU  U 121   ftV. 1133.319,.4966 W4P66.2 U.E1.4  1.644.11.    0413.4209.7
m. mess~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~-ooto                                                          .mooSN 
a. inmmnm                                   5,099.4 ~~~~~~~~~t CU _   #eta i..e oa.0 431   m.9   us.
L.41 181                                                       694.4    10.6    U.,   W.l    416.5       4.0     4.3 0
it~~~~~ tp-                                                        01.  tl      am7      Mt         M-9  rlo #
It      U n       ~     2    Y3.03                                                     3.3      16.9                    1.
6&4   M W                                                  149304 1.34.1   Not9 W.S4  1411   4 9.3 21.2463
C. m    e  m   mlu 
W. 313     W Uf.m          PM   *         S  as  3             13.64   166.9   U.I    8. 4      74    10.4    4.a 9   599,1
1.t6   9                            _1.4    3.51   10.  31.                                     6S4  1M.e   hm          M4t
t_l_ 8     ft2.                                               IV-    mls   .W          am       7.9    7.3    3dI   ,ows
46 0.3  aS 0.3  1AM           3w f8                            51.      11.3   3Ml   364        13.9     7.4   11.2   14.4
L.31 M     AN     S GfP                                        1W.*    M4    114  16            Noy   413.4    66.    914.1
6UUUina                UU Imm                                  WI    98 .8   15.8 1 8e           0.1    3.9    W.3   I914
**-I"  f_            0       1                                  IG11.4.0.    @4                  'Mt. ?1   NW    2M .4 W.4
t. _t s r43
1. ow            n   MT80.1                                  1.143    46.7    Ott   WA67       43u      W3.    2.3  10493.0
2. 08809ran                                                  3.318.3 3.073.    W5J  7.W.   1.IL4  5o.1.    46.2  4471.4
1. Um_ m                                                       3*W4     9.     W3.    6_        104    14.7   292.9  662.4
4. 0       m~ E   UZ*VIU                                     2306.3l  .474.0  I,18   4PO3.4  lP.J        8.4   721A  2,140.2
L  mm                                                          16 s1.9   W.    a.:  lt?.U,   mae   .IV         us.      m..
I. am                                                          34       7.4                   t .l                      as 29.  4.  4.3    3.2
2.   i                            t147.9   15.3   14.4   3.1                                     44         84 M       2 2I.4
L. lOiUs                                                       141.    w.       ft?   36.2        .     314    4.3   1. .2
4.    mm    31t16                                              0., 2.w.1  2061.1 6*x..           l.26.0  Is.13.  i.*M
~~.ig  N30WIni.                                                       OPS3   ,6.7  21.31.  loill.#  412.18   1.109,4218.2 3.7?4.3
1_B .    mm   -                                                "    11 .V        94.2 2.319     3.,     1.6   142.2  1,440.,
OLI ^1  _M  lo op1_e W
to 31210  L1        I ML                                     lo2.22)   7123 1.18.2 3,2664    43.1   117.4   712.3 I,,49,
2. vm                                                         M9.3   M&#   18.9   75.4    I48    114.4  .81.    I.5
3. 1E18    mi                                                  M$4 3112       MA    794    1.4    464    3.0    43.0
4.  PON0  3UEU  W Is                                           MI. 2.2990   364  3.184    19.7 1#271.2  iwI 1.1231-
L. PON         4      R1 396                                   344.3   VIL    11.3  9_.?    26.4  1d9.6  146.   112.0
_     .   n        ~5 0                                    2*.41.  3,. X.13 .44  .W*w.         1 1.0.02,991    ,18^.2  *1..3
?sgaL zoomsi         PLM  C"o                                    23.41.!  -M 1.3430.34 71.36.   13.W.0 S.40.2 140494.6 43.086.1
t. ~ ~  ~        ~        ~                                          m 



-Am   1, Tablo 13
-63 -                        Pa gI of 3
b. of swim
iw    iws   IM   mu.
--    mX    1       "
PM   -WAU cam
tliao wakoce  r Sk. Diatr. Offlt.      3     3      3       9
S_us, = wot                            3     3      3       9
bdt       _~usm,wtm adC                9           13      X
n ad % ,,N S ia                3      3      3       9
*etrd1suit tcuim               3      3     3        9
_ftg~wrcniq i"Mops, dit.i              9    12      s      36
's,mu    t_                            3     3      3       9
-  h   pu ubap., vi1V ba _h am        3     3      3       9
'_-i~m tzsl.im, Yi1uS b1*b e.          9    12     1       3
Am-IgmiW    48cdiact visits            9    12    153
D1 iat *Xat                            9    12    1 5
m     r, m       AND mXm"
iq*_ of  I    S7Itm
li.1 tem                               1     1      1       3
Di.e1at taiai                          3     3      3       9
f=r tal       4m                       1     1      1       3
a%g Pritpam ad afly
m4m1 s.    apsusy                      1     0      0       1
$k   o O     a1s/wfly oft i            1     0      0       1
Jm_  ew &m Iu aw,(030 VW go.)          2     2      2       6
_. fur an pSl (130p pw)               3     3      3       9
?8mZ iLn~
F ad auft
11 bulmh tf                            1     1      0       2
wqi teraw,  mFy diem.            1      1      1       3
c 0aft CuomoIs  sfm                    1     1      1       3
TO - nc"is MhellowOflw
ad Aas1  ma                         1     1      1       3
ftm   Gmm"  na  tlw                    1     1      l       3
Tz      C c1ia of., 
G  Ai.O1  D1                        1     1      1       3
d1sui.t a -.
,icre PI                             a s36



-64 -
AMx  1, Table 13
Page 2 of 3
lb. of S m
9w7   196    1999    Total
tram    for MCU                             13      15       39
im           f frm  tn ian           11    13       15       39
ftim          for vill  bmlth com in X    3  3       3        9
1n   wwCes fo Tr Dti=                 2      2       2        6
T=hs* iqwmsefor Me                   12    14       14       40
lWsb  trainft  GzAI  for M            0      0      14       14
Trait*  mag   forM   in uj uit        6      6       6       18
Tra4=  gmm fw womn   PFP
in uwrid                           3      3       3        9
h=Lml -
casemWVfrW                            1   1    1              3
tcmafwr                               6      6       6       1i
TWOiniqcuufor Wll                    12    12       U        36
TMiW  =mm  f_ lad         1m,        24    24       24       72
Trim     C cau  fw Ptl
Ltiny ia .ns                       6      6       6       18
Tanq-         afor ~tl 1 Ltwu
mQInw ff3                          3      3       3        9
TrAW    wsu fo   - SOCN               1      1       1        3
.ahft Cownfw_ m 70"                   1   0    0              1
al t11y - -6 - emm fw M yon vomv0            1       1        2
Trin  COIWM fur SI   A  &21          12    12       12       36



- 65 -
Annex l, Table 1'
Page 3 of 3
MOAK:        vaK x waMU HM mI
5. OVS 'PADW
No. of hub.
1967    1966   1969   Total
FUtblsmt of )Iw    Fliw         Comity
Oawmuulnh (1Qyr)                        1      0       0         1
lrws   of __e Spt_
hel1m.b (I(lh)                           3      3       3        9
UmItb Pluini
%ulth ?laww, log come (I y)             1      0       1         2
W1th Pauiz,  bort wne" (3 inhis)         0      1       0         1
bipi  7iamiF   (6  .1)                   2      0       0         2
DM ptnt    ad Suply
Di" iati  (3 me, 2 pa )                  2      0       0         2
Do* Aaisiai(6 *u)                        1      0       0         1
Qjelity Col (6 moh, 2 pm)                0      2       0         2
Dnw On.acwe (3 mbs, 2 p )                2      0       0         2
.'b1 -
ov o tuiam Q nod(1 , 10 I)              10      0       0        10
bdm,ca   cic  md Ccmtato
0_w    tmuIi (3   t, 3 p me)             3      0       0        3



- 66 -
A       1. Table 14
MU AIa  1300  hhALT! I0WJM
IDA fiscal Tear       Diabtaruaet          Actmulatd              Accumulative
and Quarter          ducrta  Quarter       Disburement           Disburseamt
*ndinx                  (98E000) EXE000                         ,     S
FT1988:
Sept. 30. 1987             0                    0                     0
Doe. 31. 1987              0                    0                     0
March 31. 1988           330                  330                     3
June 30. 1988            330                  660                     6
7Y1989:
Sept. 30, 1986          330                   no                      9
Dec. 31. 1968            660                 1650                    15
March 31. 1989           660                 2310                    21
June 30. 1989            600                 2970                    27
nlsso . t- -
Sept. 30, 1989          770                  3740                    34
Dec. 31, 1989            770                 4510                    41
March 31, 1990           770                 5260                    48
June 30. 1990            770                 6050                    55
7T1991:
Sept. 30, 1990          7 U                  6765                    62
Dec. 31. 1990            725                 7460                    68
March 31. 1991          605                  6065                    73
June 30. 1991            605                 am0                     79
7Y1992z
Sept. 30, 1991          495                  9285                    84
Dec. 31. 191            495                 9O0                      as
March 31. 1992          365                 1O006                    92
June 30. 1992            365                10450                    95
111993:
Sept. 30, 1992          320                 10670                    97
Dec. 31, 1992            220                10690                    9
March 31, 1993            65                10955                    99
June 30. 193              65                11020                   100
I/  hpectod project co.let4.a   June 30. 1992
2/  xpected closing tate:           June 30. 1993



- 67 -
Annex 1, Table 15
ISwn:   sCI  FBX3L3t
197     1906    1999
1u  of d distr  ics tdise HE                                 2       2        2
R.u   of at  cmm   .iutabui                                   7        9       9
b    t7s of tuian -  MMe:
d go 1   h, . Dbtr. Officu                      3        3       3
_    isa4m                                        3    3    3
m   a             t    adC                        9      12       15
Aree-lwml  nt           *Xvisits                           9       12       15
District visits                                            9       12       15
ti3m,  wuisi    for di  ict
-oo~                                                 15     1D        15
~i mi  ft i                                        13      15       15
* ~for metwooa 1in15C1
,     ^oatc Jw Vilim  1ei
6    in CB                                               3        3       3
Ofd in lie. t    6  *    of Sp
wit      di       c   _  Sr WE (3 de),
CI  (3 dam) ad                                            50       65      80
P _WIMqS of chlo  9-12 ib    of a" vith
_1e. baiutim                                              50       60      70
Subw of  eopn of f ol.s  W21u tim                           =0    3670    5210
M    f    of incqcm    at iajw.1                          120    140    162
16b  of TM uns                                             50M      62D     7470
Subw of pill  u                                           27500   3000   3532D
xiw of c          us                                       290 4O20    590



- 68 -
Annez 2
Documents Available in Prolect file
1.  World Bank.  Population Sector, Review, 1986
2. Government of Malawi. FJ_ily health Project Proposal
3. Government of Malawi. National Health Plan (1986-1995)
4. Planning Unit. Population and Realth in Malawi, 1984.
5. Planning Unit. Manpowers Current Situation, future NHeds, Issues of
Managemnt. 1984.
6. Planning Unit. The Use and function of Managsemnt Information in the
Delivery of Health Care Services. 1984.
7.   Planning Unit. The Potential for Income GCneration and Cost Savings in
the Ministry of Health. 1984.
8.   Planning Unit.  Ministry of Health:  The Bulget Foroulation Process.
1984.
9. Planning Unit. Strengthening Primary Health Care. Principles.
Policies and Strategics. 1984.
10. Planning Unit. Health Sector Analysis and Imarging Program_ing
Strategies in the Health Sector. 1964.
11. Planning Unit. Pharmacoutical Logistics. 1984.
12.  Jacobson. S.  Appraisal of Civil Vots Component of Proposed Family
Health Project. 1986.
13. Ayalew, S. Iconoamic Analysis of Proposed amily Health Project. 1986.
14. Hoban, P.C. Appraisal of INC Component of Proposed FImily Health
Project, 1986.
15. Detailed Cost Tables for Proposed Jasily Health Project, 1986.
16. Bulatao. IA. Acceptor Targets for Malawi. 1986.
17. Details of Training Activities to be carried out under Faaily Health
Project. 1986.



- 69 -
Detile   Cit Tables (SuasarX Ac-clunts)
1.         Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Year Including
Foreign Exchange Aeount and Percentage (K)
2.         Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Base Costs and
Contingencios (USS)
3.         Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Year.  Totals Include
Contingencies (K and US$)
4.         Project Costs by Exponditure Category and by Bass Costs and
Contingencies (K)
Project Costs by Functional Component and by Year (K)
6.         Project Costs by Functional Coeponent.  Totals Include
Contingoncies (K and US$)
7.         Project Costs by Expenditure Category and Functional Component (K)



70 -                                         Annex  3.
K"*LAN                                       Table 1
uECO0N FMILY HEA.TN PMOJECT
Surw Aowts bw Year
(Local Crrmncm '000)
Base Costs                       Forain Exchang
19t7    198       19    1990    1991    Total          Z     Amsomt
uwaaaaa uuuaawu  asamaauu  ua:acam mama::. :zaazX=am  mss: amuasm:
1. INVESTIENT COSTS
A. CIVIL ORKS                             S.230.4  7.521.2  2.996.7   392.6   301.6 199442.6    39.7   7p713.0
B. FUMNITUkR                                3M4.9    542.8    361.6   36.0          -  1,287.3   37.7    485.0
C. ATERIALb                                  780.7   881.2  1,403.7 1.442.9 1.432.2  S940.7    69.7   4P141,6
D. EQUIPENT                                  7.3    383.3    392.4   26.0    11.2  1.386.3   91.8   1,369.3
E. UENICLES                              1I213,9    149.6       14.9   14.9   14.9  1.406.2   99.0   1,394.3
F. TECNNICAL ASSISTANCE                    2o240#3   466.1    195.3  138.7  138.7  3,179.1   100.0  3M9.11
6. DESIGN FEES                             1,287.0                 -        - -     -  1287,0      0.0       0.0
H. MONITORING * RESEARCH * EVMLUATION        250.8    45.9      66.4    45,9    66,4    475.4    0.0         0.0
1. ACTIVITIES                                  9.1        -        -        -       -      9.1     0.0       0.0
J. TRAININ6                                1.65d.7  19527.7  1,554.5  700.9  700.9  64142.8    0.0           0.0
K. OvumSEAS TRAINING                         344.0     87.4     21.9        -       -    453.3   100.0     453.3
Total IJESTNENIT COSTS                       16.935,2 11.605#1  7,007.5 2W798.1 24666.0 41.011.8   45.7  18.735#6
I1. RECUMRENT coSTS
A. SALARIES                                 191.8   313.7    313,7   113.7   313,7  1P446,7       0.0       0.0
D. UENICLE OPERATION ANI NAINTENANCE        280.2    310.9    310.8  310.8  310.8  1.523,2    79.8   1.215,2
C. EDUIPIENT M^INTEICE                        4,1     26.2     53.3   59.0    57.1   199.7    79.8    159.3
D. IJILDINS MAINTMEII                           -     93.3    251.1   281.8  291.9   918.2   79.8         732.5
Total REDoWT COSTS                             476.0    744.0    928.9  965.3  973.5  4.087M   7    51.5  2M106.9
Total  A INElIM  COSTS                        17,411.2 12.349.1  7.936.4 3763.4 3t639.4 45099.5   46.2  20484246
Physical Contingencies                      19120.3   959.9    538.3  214.4  199.6  3P032.6   52.1   1,579.0
Price Continencies                          1W204.3  2.063.5  14972.0 1.219.7 1,478.2  7P937.7   46.6   3.695.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                           199735.8 15,372,5 10,446.7 5,197.6 5,317.2 56.069,9    46.6  26W117.3
a33333333    29 mam anua  mauu  wall utz C----  Zaamasu:  33amzaaaaaaus12X
Taxes                                        264.7    255.7    177.8    49.4   51.3   798.9         0.0       0.0
Forein Exchanm                              9.6926  6.545.7  4.558.1 2631.6 2.689.3 264117.3        0.0       0.0
Fgbruar  51997  17:56



Annex 3
Table 2
If01  EMIL! WANi NIET
1111 11IF111 1111 iCI
tmcal Ct, ----igs              Price Ctam                                t_                    
Lw-al                         L NI                                -----                       Pric  eoo.
Ltocl lEiI. %tin a             For. (EnI.  itnh I            For. htw. MEs I                       Local (tiw. Mios I            on facol
For. [nc.   T_uo)    barn    ToLal  E(ig. las) Tons  total   End. Tows)  Taxes  Total For. E h.   Taws)    Toms    Ido                          CWA
1. D101M cm
A. CL                                     3,11.5       5,34.4   2A.4  9,721.3  N6.  5U.4    23.0  972.1  13.0  106.7             5.1 327.1    *M2.2        6.37.5   261. IllQI.2         1901.9
D. F ll                                     242.5         3.4    12.0   643.7  24.3  U.S           1.3   64.4   9.1  14.5        6.5  24.1      275.8        441.7    14.4   7U.2           66.6
C. Iw_1                                   2.070.8        16.3    43.2  2'9.3 237.1  I$.6           4.3  297.  122.1  503.        2.7 17S.2    240..          92.2    50.3  3442.6          313.0
L. _                                        666.7            -      O.5   693.1  6U.5       -      0.e   69.3  23.9       -      0.3 24.2       m.o              -      9.7    16.7         71.5
t. UO                                       697.1            -      6.9   704.1   9.7?  -0.0       0.7   70.4   1.0   0.0        0.2  1.2       7M2.             -      7.9   7".7          71.9
F.    in     IS                           1,.                -        - lP.M         -      -        -       -  42.5      -        -   .5s    l62.0              -        - l1W.0              -
L       11M                                     -        "1.0    12.4   643.5        -      -        -       -     -  11.1       0.2  11.3          -        642.1    12.7  U54.J              -
IL  _ _   * 1 1  *   M           U              -        237.7        -   237.7      -      -        -       -     -   U.S         -  U.S           -        246.5        -   240.5
1.  TITI                                                   4.         -     4.6      -      -        -      -      -   0.1         -  0.1           -          4.6        -     4.0            _
J.                                              -      3471.4         -  3.071.4     -      -        -      -      -  121.1        - 13.1           -      3d".5          - 319".5 
S. _n It 1mi                                 220.7           -        -   226.7      -      -        -       -   5.1      -        -5.3          231.7           -        -   231.7            -
Iotal"    U3       S m9367.6    10623.8   314.3 2055.9  75S.2 667.9                                  3.2 1,473.3  30.7  462.6    12.1 763.4    0.471.0    11.914.3   356.6 fl742.5    125246             
It.         cm
A. *hI                                         -        723.3        -   73.3       -      -        -      -      -  37.3         - 17.3           -        760.6       -   70.&              -
*. wEI      MITIt  Mm u_ u1I               60 17.0      154.0        -   701.6  12.2   3.1              15.2  30.7   7.0          - 3U.5       65.4         164.9       -    I5S.3         16.0
C. E(iJWt Imusyn                            79.6         20.2        -    9.6   4.0   1.0           -    5.0   5.0    1.3         -  6.2        0.6          22.5       -   111.1           5.3
0. WIL1I1 UhIUWAl                         336.2          92.6       -   459.1  1.2   4.6          -   22.8  23.8   6.0           - 29.6       466.?        103.5       -   511.7          24.2
10142 KCIM   CUTS                            1.053.5        990.4       - 2t043.9  34.4   8.7          -   43.1  5 .4  52.3          - I1l.6     19147.2     1.051.5        - 29101.7         45.5
1.1.                                         10,421.3    119114.2   314.3 22#549.8  719.5 696.6    30.2 1s510.3 406.1  454.9    12.1 875.1    IP1116.9       129965.7   35.6 24#91.2        1,576.4
F*uwrv 5. 167  17:S



- 72 -
Annex 3
Table 3
IIAUWI
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Su.maw Accowts bw Yti
Totals Includind Continu.'iies                         Totals Including Contirnicies
(Local Cutter,w  '000)                                      (CUs  '000)
1987     1988      1989    1990    1991    Total       1987    1988    1989    199O    l991    Tobl
:AXsXssX  :S:::esg 222Z2222 ZZsZZ s =s==:=g :    ZZZ =s=::=2 =sXaXX az=  2XX&ZX3  :s==eB  =axaraz :sSZZzs
1. IWMSTIENT COSTS
A. CI'JIL M S                               941Al.9  9.556.0  4,063.5   U4.3   459.5 24285.2  4W606.3 4,32.5 1 ^: 34   228.6  IO.1 11.021.2
3. FIMNITUI                                   406,4    689.6    490.3    51.7          -  1F638.1    194.2   309.1   208.0    21.0           -    732.2
C. MATERIALS                                   914,6  1,119,6  1,903,4 29073.9 2,1M2G0  8,193.4    436.9   501,7   807.3   840.7   955.9  3,442.6
D. ESUIPII)fl                                 671.6    487.0    532.1    37.4    17.1  1,745.3    320.8   218.3   225.7    15.2            6.7    786.7
E. MENICMES                                 19422.1    190.1       20.2    21.4    22.7  19676.4    679.4    85.2        8.6      9.7      8.9    790.7
F. TECIICAL ASSISTAMCE                      2,3M5G9    538.3    240.8   181.3   192.2  3,538.4  1,139.8   241.3   102.1    73.5    75,4  1,632,0
6. ESIMN FEES                                1,370.6         -        -        -       -  1,370.6    654.8         -        -                -    654.8
H. MONITORING r RESEARCH , EVALUATION         267.1      53.0      81.8    60,0    92.0    553,9    127.6    23.9    34.7    24.3    36.1    246.5
1. ACTIYITIES                                   9.7         -         -        -       -       9.7      4,6        -        -       -        -      4,6
J. TRAINING                                 1,766.5  1.764o6  1,916.3   915.9   970.8  7,334.0    843.9   790.9   812.7   371.3   380.8  3,199.5
K. OWSEAS TRAINING                            366.4    100.9       27.0        -       -    494.3    175.0    45.2    114          -        -    231.7
Total IIJESTNET COSTS                          19,222.7 14,499.2  9,275,3 3,905.9 3,936.2 50,9839.3  9,1834 6,497.8 3#933.9 1593.4 1.544,0 22,742.5
:=::==:: s:ss:==:  ::::=::Y  =: =     =  :    :     :     :       :       :== ====== =  ::c::== :;::::=:
11, RECIRIENT COSTS
A. SAARIES                                   204.3    362.4    386.7   409.9   434.5  1,797.6         97.6   162.4   164.0   160.2   170.4    760.6
D. UEHICLE WERATION AND MAINTENANCE          304.3    366.1    390.7   414.2   439.0  1,914.4    145.4   164.1   165.7   167,.9   172.2    815.3
C. EOUIPIENT MAINTEWCE                          4.6     31.8      69.0    80.9    83.0    269.3        2.2    14.3    29.3    32.8    32.5    111.1
D. DUILDINI MAINTENNCE                            -    113.1    325.0   386.6   424.4  1,249.1           -    50.7   137,9   156.7   166.5    511,7
Totl REDLET COSTS                                 513.1    873.4  1,171.4 1291.6 1P381.0  5S230.5    245.1   391.4   496.8   523.6   541.7  2,199,7
:x333gg*: :3S::::  a:S ss:$ S::=s: : :S::=38   38388383  8       ==::::: :=:====  8::==:S8
Totl PROJECT COSTS                              19t735.8 15,372.5 10,46.7 5,197.6 5,317.2 564069.8  9,428.5 6,889.2 4,430.7 2,107.0 M2065.7 24941.2
3s88s3:3  33.s.3ss a5333a3z  83zs23  83a8333    z 3  8      c38338s  s3:. =3 ::      Z==            :  c



Annex 3
Table 4
SECIII FAuLT IEl  UfCT
(Lwal Currenci. '0)
Price Cent iMUICLca
saw. caoI                          Physical Caamtndimcaao         ------------- ------------                     Total ladl. Coat.
-              --------------                                   cal ------------------------ L.  -
Local (Exci. bties I                     Local (Excl. Miss I                     (Excl. buties I                    Local (ECxI. blitift I
For. Ezuh.   Tos)    Taxes   Total   For. Exch.   low            Taxes  Toal   For. Excl. Tas)  Tixes  Toal   Far. tE-h.   Tas)             Tam    Total
1. uWnTw  CrTS
A. CML                                     WM 7,713.0    11.2d.U   466.8 199442.6    771.3     1.t26.?    46.1 1,944.3   1149.8 1*676.3    72.2 23M.3   9*64.1    14,72.0   39.1 24.2K.2
I. F1AIT                                   405.0       776.7    25.6  19267.3       4*.5         77.7      2.6  129.7        03.7  123.6      4.3   mA         617.2        M.0    33.0  I.U0.1
C. alumli                                 49141.6     112.6    36.5  S94.7           41%.2       171.3      8.6  594.1    1v56.4  476.1    26.2 1656.7    59712.1          2,356.?   121.4 3.193.4
0. E IT1                                  1,309.3           -    17.0  1,36.3        136.^         0.0      1.7  138.6       217.1    0.0      3.2  220.3    1,723.4          0.0    21.9  1SM3
E. WENIS                                  1,394.3           -    13.9  1,406.2      139.4         -0.0      1.4  140.8       125.6    0.0      3.6  127.4    1,49.3           0.0    17.1 1J4A 4
F. ITE .kY CCISTAW                        3,179.1           -        - 3,179.1           -           -        -      -       359.3      -        -  339.3    3530.4             -        - 3,333.4
6. K513 FEES                                    -      1w262.1    24.9  1,217.0          -           -        -       -          -   82.0      1.6   83.6           -      1,344.1    26.5  l.379.6
N.   I1S1I  9  Q4 0    E  TICII                 -       475.4        -   475.4           -           -        -       -          -   73.5        -   79.5           -        553.9       -    53M.9
1. ITIVC TIT5                                   -         9.1        -     9.1           -           -        -      -           -    0.6        -    0.6           -         9.7        -     9.7
J. 151316                                       -     6,142.8        - 6142.8            --                   -      -           - ,1IV1.2       - 19191.2          -      7,334.0       - 7.334.0
11. M         TUIM                          453.3           -        -   4S3.3           -           -        -       -       41.0       -  -   -   41.0        494.3         0.0        -   494.3  1
Total ?IIREII  CUT1S                        1i97]5.6    21647.5   626.o 4141.6   13,510.3         19375.8    40.4 2,946.5    3M132.8 3,638.3   109.9 6,331.0   23373.8    269661.7   793.9 56e3. W
11.    uIn  CsUs
A. s"11m                                       -     19446.7        - 3U446.7           -           -        -      -           -  5I.1        -  351.3           -       n7.3         - l.797.3
3. OlUQ      MOTIN Ma  *IuMlEIW          1,213.2       30 .1        - 1.523.?        24.3         6.2        -   30.5                 nS.9    T0  -  360     3.527.?       367.2        -  1.914.4
C. EUWJ  MIilIrEdW                         159.3        40.4        -   19.7          8.0         2.0        -   10.0        47.6   12.1        -   59.6       214.8        34.5        -   269.3
*. 11131  _En11                            732.3       185.7        -   918.2        36.4         9.2        -   45.7       227.5   57.M -  295.2              906.4       M52.6        - 19249.1
1tt I          -EII  IS                      2*16.9      1,90.8         - 4P0677?        M.7   IJ.4              -   86.1       562.U   43.8        - 90U56.7    29738.5     2v492.0        - 523*.S
Total                                       M20642.6    2342.4   623.6 45,099.5    1579.0          1.393.2    60.4 3t032.6    1M-75.7 4e132.1   109.9 7937.7   26h17.3    299153.7   796.9 56W.9
F_euouw Srz 15 17:56



-74 -
Anex 3
Table S
SECOND FMILY   ALTN PROJECT
P oNJct colpor-.rts b0  leaJ
'Local !urfrf,c 0;C'
Lal1
iast :its                     .-
,----,,-- - ---   Loca
19r'      1938       *''    1"75    iSl :C'ICrtr1   Usl '000)
sS1s::   .::::  ass:::;; 5::.::::   :;zSZ    :1:3S2sS * S:s:5
i.. PF 1P  HEALTh CWE
. ...... ................ .
r,fFll   Y HEA^LTH CA.                                        304.''   ::5,e0    :E                           T7o 4o;  ,4       467 3
EXTEN05,3  OF MIEALTH SERVICES                                       :l65.5   :Sel,1:  3d145             , ;:: ,o '.  ^   i   t.4    41453.'
3'  STRENGTHENING Of THE HOSPITAL SYSTEM                      50v 8  ::47.8    4    '        ;        30.6   5.:7co3    ; e38:
... ............................. ............ ......... ........ ............. .......  -----  -----
Sut-Total PRIRY WEALTH CARE                                      4SO,c  5,474.'  34900.5   410.i   3t1'  15,15684    '"S ,2
t. W4A6EENT  . MIOWER AND SUPPOlT SYSTEIS
;  NkSIN  EDUCATION                                            S3'    1.067 0       i1.       i 31.2    31.3   :4116.3 1i 0591
INSERVICE TRAININK                                            74'        20.2      :        ";:    20.:  .S5   t:61:       414.1
3. ESTAL.IUIEIT Of WVER CWAP:!TY                                 3c,4                   -                -       36.4        18.2
4. INPROWEENT OF M141NCT  SYSTEtS,
SUPEfRVIS12' AD  PERSNL                                     15' 6      85.1      t.1         -        -      33<.0       163.0
S. HEALTH f'L*11151                                              tO,      21 1 :6 v.          6 0      64       I s  7       :1 Sz
6  FIIWKCIL PLANING                                             1443    16.5    141 10 i4.0   14i              7c5. 6      'oS
7. WEALTH AND  "ELTN       I1    IWORM71ON0                    236.5       11.4     31.o   li .        ;-4      it          151.1
S.  RU  PRIAJCTIWI AID U,Pt'                                       .4   4o 'o   ,4'.    ii6           35.9    Io,;3.7          .
9. INTElATION OF SEIICES AT REGIONAL LEVEL                     :46.4      s1.t      Sit.     61.(    6;.t       47:.4       :U. 2
Sub-lota. IIMAENT  * HAOWNt AND SUF;OFT SYSTElS                 3.307  i,;0     .     549.:   431.6   326.1                  W23.7    3.326.3
C. FA4Mi 4EALTH
.. ......._ ..
rATERNL AND CHILD HEALTH                                  1141.1    56e.4    55e' :35.5   5i'.5   3.lO.5    11405.3
;. CHILD SPIACIM                                             395::.9  :>634.2    '45.0   :38.5   :36.5  i0401.1   31700,e
3. IJTRIT1ON * OH                                               89.e      75.:    13 .e   137.6   137.o         577.6       23.1
.    ... ..... .. ... .. .. . ..__....... ... ...___ 
SiL-Total FMNILY HEATH                                         5w26.6  3,:7, i   .458.c   911.7   911.7  1129.:    57.794.6
DI P8OJ!CT KIAIGT FOR PART A
..._...._....._._.._.. ......
1. PROJECT   SIEW   T                                        19443    2.4           e ..4    6:.4   :e:.4   :w93.7    1.496.9
Suti-Totil PJtCI IW       NElNT FOR PIT A                        1444.3    ;e:.4    :6;.4   ;e;.4   :42.4   24993.           1.496.9
E. h-TH  TOH  OTMI NINISTRItS
..........                        
; UTTRITION THOM   NO                                          374.0    354.4    35;.3   3v.1   3e3.0   1,006.1            904.4
2  VUNCTIOk. LITEIUCI  IIIL  1M                             1.127.0    611.1  1 0PO.1 1.024.3 it020.6   4.616.0          :400.0
3. YOUTH PROII                                                  278.1    177.3    143.3   143.   143.9          36.:        443.1
4. ItlOTIIN, EUATION
AND CIUWICATION                                             301.1    20/.4    239.;    :  i   ;:.9   1.194.6             597.3
Syi-ToUl HEALTH ThUSGH OTHER MINISTRIES                          2,0001   1,35.2  1,765., 1746,.9 1755.6   5,705.5    4,352.1
. .. .. . ..  . . ..   -_  --     ---- .                 ...... . -  - _  .. 
Totil IAIELINE COSTS                                             17411.: 121349.1  7,934.4 3.763.4 30439.4  45P097.5   22.50.1
Phwt: al COntUIiffIcIII                                         l.120.3    95Y.l    531.3   214.4   19 .6   3,032.4    1.516.3
Price Ccrtithmci.                                               1.204.3  2P0%3.5  1,972.0 1.t1.7 1#478.*   7,937,7            375.1
ow el OJCI tOSTs                                                15 97m.3 1s.37,51 0.74.? 597.  5,31.S   56O4'.1-   :4941,.2
gma2,11  "Ise  &aa ss               ans   tg s   a a:s;: a a*aaSg asg
T.,n ^64.7    2ss.7                                                                  177.3    49.4    I1.          9.9        356. 
Fortia  Exchig                                                  b 7.6  0.5452   4551.1 2463I.& ;t .3             : :  .    1 I1.41M.9
__,_,,_,,_ ___- ..... ... . .. ... ...                                       . ..  ....    . . ............
F0tue* 5. 193'1756* 



Annex 3
Table 6
m"I
project (inr.tas by Te~ar
lmtUh 3nClu6sod ERL   *PKuwe l0 otals lr.ck'jang CuntIMPIKaCS
(Local Evivowv 'M)                                         (US$ '000)
Mq       ism      I,3       MGo   19wi    Total       i,8r    I9j    2939    i9Y        2991    lota.
A, P93OWT VMJLN COW
i. F'SlY  VUAL1N t.                                          337.1    310.0    355.8    31.5    90.3  1,274.0    261.1   138. 1250.6    33.0    35.4    319.0
E. XTENSIN  V  (00192 SW0IIUS                            2.520.6  3,761.1 4,267.2   42,7.0   435.7 1.46   ,4.1.5.  10.3 1.2                          2.9 .055.7
3. S1NMTKEI(N1    OF 1HE NWI100 STSTII                     1.8.   2,853.1    629.5    40.3    43.3  6,451.3  19373.3 I2.6 267.0    16.5,   17.0  2.757.5
sub-Total.I fl'       2(0013 CIA                              5,742.3  6,9?4.2.25.    579.3   569.3 IT.067.4  .27,43.6  MOM3.  2.727.4  234.8   223.3  8.532.2
S. N     V11WN  , riNPWK   AW  9DP3I STSICUS
3.     15i [NOTIN                                          1.0,3.0  1.381.1      40.2.    43.0    45.6  2.&I'      524.6   639.0    17.2    17.4    17.9  1,196.0
2. IUFICE 13A2NI36                                           816.3     24.2      25.7    27.2'    27.8    930.9    418.6      Mt.   10.9    11.0    10.,    462.:
3. ESTW3UUWIT OF  WNIVI CWALI1T                               38.7                                         38.1      1B.5j                                     33.5
4. IWUWIINI OF NOWAN1 SISY2STtS
WEEISIU MS PEESSIL                                        168.1    1021.9    109.3                     330.8     80.3    46.1    46.6                       173.0
S.  "TN1 PtMIni                                               36.0      74.4      1.3    10.4    11.0    341.6       41.1    30.9     4..      4.2-    4.3      64.7
6. FIffiIA  LANNMING                                         160.2    733.5    1'4.1   1P4.6   M1.7   952.1          26.51  106.0    73.9q   74.8    76.8    406.0
7 . 10"13 AS 310T1         EI1MNI 10iffWR2ATN                252.;     13.1      38.9    24.9v   15.3    334.6    120.3       5.9    16. i     6.0     6.?    154.?
S . mm     KlaS  m   WPF'ti                                   5,.4    5 48.5    190.    2 95.3    50.3  I.M3.7    466.0   245.8    80.6    79.2    19.7   891.4                              I
9. 1311*UIIU  OF SERICES Al IEGISMI 12VWt                    265.2     94.1    100.4   106.5   2212.8    579.5       297.3   '4..7   42..6    43.7    44.3    251.13
Sub-1ot.l iNLmIVm  . 33eW    AN  52P92T S9115                  .89.FNS7.           689.5   511.9   459.0  7.975.1  ;474.   .087             4   735.9   180.1  1,620.0
C. FUAlLY MEA1HN
1. MTU2( M 4013 C      'I1001 T                            1,634.8    698.1    '31.0   748.1   773.0  4.605.0       8.0 317.8   310.'   2C.3   231.3  2,038.2
C.HILD WAE133                                            4.020.5,  3,232.7    954. 2   373.6   343.0  8.9,23.!  J.C7(7  1.4'1 1   404.7,  131.2   134.6  4.04:3
3. 331811200 . rmS                                           100.6     95.5    111f.6   117.3   209.7    790.:      48.1    47.8    '9.1    FO.7I   32.7   133.4
Sub Totll FANHy 31013                                         50, 5j. 9  4. 076. 2  1.673.8 1,261 .5i 1,145.7 14,317.1  -.749.6  3.826.6   23   , 14.6   57    6.413.0
3. 13ACT INWIFI F21 '481 A~
1. 110.101 RI1u 1                                          2.33       304.8    375.3   344.8   365. 5  3,424.3    1.5 136.4   133.0   339.    143.4  1,553.2
Su6. 1.t.l P335E1 MI(D           FOR FACT A                    -)GI.      104.R    175.3   344.8   365.5  3,424.3    M9.,   136.6  1338.0   137,.3   343.4  1,553.2
F. HEALTH T3133 09213 MINISTRIES
I. WM1I111TP    O III CS                                     420.0    430.5    46331   494.3  528. -:3              0.    107.9   196.4   200.6   207.4    93. 0
2. 133(11533 311ERKV  Io1n2 31N                            35,25. 3    741.6  1.344.;- 1,422..7 1,.502.7.' 6. 268. 4    600.6  -,             -.   589.5  7,669.3
3. 1341  PROMO                                               309.v   2.04.9    173.9   190.    201.9  1,307.6    143.0    97.2                77.9    77.     42.9~.
4. ivFmTIiu (MWAI1SI
An CONNIMPICA110"                                         346.2    263.5    372.0   324.5   344.4  1. 59. 7    165.4   228.2   236.6   12 7.5 3_ 35.1    63.7
5.k, lokal N1AL 134 THROUGH O131  31N3508115                  7,333.4  1,642.5  2,303.3 2,422.1 2,577.7 11122339  1,114.8  736.1   ?'9 -.0   932.9 1,013.1  4.3223
IGtal 111.1(  COST!                                            19, 735..3 li37,25 10,446.7   I I1I .6 5,31.2' 52,61.00  9,423.5 6.339.2 4,430.?7 2.107.0 :,M,035.24,941.2
lubr...arh 5. 193   17:56



- -   - m . -- - -- - -- - -- - -        - -   - - -- - -   -
gotgww mm~~~~~~~~mz                                                                                                                                                                                  mmn
1. oiian171-                                   -4 -                                    -6.4                                                                                                    M -                 -           -                         -.  n      -           -       
F. 1595   Muu                                            7.IW.3           4.16.0     3.64.4 62.012.1                                                                                               -     A.  3467             -2.       I-311           S9WIMS36.                               -1.4
L.                                               - F      In.9              41712      331..4                                                                                   3..                             943 I                         -VA4.                                                 SAWA.1.
IL iNO31011                                   64l2         29.4                                                                                                                                    -  1,0.1          -       3.2 1                         -        .16.?                 140.        am6.
wMiiSs                        ~~30.2                                                                                   -         6464                            3. -2                      63.    1'7    64                             111.16.6       -1.    -n.                    9.13.1
K. SWOONS                            -         72. 1113                        -                          -             -3 -9.                             -           -Ln.           -                 4-                                     -          296        --4   41
Al lMTk-                                                                                                                                                               -           -              -L M.  9.      -2              -                                      -        -             -       4.
D  Mm                                      in.. P2.1                                                                                                                  -      2313                -     60.214.    IAW4  8                -4.          60.4        462       475-41
C.  Uos    1-                                                                                                      14.4             6 C      44.1       44.1                   3213                    -             -           -                                    754        -          6.4      46."l
10.1   l         i                            824.4111      11.671         1..9       74.         742 Ms4                            164      13        11..82                  619.!             24 2.,.         10.73.      17.        24.           1.76.           J"1.      .411946
ftnod C"iamgw                   15.1         0l.9             -7.        W.1        27.6                -                -                2 I.1a                                    -.     W-    4sO?.?                      12.1          -A          aim       W                .a   16.
5644   Cmmm     6ml                             MA.          31.1.            521.1       94.       757        .4        -               8         -M    6171.            -       2.4            46.IL3    M 1.45.4  46.         -L         IU.      4.0  2L .1    76 30Ja                            44.M7
I"   lll~~  WS                     1.17~47.4   SI.62               001.1   SAWS           71.7              W7.             44      141.7       17.         53.4       1.93.          396.3    72.64  3.7.M      3.9             62.6AM      241.1        6.1116.4    16WA          M.IJ    MW.
3m                                  9.0         96.4             113.6~~~~~~~~1  4.4   2.44                                                                                           .4         -                 54                    .3  29233.                 7.1                    6.
PS..M  1ob                                    437.9       4.67.6           2,744.    %,16.        46.2              U.?             774.3     92.6      7118.         46.4    1.31.2            191.3:     o                   5~ .3 24"                WA.         54144    33J           1.M16.  3417



(IahE7AThM amf ir lIt PUN1SM OF WrA.1f                              CNRpf~AKtT I
Inteu1                                           Quid            .                Oddipd  f  cuf      f      df
Offfctr  AuDtor      Acw"-         Moin.      Oule         warit%,~yiim
L it        (gliepw      rovowel    plim"m                             (Ef1 if ft a
afo.                          (lW)
W&-    (M



lIIUN!EW tRW qIWJMI7AU9#. SllOJtIlRF-                            t IIAPT 2
|Prtnipall  nret 
at d~      (MCI          hut.  letrf           0.             fog_Odf                 ldef          SubuilM
1ualmhuw                          peumtrsonnel     Of Ibldif         Fmdi7       Kw-view,   IeMmc         1 iniI
OIfficer         SrVikt            Ifrnlth    SIfh,r               (1X1       fe 1
a                                                                                ISrt IC
r ~       ~~~~~~ ct
|   ,  s    ,(N
I-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W



-79 --
TABLE FOR MAP OF
PHASE I AND PHASE II DISTRICTS
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Serial No.              Sponsoring                                                                   _
of Stage    Year         Agency       Names of Districts                       Remarks
1      1978-83   JOMs MOH   Mzimba, Dowa, MWanza                      One district from each
region chosen as pilot
program: evaluation by
WHO/UNICEF mission in
January 1982; workplan
revised on that basis i,
July 1982.
2       1983-85     IDA         Mzimba, Dowa, Mwanza                  IDA project supported iAx
its first phase, the
pilot program districts i
3      Mid-1985  GOM'S MOH   Mulanje, Dedza, Ntcheu,                  Program this extended t,.
Karonga, Neanje, Chikwawa            9 districts (cuLuuiative)
Government and IDA, soon
thereafter in October
1985 commissioned evalw
tion of PHC program
('83-'85) in the three
districts of Mzimba,
Dowa and Mwanza.
"New"         New         t
Districts    Centers Gradations  These           districts are
thi 'new" districts in
4       5scond    TDA          a. rkhatabay        2         0        the second phase of the
Family                 b. Lilongwe         2         0        primary health care
"'ealth                 c. Chiradzulu      2         0        program.
Project                d. Runp;ii          1         1
e. Kas%.aju        1         1
f. Mangochi        1         0
Subtotal       9          2



-80-
WAIT? ifSl MAP fl
PHASE I AND PHASE II DISTRICTS
PRIAY HEALTCAR  PROJECT
Serial No.            SponsorinS
of State    Year        4 *ncy       Smes of Districts                      Imarks
'Old' Districts
Neow     M         In these distrtets, PlC
Centers gradations  program had already been
started in 1983 or aid-
a.  ziba          1         1        1985; however, there has
b. Dowa           2         -       been a need to
c. Hwanza         0         0       strengthen the existent
d. Nulanje        1         1        lnfrastructure with nay
a. Dedza          1         1       or upgraded health
f. Ntcheu         I                 centers.  At the szm
g. Karong         1         1        time, three of the nine
h. Chikwava       2         0       districts will be taken
i. Nsanje         1         0       up for Intensive
retraining, based on an
Subtotal   10         4        annual evaluation.
Thus, a total of 15
Total       19        6        district are Included
in the Second Phase.
Districts Still To Be Covered
a. Mehinji
b. Blantyre
c. Salima
d. 'achinga
*. Chitipa
f. Ntchisi
g. ?thota Kota
h. Zomba
__ Thyolo



3,--'      ,                            MALAWI
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
0     Health Facility Locations
Makrwi I - Districts (3)" ,5,
l      <   \                    ?                          Upgrode Health Centes (6)
-  I  s    Malawi 2  Districts (15)*t
Now Health Centers (19)
v    &e.b.  z                     Upgrade Health Centwrs (6)
Rivers
5/            ^                              @0    District Capitals
,'i RUMFP       , , 1                         ----------  District Boundories
-~f -                               f  ]>             --- Region Boundaries
/ ~ >g         -  -    Internotionol Boundaries
a   is              k                      *t i~~~~~~~~~~'00r to N"im report fror list of
/.4o _                                                    6 \iout of ths fiften, s.0 following
six districts ore take-, vp under te
, _'   . *t          ............   Second Protfct fo  he PtHC proPraM
t4~lU                           for th first time. Nkhoio &ay,
MZiM^A                                                   L Lslon. , Chrodzulu, Rsmphi,
A Ai A.                                      Kosungu, Mongoch. The otO'e nine
r   3 g  oJ>y  ,'   /                  include hre taken up with IDA
, /                                                                             }                 ossistance under the first proeclt. and
2C  7 .    p                     si by the Government in 19W3     '
ZAMBIA                                                  -{
K.LOMAiiA5 0   20  40   60  so ,OO
,/              **1      :
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0A    io -P^  .                                                          C
)   '.a ,                  J.WO 
/  CC NPFA I
.t  :    ,                      \    ~~~~~~~M O  Z A M. B I Q  U E
r                             ON W ._.7
"It                         1g.+ 'h                                           1'.W    f
IK   NIL
A y 0   A:
)M-AAMB OV*  i                                       -
'.,d'3*,44*,C&,1-T,,A\                                                      GS 
o ' wi 'w5o   ' wi t30      r
rp,,rr a' ., trrwt a  '_                                                              
A A N A  ~            iMMA 
~~~~.~.J  Ni                    O     ZA MB IQUE /Lon/
r'AN2AiA AA    19v,
't ><  ,V{V/ V fS 2
js~t          -4              v  N.'. 
|~ ~~* _'    5        As*_tOW$!
I'd .h                                                                  -- '          *         S
-" )                                      K            3d'F>XtA  \       
8G;eA   [ ~~~~ 5s ts   |_ _ _          \,>             g     r                    , .   .  .    . ,ANUAe-19S



