-.DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1768 MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Family Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1768 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  IkA4t. *', 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
financing the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(b) "MOCS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Community
Services;
(c)  "MOWS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works and
Supplies; and
(d)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-2 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 8,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account, in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. dollars a special account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993, or
such  later   date  as   the  Association  shall  establish.   The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Aslsociation a
service charge at the rate of three-fo-urths cf one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1997, and ending
February 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 15, 2007, shall be one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public health prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. Should the Borrower propose to make any
investment in the health sector which is not included in the
first  five   years  of   the  Borrower's  National  Health   Plan
(1986-1995), such investment shall be made by mutual agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accor-
dance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-5-
(ii) retain,   until   at  least  one   year  after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all   records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) as
evidence of such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's    representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether    the     statements    of    expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that:
(a) subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower to
finance the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and


﻿-6-
(ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                             4407 MI
Lilongwe


﻿7
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
6 -'C7Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works under         4,600,000         85%
Part A.1, A.2 and
A.3, and Part B.1
and B.2 of the
Project
(2) Vehicles, equip-          1,800,000          100% of foreign
ment, materials                             and 90% of local
and furniture                              expenditures
under Part A.1,
A.2, A.3 and A.4,
and Part B.1 and
B.2 of the Project
(3) Consultants'              1,500,000          100% of foreign
services and                               and 90% of local
training under                             expenditures
Part A.2, A.3
and A.4, and
Part B.1 and
B.2 of the Project
(4) Unallocated                 800,000
TOTAL                8,700,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied fro-i the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower    in
implementing  the  first  phase  of its National    Health  Plan
(1986-1995), with special emphasis on family health issues.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:   Ministry of Health:
1.   Primary Health Care:
(a) Expansion of the primary health care program from nine
to 15 districts, including training of health staff of MOH,
District Development Committees and Village Health Committees,
and the provision of equipment, supplies, motorcycles and
bicycles.
(b) Constructing, furnishing and equipping about 19 new
health centers and related housing facilities and upgrading six
health subcenters to health centers.
(c) Constructing, furnishing and equipping a district
hospital and related housing facilities at Mzimba.
2.   Management, Manpower and Support Systems:
(a) Strengthening   health   services' management   at  the
national, regional and district levels through:
(i) reorganizing MOH's structure;
(ii) establishing regional health teams;
(iii) operating annual workshops in hospital management
and administration;
(iv) improving the health-planning capability of MOH as
well as improving such capability at the district
level, and


﻿- 12 -
(v) supporting the accounting sections of MOH, the
regional teams, the three major hospitals and the
21   district   hospitals,   including   providing
computers to MOH and the three major hospitals.
(b) Strengthening of MOH's manpower development capacity
through:
(i) constructing, furnishing and equipping a nursing
school and related facilities at Zomba;
(ii) constructing,    furnishing  and   equipping  three
regional training facilities for health workers;
and
(iii)   supporting MOH's manpower planning and analysis
capability.
(c) Improvement of MOH's support systems through:
(i)  increasing   MOH's   monitoring   and   evaluation
capabilities;
(ii) constructing, furnishing    and  equipping  pharma-
ceutical depots at eight district hospitals,
including provision of vehicles and supplies;
(iii) establishing a quality control laboratory;
(iv) training   pharmacists, pharmacy   technicians and
assistants; and
(v) reviewing and decentralizing the pharmaceutical
system.
3.   Family Health:
(a) Support of the maternal and child health program
through:
(i) providing vehicles and boats for health services'
delivery;
(ii) developing an integrated family health course for
about 200 health workers annually;


﻿- 13 -
(iii)   in-service training for about 900 health workers
in priority diseases;
(iv) preparing and distributing manuals and training
materials for health workers; and
(v) providing   and distributing drugs annually for
about 1,100 maternal and child health centers and
about 640 prenatal clinics.
(b) Expansion   and   reinforcement  of  the  child-spacing
program through:
(i) constructing, furnishing and equipping surgical
contraception units at seven district hospitals;
(ii) constructing, furnishing and equipping an urban
family health unit in Lilongwe, three health
centers in Blantyre and Lilongwe, and upgrading
two existing health centers in Blantyre and
Lilongwe;
(iii)   reviewing    training    plans    for    surgical
contraception and development of a system of
quality control;
(iv) training all health staff involved in the child-
spacing program; and
(v) preparing     and    distributing   manuals    and
informational materials.
(c) Establishment of a nutrition activities' program in
MOH.
4.   Administration
Strengthening MOH's implementation capability by providing
consultants' services, office equipment and supplies, and
preparation of a subsequent project.
Part B:   Multisectoral Family Health Activities:
1.    Introducing and supporting family health topics in MOCS's
functional literacy and women's programs through:


﻿- 14 -
(a) constructing and equipping a training center for the
Northern Region;
(b) training MOCS staff in health topics;
(c) preparing and distributing informational materials;
(d) training women's groups in nutritional subjects; and
(e) constructing and operating fish ponds.
2.      Introduction  and  support of family    health   education
activities in the Malawi Young Pioneers program through:
(a) training instructors;
(b) providing informational materials and equipment; and
(c) constructing fish ponds.
3.    Development and implementation of nationwide information,
education and communication programs dealing with family health
subjects through:
(a) preparing and distributing informational materials; and
(b) training Information Department staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding:
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles and other items
shall be bulked together in bidding packages to the maximum
extent practicable.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Malawi
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 above, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures:
1.   Civil works, which the Association agrees cannot be grouped
due to the small size and nature of works involved, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, or may be carried out by force
account  through   MOWS,  all   in  accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, and informational


﻿- 16 -
materials and supplies may be procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under
contracts  awarded  on  the basis   of  a  comparison  of   price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions:
1.   Review of invitations to bid and proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association, pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines, shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, the
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of each contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with    Section  4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ the consultants, referred to in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the  Association.   Such  consultants   shall  be   selected,   in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association, on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Project Coordination Committee to be established, not
later than October 1, 1987, shall consist of the Principal
Secretary of the Department of Economic Planning and Development,
as Chairman; the Principal Secretaries of MOH, MOWS and MOCS; the
Chief Information Officer; the Secretary for Youth and Malawi
Young Pioneers or his representative, and the respective Project
Coordinators for Parts A and B of the Project's activities.
Meetings of this Committee shall be convened as often as
required,  but   at  least  four   times  a  year. The   Project
Coordination  Committee   shall,  in   particular,  approve  the
quarterly progress reports to be prepared by the respective
Project Coordinators before submitting them to the Association.
Such reports shall measure the progress of Project implementation
against process indicators and annual implementation plans agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association and shall form the
basis for the mid-term review to be carried out not later than
December  31,  1988.    Annual  implementation  plans  shall  be
submitted to the Association for its review four months before
the beginning of the Borrower's fiscal year.
Part A of the Project:
2.    MON shall be responsible for carrying out Part A of the
Project, and shall appoint a full-time Project Coordinator
whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the
Association.
3.    For the purpose of coordinating the activities under this
part of the Project, the Borrower shall establish a Coordinating
Committee within MOH, with the Principal Secretary of MOH as
Chairman, including the Project Coordinator for Part A and
representatives of the various units of MOH involved in Project
activities. This Committee shall meet once each month to review
the implementation of Part A of the Project.
4.   In order to facilitate the carrying out of the construction
program, MOH:
(a) assisted by a clerk-of-works who shall be appointed to
MOH, not later than October 1, 1987, shall work closely
with MOWS in the execution of the civil works program;
and


﻿- 19 -
(b) shall appoint a procurement officer by October 1, 1988.
5.     Within MOH, the Principal Secretary or his designated
representative shall supervise the management and manpower
components, the Controller (Technical Support Services) shall
supervise the support systems components, the Controller (Family
Health Services) shall supervise the child-spacing and nutrition
programs, and the Controller (Community Health Services) shall
supervise the primary health care programs.
6.    In addition to the quarterly reports referred to in para-
graph 1 of this Schedule, MOH shall conduct the following reviews
and surveys during the implementation of Part A of the Project
and submit the results thereof to the Association, for its review
and comments, within three months of their completion:
(a) a mid-term evaluation of the Primary Health Care
Program by December 31, 1988;
(b) annual plan assessments and review workshops;
(c) a study of the impact of revised fee schedules on the
utilization of services and the potential for health insurance by
December 31, 1987;
(d) a baseline health status and utilization survey by
December 31, 1987;
(e) annual impact studies of the various programs;
(f) a special evaluation of the Expanded Program of
Immunization by September 30, 1989; and
(g) a tuberculosis prevalence survey by December 31, 1989.
7.   With respect to Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that the health centers constructed or upgraded under the
Project shall be adequately staffed with at least one medical
assistant and two enrolled nurses.
8.     In order to implement the reorganization of MOH under
Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) submit to the Association, for its review and comments,
a revised organization chart for MOH by September 1, 1987, and
formally adopt such revised organization chart by October 1,
1987;


﻿- 20 -
(b) establish, and make appointments to the positions of
Controller   (Clinical   Services),  Controller   (Family  Health
Services), Controller (Community Health Services), Controller
(Health Technical Support), three regional health officers and
three regional nursing officers by October 1, 1987.
9.     In order to facilitate the implementation of the cost
reduction plan for MOH, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish within MOH, not later than July 31, 1987, a
Committee with the Deputy Secretary of MOH as Chairman and
including representatives of Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital,
Kamuzu Central Hospital and Zomba General Hospital to monitor the
implementation of cost reduction measures;
(b) establish,   not   later  than  October   1,  1987,  the
positions of expenditure control accountant at MOH, three
regional accountants and one accountant at each of the three
major hospitals;
(c) establish, not later than August 31, 1988, a position
of assistant accountant at each of the 21 district hospitals;
(d) implement cost reduction measures at MOH and at Queen
Elizabeth Central Hospital by December 31, 1987;
(e) by March 31, 1988, submit to the Association for its
review and comments, an evaluation of the cost reduction measures
implemented by MOH;
(f) decentralize finance and accounting functions of the
three major hospitals from MOH to Queen Elizabeth Central
Hospital, Kamuzu Central Hospital and Zomba General Hospital,
respectively, by not later than April 30, 1988;
(g) implement cost reduction measures at Kamuzu Central
Hospital and Zomba General Hospital by April 30, 1988; and
(h) implement cost reduction measures at all district
hospitals by December 31, 1988.
10.   In order to carry out the manpower development activities
under Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:


﻿- 21 -
(a) appoint, not later than September 1, 1987, a training
officer to coordinate the in-service training programs in MOH;
and
(b) prepare and submit to the Association, not later than
December 31, 1987, and thereafter, annually, in-service training
programs for the following fiscal year.
11. With respect to Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
appoint six clinical officers and 16 enrolled nurses to the urban
clinics after their completion.
Part B of the Project:
12. For the purposes of coordinating the activities under Part B
of the Project, which will be carried out by various ministries
and agencies of the Borrower, the Borrower shall establish a
Coordinating Committee, with the Chief Development Officer in the
Department of Economic Planning and Development as Chairman, and
including representatives of the various units involved in
Project activities. The Principal Secretary of MOCS shall be
responsible for monitoring the implementation of activities under
Part B of the Project.
13. The Principal Secretary of MOCS shall be responsible for
Part B.1 of the Project. The Health, Information, Education and
Communication Committee, to be established by September 1, 1987,
with the Chief of Health Services as Chairman, and including
representatives of the various agencies involved in providing
health education shall work with MOCS in introducing family
health topics into the programs.
14. The Secretary for Youth and Malawi Young Pioneers shall be
responsible for activities under Part B.2 of the Project, and the
Chief Information Officer shall be responsible for carrying out
Part B.3 of the Project.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the   term  "Authorized  Allocation" means    an  amount
of $900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received satisfactory evidence
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible


﻿- 23 -
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evide,-ze as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the rrovisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the Eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible  Categories   shall  follow  such   procedures  as   the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.


﻿- 24 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
(1) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or
(ii) was not justified     by  the  evidence   furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall promptly, upon notice from      the
Association, deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so ,ligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for. crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


