Document of
The World Bank                FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2631-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
December 6, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 25, 1979)
Currency Unit    =      Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1    =      DA 3.75
DA 1    =      US$0.27
DA 1 million    =      US$266,667
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)      2   =   1,000 meters (m)   -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 Square Kilometer (km ) 2      100 hectares (ha) =  247 acres (a)
1 Cubic Meter (i3)        =   1,000 liters (1)   =   264 US gallons (g)
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APC     _       Assemblee Populaire Communale
DPRH            Direction des Projets et Realisations Hydrauliques
IHB     =       Institut d'Hydrotechnique et de Bonification
SEDAL   =       Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger
SONADE  =       Societe Nationale de Distribution d'Eau Potable



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Amount:              US$5 million equivalent
Terms:               10 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace at 7.95 percent
p.a. The proposed loan could be refinanced under a loan
the Bank would consider in the future for a project to be
defined under the proposed studies.
Project              The proposed project would provide technical assistance
Description:         to the Government for (i) the carrying out of studies to
assess and meet urban, industrial and agricultural water
requirements in Greater Algiers and in the surrounding
regions within one hundred miles from Algiers; (ii) the
design of a new source of water for the Greater Algiers
metropolitan area; and, (iii) the preparation of a master
plan for the distribution of potable water for the Greater
Algiers metropolitan area. The project would require
about 680 man-months of consulting services at an average
man-month cost of $7,500, including international travel
and subsistence, and local costs for consultants' services.
The project would also assist in further strengthening the
technical capabilities of the Ministry of Hydraulics.
The project presents no special risks.
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign     Total
Items                               ---    $ Thousands-------
Consultants' Fees                                 900      3,400     4,300
Administrative and Other Expenses
including Travel                                450        320       770
Surveys, Borings and Analysis                      170        80       250
Subtotal                                        1,520      3,800     5,320
Physical Contingencies                            228        570       798
Price Contingencies                                252       630       882
Total                                           2,000      5,000     7,000
I Thi documont hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:                        ------US$ Million-
Local   Foreign    Total
Bank Loan                                   5.0      5.0
Government                        2.0        -       2.0
Total                             2.0       5.0      7.0
Estimated Loan
Disbursements:    FY                1980        1981         1982        1983
_______------US$ Thousands-------------
Annual             600       1,470        1,480       1,450
Cumulative         600       2,070        3,550       5,000
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: Not applicable



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO £HE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria for the equivalent of
US$5 million, to help finance a Water Supply Engineering Project. The loan
would have a term of 10 years including 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at
7.95 percent per annum. This loan could be refinanced under a loan the Bank
would consider in the future for a project to be defined under the proposed
studies.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economic Situation and Pros-
pects of Algeria" (1816-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 17, 1978. Updating economic missions visited Algeria in May 1978 and
March 1979. The main conclusions of the missions are given in the following
paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending 1980.
These were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by referendum
in June 1976. In brief, these objectives are (i) to expand and organize the
production base, enabling the economy to reach a stage of self-sustained
growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which
implies that the country would rely first on its own resources for develop-
ment, although international economic relations would be expanded and diversi-
fied; and (iii) to improve income distribution, particularly among regions.
These objectives, and the strategy which has evolved towards their implementa-
tion, take into account the country's physical and socio-economic potential;
the country's leadership is deeply committed to them. Political developments
following the illness and death of President Boumediene have not affected
Algeria's prevailing economic policies. A smooth transfer and wider sharing
of power among political institutions have characterized the transition
leading to the election of President Chadli Bendjedid and the appointment
of a new Government in March 1979. The strategy of the new development plan
is expected to be discussed and the Plan approved early in 1980.
1/   Part I of this report is identical to the one included in the President's
Report on a loan to the Societe Nationale de Constructions Metalliques
(Report No. P-2613-AL) for a Technical Assistance Project approved by the
Executive Directors on November 13, 1979.



4.        The rapid establishment of a diversified and highly integrated
industrial base, the education and training of all Algerians for the require-
ments of modern tasks, and austerity in consumption are the main elements
of Algeria's long-term development strategy. The National Charter, introduced
in 1976, places emphasis more particularly, however, on the following aspects
of the strategy. Whereas priority goes to hydrocarbon development as a means
of accumulating financial resources, investments in other industries must
henceforth be tailored more closely to the national capacity to prepare and
implement projects, to the availability of financial resources, and to the
rates of development in non-industrial sectors. The National Charter specif-
ically underscores the importance of agriculture for creating jobs, for
increasing incomes and improving their distribution, and for substituting
agricultural imports. Decentralization is to be implemented in all areas of
economic and social life so as to achieve the country's development objectives
with maximum efficiency, while the principle of central planning of the econ-
omy will be maintained. Workers' participation in the new management struc-
tures, introduced in 1971, is to be progressively expanded. The control of
people's assemblies over economic planning and management, which was already
effective at local government level, has been introduced at the national level
by the new constitution approved in November 1976. The President and the
new Government have reaffirmed their commitment to the basic principles of
Algeria's long-term development objectives and strategy and implementation of
the National Charter. Emphasis has been put, in particular, on the need for
better utilization of existing capacities and increased efficiency in manage-
ment and production, on the importance of agriculture and training, and on
satisfying the basic material and social needs of the population, including
housing and education.
5.        Taking into account the improved financial prospects resulting from
increased hydrocarbon prices at the end of 1973, the objectives of the 1974-77
Plan were: (i) to increase the level of investment in order to speed up the
construction of the country's productive base and economic infrastructure and
the expansion of community and social services; (ii) to restructure the in-
vestment program in favor of non-industrial sectors and less developed regions
outside the coastal plains and Northern valleys, and (iii) to increase the
number of unskilled jobs and improve individual consumption levels and the
distribution of growth benefits. The Plan also called for vigorous imple-
mentation of the measures aimed at decentralizing and improving economic
management introduced by the Government since 1971.
6.        Several strong elements emerged from Algeria's economic performance
during the 1974-77 Plan. The growth of fixed investment averaged 15 percent
per year in real terms and its ratio to GDP at current prices rose to 48
percent of GDP in 1977 from 41 percent in 1973. While hydrocarbon production
was uneven during 1974-77, depending on technical and external market circum-
stances, GDP growth accelerated in the non-hydrocarbon sectors where it aver-
aged 8.5 percent per year. A high rate of national savings, averaging 39
percent of GDY (Gross Domestic Income), was achieved, and national savings
financed 84 percent of total investment. The marginal savings rate was 34
percent, thanks in large part to the sizeable improvement in the terms of
trade in 1974, which was only partly eroded thereafter. Employment creation



-3-
was substantial with more than half a million jobs created in industry and
services. Consumption growth is estimated to have averaged 9-10 percent per
annum, reflecting the increases in income levels, especially for the least
favored groups in rural and urban areas. Finally, Algeria's performance
concerning regional development has been impressive during the Plan (see
para. 12).
7.        Developments were not as positive in several areas.     The implementa-
tion of the Plan generated imbalances between the high level of investment and
Algeria's financial and human resources and in the distribution of investment
between industry and other sectors. This led to pressures on the external and
domestic financial situation, and increased development lags in non-industrial
sectors and other constraints on efficiency in industry. Such constraints
included in particular skilled manpower shortages, limited management capac-
ity, and insufficient intersectoral and intrasectoral coordination. In 1976,
the Government introduced a program aimed at correcting sectoral imbalances
and overcoming efficiency constraints.     Real investment in non-hydrocarbon
industry was reduced while it was increased significantly in other sectors.
This trend was further emphasized in the 1977 budget law and annual plan.
Actual spending in industry in that year, however, exceeded budget appropria-
tions while investment targets in other sectors, except transportation and
housing, were not achieved.
8.        As a result of the high level of investment in industry and despite
an increase in current receipts from hydrocarbon exports of close to 16 per-
cent, the external financial situation deteriorated in 1977, following an
improvement in 1976; the current account deficit widened to $2.3 billion
from $0.9 billion in 1976. Despite large disbursements on external loans,
committed through 1977 mostly from commercial sources, net foreign reserves
decreased by $300 million to two months of 1977 imports. Following a marked
improvement in 1974, resulting from higher oil revenues, the situation of the
Treasury also deteriorated in subsequent years. Despite its large surpluses
on current operations (budgetary savings), which have been the country's main
source of savings during the Plan, the Treasury showed large and growing over-
all deficits because of the considerable appropriations for public enterprise
investments and to cover their operating deficits. For the same reasons,
credit to the economy and money supply increased sharply, especially in 1975
and 1976. The growth of Central Bank advances to the Treasury remained
limited, however, owing to the mobilization by the Treasury of institutional
savings of public agencies and its correspondent's current surpluses.
9.        Decentralization of economic management has been pursued with vigor,
especially in agriculture and industry. All agricultural units of the
Socialist and Agrarian Revolution Sectors are now responsible for their pro-
duction and investment plans, under the supervision of the local authorities
and the agricultural credit bank (BNA). These decentralization measures have
begun to have a beneficial impact on the output and financial results of
these units. In industry, most of the public enterprises are now under the
"socialist management" system, which should have a beneficial effect on
efficiency since it encourages decentralization of financial and technical
management from the enterprise level to the more manageable production unit.



-4 -
Decentralization of the financial system, as well as decentralization in other
sectors in general, requires, however, revision of credit policy and financial
management procedures for which initial measures were taken under the 1976
and 1977 Finance Laws. It also requires increased financial and accounting
discipline in the enterprises, and enough experienced staff to strengthen
the banks, whiL,. will be a difficult and slow process. Decentralization and
strengthening of the distribution (marketing) system, especially for agricul-
tural products, still call for important measures to be fully efficient.
10.       Social development during the Plan continued rapidly, in favor
especially of the most disadvantaged groups. Policy measures which contri-
bute to raising the living standards of those groups have included increases
in the guaranteed minimum wages, tax relief measures, increases in producer
prices for agricultural products and subsidization of basic commodities.
Further large salary increases (35 percent) were decided by the Government
in 1978. The disadvantaged groups have also benefited from the creation
of non-agricultural employment, implementation of the Agrarian Revolution,
multiplication of small- and medium-scale enterprises at the regional and
local levels, construction of public housing and rapid development of free
health care, education, training and other social services. Overall, Govern-
ment current and capital expenditure having a direct impact on social develop-
ment increased to 53 percent of total direct Government expenditure in 1977
from 44 percent in 1973.
11.       Based on the 1977 Census, Algeria's resident population was 17.3
million at the end of 1977, and I million Algerians were living abroad, mainly
in Europe. Between 1966 and 1977 annual population growth was estimated at
3.2 percent, and the urban population increased from 33 percent to 41 percent
of total resident population. Some 58 percent of the population is now under
20 years old. Together with the high rates of urban growth (6 percent), this
factor is causing an extremely rapid growth in the demand for housing, social
services, urban facilities and employment. Despite the priority given to
modern and capital-intensive industries in the development strategy, employ-
ment creation has been impressive during 1974-77. The unemployment rate in
non-agricultural sectors is estimated to have dropped from 17 percent in
1973 to about 10 percent in 1977. Considerable efforts to create employment
will be needed, however, in coming years to cope with existing unemployment
and underemployment and absorb the additional labor force. In agriculture,
despite implementation of the Agrarian Revolution, the underemployment rate
has remained very high at an estimated 60 percent of the work force. This is
due to the seasonal nature and the low productivity of Algerian agriculture.
The labor surplus in rural areas is being steadily reduced by the large
regional development programs and by rural/urban migration. The other problem
facing Algeria is the acute shortage of skilled labor in many sectors. This
shortage is likely to persist for many years despite the considerable training
efforts which are pursued, often at very high cost, and the steady returns of
skilled workers from abroad.
12.       Algeria has been pursuing an active regional development policy
which aims at providing equal opportunity in education, employment and living
standards in all regions and thus limiting internal migration. Regional



-5-
decentralization of administrative, economic and financial responsibilities
is very advanced at the wilaya (province) and commune (municipality) levels
and is a major determinant of the country's regional development. In addi-
tion to the systematic location of heavy industrial investments in the
interior of the country under the national Plan, special programs for the
least favored wilayate, urban development (PMU) and commune development (PCD)
programs have been implemented since 1974 as part of the Four Year Plan to
build the economic and social infrastructure needed by secondary cities and
rural communes. At the end of the 1974-77 Plan, a total amount of DA 11 bil-
lion had been budgeted for projects under the PMU and PCD programs, represent-
ing 40 percent of Government direct investment and 10 percent of the country's
total fixed investment. The establishment of local enterprises (PMI) in con-
struction materials and other small-scale industries and in services has been
successful in creating employment, using local resources, and satisfying local
demand. Implementation of the regional programs suffered initial delays due
to insufficient capacity at the local level for the identification, prepara-
tion and execution of projects but has accelerated since 1976 in most of the
wilayate. The decentralized locations of several large-scale projects bear
little relation to market and factor availabilities and may be expected to
result in high investment and operating costs. The Government is aware of
this, and considers these additional costs as the price to pay for developing
outlying regions.
13.       The Government decided that 1978 and 1979 would be transitional
years devoted to the completion of projects initiated under the 1974-77 Plan;
the introduction of a new multi-annual plan was postponed. Based on prelim-
inary estimates, real GDP growth was about 9 percent in 1978, propelled by
further increases in non-hydrocarbon sector output and an acceleration in
hydrocarbon output growth (8.2 percent). Agricultural production benefitted
from better weather conditions which permitted somewhat larger cereal harvests
than in 1977. Although low capacity utilization continued to plague many
plants, relative improvements in operating levels of existing plants and
start-up of new plants allowed manufacturing growth to increase (about 12
percent). Reflecting large increases in investment, the construction and
public work sector continued to expand rapidly. Total hydrocarbon exports
increased by 8 percent in quantity, thanks to a recovery in refined product
output and large increases in liquified gas output following the start up of
LNG1 in Arzew. They increased, however, by 6.4 percent only in current value,
as Algerian oil prices diminished in the first half of 1978 because of an
unfavorable market situation for light petroleum. The continuing cause for
concern in 1978 was the size of the investment program and the consequences it
had on the country's financial situation and the imbalances between industry
and other sectors. Total public investment increased by 28 percent in current
terms in 1978. Public investment in industry alone increased by about 35
percent. The latter increase was due to a large extent to the investment
requirements of the hydrocarbon development plan; investment spending in
:non-hydrocarbon industry, however, still increased some 15 percent in 1978.
14.       The large import requirements of the 1978 investment program caused
a further widening of the current account deficit to $3.5 billion, although
there was drawdown on stocks of capital goods accumulated in 1977 and strict



-6-
restrictions in other imports. Despite growing debt amortization obligations
($1.1 billion), net reserves were nonetheless estimated at some $400 million
above their 1977 level at the end of 1978. Net reserves were equivalent to
2.2 months of 1978 imports. This was made possible by large drawings made
before the end of the year on the new loans contracted by Algeria in 1978 to
finance its investment program, especially for gas development. The new loan
commitments (about $5 billion) and disbursements ($4.7 billion) that Algeria
made in 1978 in a favorabLe international financial market, would have seemed
excessive based on earlier Bank projections. Recent developments in world oil
supply, however, considerably improved Algeria's export prospects and debt
servicing capacity. On the domestic side, because of the large investment
appropriations from Treasury to public enterprises ($6.3 billion), the overall
Treasury financing needs from the Central Bank more than doubled from $0.9
billion in 1977 to $2.3 billion in 1978. Money supply increased by 28 percent
in 1978, and bank credit to the economy rose by some 25 percent. In addition,
the large salary increases effected during the year have exerted further
pressures on domestic prices. The consumer price index for the Algiers area
increased by 17 percent in 1978.
15.       In view of the oil price increases this year and favorable market
conditions for Algerian light crude, average price of crude oil for 1979 is
projected at about 42 percent above the average price for 1978. This will
bring substantial additional financial resources estimated at $2.5 billion
in 1979. The economic situation should also benefit, following the smooth
political transition, from the increased emphasis put by the Government on
efficiency in management and production. The postponement of introduction of
a new multi-annual plan will allow completing projects and programs undertaken
under the Second Four-Year Plan, consolidating achievements in the productive
sectors, and further progress in eliminating sectoral lags and bottlenecks.
Production in agriculture is expected to be high after two bad years, and
growth in other sectors should accelerate, especially in manufacturing and in
gas liquefaction. The 1979 Government budget and investment plan for public
enterprises provides for a timely slowdown in total capital expenditure
growth. While the emphasis on social sectors, economic infrastructure and
regional development continues in the investment budget, investment appropria-
tions in industry are restrained and mainly concern on-going projects. With
the combination of increased revenue from the hydrocarbon sector, larger
cereal crops, and limitations on industrial investment the resource gap in the
balance of payments should be reduced to about $1.6 billion from $3.2 billion
in 1978. The current account deficit, despite growing interest payments on
external debt, is projected at about $2 billion. External capital require-
ments could thus be reduced in 1979 to an amount compatible with future debt
servicing capacity. Because of a substantial increase in the Government
current operations surplus the overall financing needs of the Treasury should
also be reduced in 1979. The pressures on the domestic financial situation
which developed in 1978 are likely to be eased.
16.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects beyond 1979 will be
reflected in the next Plan, which is being prepared. The Plan is expected
to start in 1980, and to cover the period 1980-84. The investment strategy,
which will be adopted by a special congress of the National Party (FLN) early
in 1980, should be consonant with the country's long-term objectives and



-7-
strategy. It is expected to increase the relative emphasis on social sectors,
especially housing, agriculture and water development, and to foster regional
development. Priority will continue to be given to hydrocarbon development as
a means of accumulating financial resources. In contrast, investment in non-
hydrocarbon industry will probably be moderated and more strictly allocated,
in order to complete ongoing projects, to achieve forward and backward link-
ages with existing industries, and to relieve constraints on better utiliza-
tion of existing capacities. It should, in addition, be adjusted more closely
to the rates of development in non-industrial sectors and to the availability
of financial and human resources. The next Plan will probably also give
special attention to measures and programs aimed at improving economic and
financial management, eliminating sectoral deficiencies and bottlenecks and,
generally, making the economic system more efficient. The decentralization
policy, which will be pursued, should help greatly to improve the economic
system--provided it is supported by reinforcement of planning and supervision
at the central level, revision of price and credit policies and strengthening
of the financial system. Algeria will still count on external technical
assistance in its efforts to relieve existing constraints on efficiency.
17.       Algeria's prospects depend on four main factors:    the growth of
hydrocarbon exports; the level and composition of the country's investment;
its capacity for future borrowing; and the pace of improvement in the effi-
ciency of the economic system. Based on a careful assessment of these
factors, Bank staff projections show that a relatively rapid economic growth
in all sectors (about 8 percent yearly) can be maintained during 1980-84.
The growth of gross domestic income, which incorporates the effect of terms
of trade changes, should be above 9 percent during that period because of
the expected rise in both the real price and the relative importance of gas.
During 1985-1989, GDP growth would remain high in non-hydrocarbon sectors,
while it would decelerate in the hydrocarbon sector because of the projected
decline in crude oil output. The decline in crude oil output after 1981
would, however, be offset to a large extent by expected increases in con-
densate and natural gas output until the end of the 80s. The resource gap of
the economy is projected to turn into a significant surplus by 1982 when the
large condensate and gas projects, presently underway or planned, begin to
generate increasing export revenues. Commercial loans and credits with short
maturities in relation to the gestation periods of investments will, however,
induce rapidly increasing debt repayment obligations. The country thus faces
borrowing requirements well into the 1980s.
18.       Based on the above projections, during 1980-84 external borrowing
requirements are projected to average about $2.9 billion annually in terms
of commitments.   The projected commitments are large but would be within
Algeria's debt-carrying capacity, which has been considerably strengthened by
the recent oil price increases. In terms of access to external sources of
financing, these amounts appear manageable since the gas contracts into which
Algeria has entered provide for partial financing of gas treatment and lique-
faction plants and suppliers' credits should be available to finance other
industrial investments, most of which will probably be implemented by foreign
contractors. Borrowing from official sources would remain relatively small.
These include the African Development Bank, the World Bank, and the EEC;



-8 -
Algeria signed a financial and trade agreement with the EEC in April 1976.
The experience Algeria has acquired on the international financial markets
should enable it to manage its external borrowing requirements, and possibly
also to improve the conditions of future external commercial loans, as has
been the case in 1978.
19.       At the end of 1977, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at $8.2 billion ($13.8 billion including undisbursed),
equivalent to about 42 percent of GDP. Debt service increased from 14 percent
of goods and non-factor services exports in 1975 to 16 percent in 1976, 18
percent in 1977, and an estimated 24 percent in 1978. Based on borrowings and
disbursements up to 1978 and the projected new borrowings, debt service should
remain around 22 percent until 1982. Thereafter it should decline rapidly in
relation to exports when the large condensate and gas projects come on stream.
By 1984, the likely receipts from gas exports alone would exceed projected
total debt service payments. Bank lending, past and projected, represents
only a small fraction of the country's external financing requirements. At
the end of 1978, the portLon of Algeria's total debt outstanding and disbursed
owed to the Bank was estimated at 1.7 percent; this share would rise over the
next years, to some 7 percent by 1984. Algeria's external borrowing needs
will remain large in the next few years, but can be accommodated in view
of the considerably enhanced capacity to carry debt which the country has
acquired as a result of the new relationship between the prices of hydro-
carbons and other commodities in world markets, the long-term prospects for
gas exports, and general economic performance. Algeria is creditworthy for
continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA I/
20.       After an interval of about nine years, lending to Algeria resumed in
FY1973. Since then, eighteen loans have been approved, totalling $908 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of October 31, 1979 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. While the physical execution of
most projects is progressing well, disbursements for some loans have been slow
due largely to administrative delays. This is particularly the case for the
loan to the Algerian Development Bank (BAD), the technical assistance loan for
rural development, the third loan for education and the loan for the port of
Jijel. Slow progress in improving institutional arrangements, an important
objective of the project, has hampered disbursements of the loan to BAD. The
rural development project has suffered from delays in selection of consultants.
Both projects are now advancing satisfactorily and disbursements are expected
to pick up shortly. Delays in awarding the main construction contract are the
cause for slow disbursements under the third education loan. As for the Jijel
Port Project, the Government has informed us that it is considering an in-
crease in capacity of the adjacent steel complex from 800,000 tpy to 2 million
*tpy, which, although entailing a delay in implementation of the port project,
should enhance its economic justification.
1/   Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from the one included
in the President's Report on a loan to the Societe Nationale de Construc-
tion Metalliques (Report No. P-2613-AL) for a Technical Assistance
Project approved by the Executive Directors on November 13, 1979.



- 9 -
21.       The provision of technical assistance and institution-building
support is a major objective of the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the
Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the Government
in improving economic and sector management, project preparation, implementa-
tion and financial control. Economic efficiency and financial management have
been prominent in our economic dialogue with the Government. At its request,
we have been engaged in a study of enterprise financing and the role of the
banking system. Previous projects have included technical assistance to
enhance the financial system's appraisal capability and improve auditing of
national companies. A technical assistance loan for rural development was
made in FY1975. The SN Metal technical-assistance project, which was approved
by the Executive Directors on November 13, 1979, addresses itself to an area
which constitutes one of the most serious problems affecting economic growth
in Algeria: the difficulty in starting up new plants and reaching satisfac-
tory capacity utilization because of the shortage of the necessary management
skills and industrial experience. One of the major components of the Algiers
Sewerage Project was the creation of a water supply and sewerage authority for
Greater Algiers, SEDAL, and the provision of substantial technical assistance
for its management and operations. Such technical assistance as well as staff
development and training programs for similar agencies to be created are being
envisaged for inclusion in future Bank operations. Finally, the Bank has
acted as Executing Agency for several UNDP financed technical assistance
projects including a global Agricultural Sector Survey.
22.       The proposed project would identify water resources that can be
accessed to supply Greater Algiers and other urban areas in surrounding
regions within one hundred miles from Algiers, and prepare a long term master
plan for the use of those resources to meet water demand for potable, indus-
trial and agricultural water supply. The studies under this project would
result in the formulation of a construction project which would help alleviate
the present critical water shortage in Greater Algiers.
23.       Bank lending since 1973 has also aimed at relieving developmental
bottlenecks in lagging sectors, with the main emphasis on support in education
and infrastructure. Lending for education (4 projects so far) has accounted
for about 21 percent of Bank commitments in Algeria, and was mainly focused
on meeting the urgent demand for technical skills. Loans for transportation
(highways, railways, ports), contributing to the country's economic integra-
tion and regional development objectives, accounted for about 42 percent of
total Bank lending, and two loans for power, for about 10 percent. In indus-
try, three projects (including a loan to the Algerian Development Bank, BAD)
represent about 12 percent, and in agriculture two projects (including the
technical assistance loan for rural development) account for 6 percent of
total Bank lending. Finally, one project in the sewerage subsector accounts
for 9 percent.
*24.       Bank lending activity in Algeria is also extending to areas and
sectors which had previously received limited Bank assistance. Under the
first sewerage project, which was approved last year, studies are being
financed to prepare water supply and sewerage projects in two other major
Algerian cities. Further to the loan'to ONAB (Meat Industry Project) approved



- 10 -
late last fiscal year, an integrated agricultural development project is being
prepared with the assistance of the FAO/CP Cooperative Program. Finally,
project preparation is underway for a first Urban Development Project in
Annaba, one of the cities where Algeria's acute housing shortage is most
pronounced.
25.       The proposed project would be the second to be presented to the
Board in this fiscal year, in which we also expect to submit projects for
irrigation rehabilitation, education and telecommunications. Projects planned
for subsequent years include agriculture and rural development, education,
water supply/sewerage, industry, highways, and urban development. This
lending program, by stressing objectives going beyond the simple transfer of
resources, responds to Algeria's efforts for rapid socio-economic development
and needs for technical assistance.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Background
26.       Algeria, with an estimated resident population of some 17 million,
occupies an area of about 2.3 million km2. However, the bulk of the popula-
tion is located in the north in an area of about 280,000 km2 bordered by the
Mediterranean and the Atlas mountains. Population density in this area can
reach as high as 1,500 inhabitants/km2. About half the population is urban
and about half of these live in the three largest cities of Algiers, Oran
and Constantine. Algiers has experienced a particularly rapid growth with a
doubling of its population over the past ten years to 1.8 million. This rapid
urban growth has outstripped the capacity of the cities to provide, among
others, adequate water and waste disposal services; existing water supply and
sewer systems are obsolete and overloaded. These services are also inadequate
in rural agglomerations.
Water Resources and Infrastructure
27.       Water resources in Algeria are limited and difficult to exploit.
Most northern cities are now supplied with groundwater but the salinity level
of most of the coastal resources has been increasing steadily in the past few
years because of overpumping and the resulting intrusion of sea water into
the aquifers. Although there are 17 major river basins in the country, most
surface water sources are low yielding and of poor quality, and cannot readily
be used for potable and industrial needs. Thus, these waters must often be
treated prior to domestic use. Economically exploitable yields from surface
water could be obtained by regulating the rivers through a series of reservoirs
and dams, but this approach has not, until now, been studied in any detail
because of the availability of groundwater resources. The need for a water
master plan to control the country's surface water reserves is thus apparent.
Overall, the average yield of existing fresh water sources, with full storage
development, is estimated at 7 billion m3/year, sufficient to cover urban,



industrial and agricultural use until the early part of the next century.
After that, demand will have to be met by desalination of sea water and
reclamation of wastewaters.
28.       About 80 percent of Algeria's urban population is provided with
direct water service lines, although only a third of this population can
be considered well-served. Water supply in the cities is very often inter-
mittent. About 70 percent of the urban population is connected to public
sewer networks. Some 80 percent of rural locations are equipped with public
water supply systems, although only about 40 percent of consumers are directly
connected to the networks. Of these, 60 percent have sewer systems but only
25 percent of the rural population is connected to the sewers. Of the popula-
tion in Algiers, about 75 percent is directly connected to the distribution
network; the remainder is served by standpipes and private wells. The Greater
Algiers area is served by a combined sewer system in which both wastewaters
from households and industries as well as stormwater runoff are collected and
evacuated in the same conduits. Most of the water customers are connected to
the existing sewer systems. Because the groundwater aquifer for the Algiers
area is overpumped, the water level is decreasing annually by about 0.4 m. In
addition, current production is estimated to be 40 percent lower than current
demand. As a result, water supply in some densely populated areas of Greater
Algiers is provided only a few hours every day.
Institutional Arrangements
29.       The Ministry of Hydraulics, the main role of which is the develop-
ment and conservation of the country's water resources, is responsible for the
planning and construction of dams, irrigation infrastructure and other major
hydraulic schemes, including potable water production systems. An agency of
this Ministry, the "Societe Nationale de Distribution d'Eau Potable et Indus-
trielle" (SONADE) is responsible for the planning, construction and operation
of water supply production facilities in the interior of the country. Water
distribution and sewage collection in each city are managed by municipal
entities which are controlled by the local administrations.
30.       In Greater Algiers, an autonomous regional agency, the "Societe
des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger" (SEDAL), was set up in 1977 as part of
the Algiers Sewerage Project (see para. 32). SEDAL is responsible for water
production and distribution, and wastewater collection and disposal in the
Wilaya of Algiers. In view of the widespread scarcity of qualified engineers
and managers in Algeria, regional agencies such as SEDAL optimize the use of
scarce manpower and simplify the operation and management of water and sewer-
age services. The Government's objective is to set up similar agencies in
the second and third largest cities, Oran and Constantine.
Sectoral Constraints and Bank Role
31.       The major constraint to rapid expansion and improvement of water
supply and sewerage services is the present shortage of qualified engineers
and administrative staff. To increase the number of technicians in the
sector, the Ministry of Hydraulics recently set up a technical school, the



- 12 -
"Institut d'Hydrotechnique et de Bonification" (IHB). The shortage of quali-
fied engineers and managers is paralleled by a multiplicity of agencies in the
sector (see para. 29). In addition, the local administrations which control
water and sewerage services at the commune level are not committed to effi-
cient and profitable operations and are reluctant to impose effective tariffs.
The operation and maintenance of the systems are also impaired by long delays
in obtaining spare parts due to complicated administrative procedures and the
monopoly given to governmental agencies to supply specific lines of products.
Some of the sector's institutional aspects have been addressed in the Algiers
Sewerage Project. We expect to continue addressing the institutional arrange-
ments in the context of future Bank operations in the sector.
32.       The Government has chosen as a sectoral priority the improvement
and development of water/sewage systems in the largest cities where facili-
ties are now obsolete. This is particularly the case for Algiers where the
water supply and sewerage systems were built to serve a population of 500,000
compared to its current population of 1.8 million. The Algiers Sewerage
Project (Loan 1545-AL, July 1978) focused on that city's most urgent sectoral
needs and included technical assistance to SEDAL in project implementation and
for a study of appropriate management structures and financial policies. The
recommendations of this study are expected to be applied to SEDAL as well
as to other water supply and sewerage authorities modelled on SEDAL. That
project also included studies of new water sources and water supply systems
for Oran and Constantine, which are expected to form the basis for projects
in those cities.   Under SEDAL's management, water rates in Algiers have been
raised and the operation of water supply services has greatly improved.
33.       Through the proposed project, the Bank would help relieve one of the
sector's major constraints by providing technical assistance to aid the
Ministry of Hydraulics in identifying and justifying a coherent program of
works needed to ensure an adequate potable, industrial and agricultural water
supply in and around the Greater Algiers area. These studies could serve as
the basis for a future Bank financed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed loan of US$5.0 million would be the Bank's second
operation in the sector. The project was proposed to the Bank in April 1979
and appraised in July 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in November
1979. The Algerian delegation was headed by Mr. Lamoudi, Assistant Director,
Ministry of Finance. A Loan and Project Summary is provided in the beginning
of this report; a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is provided as Annex III.
The project area and components are shown on the maps attached to this report.
There is no separate appraisal report for this project.
Project Objectives
35.       Water in Greater Algiers is currently supplied by an aquifer close
to the city, the capacity of which is inadequate for current demand (see para.
27). Surface sources some 50 km from the city must therefore be exploited,



- 13 -
at a much higher cost than current sources. The studies under the proposed
project are aimed at identifying water resources that can be used to supply
Greater Algiers and other urban areas in surrounding regions within one
hundred miles from Algiers and at preparing a long term master plan for the
use of these resources to meet water demand for potable, industrial and
agricultural water supply. Various studies of potential sources for the
supply of Greater Algiers have been already carried out by the Ministry of
Hydraulics with the assistance of consulting engineering firms. These studies
have identified the Keddara River as the least cost solution to meet increas-
ing water demand in Greater Algiers. However, this source would only be able
to satisfy the demand up to about 1990. The existing studies differ on which
river system should be developed next to meet demand after that time. Under
the proposed project, the existing studies will be reviewed and other sources
that should be exploited to cover the demand up to the year 2010 will be
identified. The detailed design of the Keddara System as well as the formula-
tion of an immediate program for improving water supply services in Greater
Algiers will be carried out.
Project Description
36.        The proposed project would provide technical assistance to the
Government for (i) the carrying out of studies to assess and meet urban,
industrial and agricultural water requirements in Greater Algiers and in
surrounding regions within one hundred miles from Algiers (the Project Area);
(ii) the design of a new source of water for the Greater Algiers metropolitan
area; and, (iii) the preparation of a master plan for the distribution of
potable water for the Greater Algiers metropolitan area.     The proposed project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   (1) Evaluation of water demands for urban supply and irrigation
requirements in the Project Area up to the year 2000; (2) survey and appraisal
of water resources capable of meeting projected urban and agricultural demands
in the Project Area; (3) review of the existing feasibility studies and initia-
tion of new studies relating to sites not yet evaluated in order to identify
potential water resources to meet water demands beyond the year 1990; and (4)
elaboration of a master plan for the collection and use of water resources in
the Project Area, including a phased program of works, starting with the execu-
tion of the Keddara system, to meet the potable, industrial and irrigation
water requirements of the Project Area up to the year 2010.
Part B: Preparation of detailed designs and construction plans, including
preparation of tender documents, for the construction of the following elements
for a water supply system from the Keddara River: (1) a diversion dam,
pumping station and conveying facilities to transfer part of the flow of Oued
Isser into the Keddara reservoir; (2) an intake from the Keddara reservoir and
raw water conveying facilities; (3) a treatment plant, reservoirs and connec-
'tion pipelines to the water distribution systems of Algiers; and (4) a water
supply system to other cities and towns located in the Project Area.
Part C: Formulation of an immediate program for improving potable water
supply services in the Greater Algiers metropolitan area, including without
limitation: (1) survey and evaluation of the existing potable water system;



- 14 -
(2) formulation of a master plan for the distribution of potable water up to
the year 2000; (3) establishment of a construction program to expand and
improve the water distribution network so as to progressively meet potable
water requirements up to the year 2000; and (4) development of a mathemati-
cal model of the potable water distribution network in order to study and
to ensure optimum management of said network.
37.       The Keddara scheme would involve the construction of a dam on the
Oued Bou Douaou about 100 m downstream from the confluence of the Oueds
Keddara and El Haad, to create an impounding reservoir of about 100 million
m3. Part of the flow (100 million m3 to 400 million m3/year) of a nearby
river, the Oued Isser, and excess runoff into the existing Hamiz Dam, would be
conveyed to the Keddara reservoir. A transmission pipeline would canalize raw
waters from this reservoir to a treatment plant from which connecting pipe-
lines would convey treated waters to various parts of the distribution net-
work. It is estimated that the Keddara system would produce on average 150
million m3/year which would more than double the present water supply capacity
available to Greater Algiers and would ensure demand until about 1990.
Project Execution
38.       Under Algerian legislation, the Ministry of Hydraulics is respon-
sible for the planning, design and construction of dams and other major water
production infrastructures. The Ministry of Hydraulics would be responsible
for the execution of the project which would be carried out by a consortium of
engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(a)). The Ministry of Hydraulics has the staff needed to supervise the
execution of the project but needs the Bank's technical assistance in the
preparation of the terms of reference of the studies and the subsequent review
and evaluation of technically feasible alternatives. The terms of reference
for the studies were prepared by Bank staff in cooperation with the Ministry
of Hydraulics. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the terms
of reference for the proposed studies were acceptable to the Government and
that any modification to the terms of reference would be submitted to the Bank
for approval (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). The Ministry of Hydraulics
would also submit the consultants' interim and draft final reports for Bank
review and comments which would be taken into account in finalizing the
reports (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(d) and (e)). Consultant's proposals are
expected by the end of 1979 and contract award in the first quarter of 1980.
It is estimated that by November 1980 the design of the Keddara system
would be advanced enough to allow the Bank appraisal of the construction of
this system; all the studies are expected to be completed within three and a
half years following the start of project execution (June 30, 1983).
Project Costs and Financing
39.       The estimated total cost of the project is $7 million with a foreign
exchange component of $5 million, or about 71 percent of the total costs. A
detailed cost table appears in the Loan and Project Summary. Consultants'
fees are estimated at $4.3 million, administrative and other expenses includ-
ing travel at $770,000 and expenses for surveys, borings and analysis at



- 15 -
$250,000. Since the project area is very large and as different types of
studies are involved, the base costs have been increased by 15 percent for
physical contingencies. The unit prices and base salaries are assumed to
increase annually by 7 percent during the execution of the studies; these
price contingencies would represent about 14 percent of the base costs plus
physical contingencies. Consultants' fees are estimated on the basis of 680
man-months of consulting services required for the studies at an average man-
month cost of $7,500, including international travel, subsistence, and consul-
tants' local costs, but excluding physical and price contingencies. These
fees were based on actual costs for consultants currently working in Algeria
for similar projects.
40.       The proposed Bank loan of $5 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project. The balance of $2 million, representing the
local cost of the project, would be provided by the Government. No UNDP funds
are available for this project. The loan would be made to the Government and
would have a term of 10 years including 3-1/2 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 7.95 per annum.
Disbursements
41.       The loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures for the proposed project. The estimated schedule of disbursements is
given in the Loan and Project Summary. The closing date of the loan would be
December 31, 1983.
Project Justification and Risks
42.       The Bank's support for the project would enable the Government to
take the first steps necessary to address the critical water shortage in
Greater Algiers. The proposed studies would also help the Government to
establish an appropriate long term development program for the water resources
in Greater Algiers and in the regions within a thirty mile radius from Algiers,
aiming at increasing the portion of irrigated land in the rich cultivable
plain of Mitidja and the country's agricultural production. The Ministry of
Hydraulics needs the Bank's technical assistance in the preparation of terms
of reference for these studies and in the review and evaluation of feasible
technical alternatives.
43.       While the Ministry of Hydraulics has the staff needed to supervise
the execution of the proposed studies, the project would further assist in
strengthening its technical capability by association with the consultants.
It is expected that the proposed studies would result in the formulation of a
construction project which would represent the least cost solution to meet the
increasing water demand of the Greater Algiers area and which could be con-
sidered for Bank financing following appraisal late in 1980. Such a project
would have an important element that would benefit the urban poor as well as
components for water supply and sewerage studies in intermediate and small
cities, within the context of the national urban modernization plan.



- 16 -
44.       There have been delays in some Bank projects in Algeria in the award
of consultant contracts. The risk of such a delay under the proposed project
is minimized by the recent performance of that Ministry in this respect and
because of that Ministry's commitment to the rapid implementation of the
Keddara water scheme for greater Algiers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
45.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article 3, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
46.       The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for engineering
loans. Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are described
in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III.
47.        1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
48.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 6, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 17 -                                             ANNE 1
page 1 of 6
,kiL&- Nast. DMZAUt     DAUA UE?
A RPuUCZ 0201W5 (ADJUSTZD AyjL4CtS
LASD AIJ;A (IOUSSf  S.   .)AUtU                                            - ?¢S   SCItS T5I^At
1:70"                                      No     ~      ~~~~~~~~ 15  1IUTMATE)-
TOTAL           US17                                                      I        SAMS     NtX  NSC=AR
AICULTURAL      '55.6                                MSrT ucr         ZOAJSIC      DIcoaa     U4CO0
1960  lb    1970 /b U8TD6AT! /b    U21O10  /c   GROUP /4    CU10U L
GN? 7U CAPITA (USS)                 470.0       640.0    1260.0          1532.S     1097.7      1942.6
18 1CONSU w Pno CAPtTA
(2P LO& MS 01 OOAL IQUIVALIMI)    252.0       342.0     729.0           838.1     730.7      1646.7
7POPLATION A8D *ITSAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MVITE>AL (AuILLIOS)    10.3        13.8      17.2
01.8   POPULA.ON (t50NT 0 TOTAL) 30.4         34.0      40.0            49.0       49.0       51.2
POPLATIOW P3ORMCTIOKS
POPUATION IN TA    2000 (MILLIONS)                     34.0
STAIONA     POPULATION (IL=LIOS)                       94.0
TU    STATIOAAT POLATON IS RUCHED                    2100
UPOPAION OSm
n sq. IQ.                         4.3         5.8       7.2            19.9      *4.6        28.2
FM sQ. 4. AGR.ICULTURAL LAUM      23.o       30.0      38.0           9.0       140.7       100.5
POUsLATION A0! STCTUU (P1RCV3)
0-14 IRS.                        44.0        47.5      48.0            45.6      41.3        35.4
15-64 ns.                         52.0        48.8      48.0           51.4       55.3        56.3
65 YTI. AIM ABOYR                  4.0         3.7       4.0             2.8       3.5         3.1
POPULATION C3OMl AT! (PS&CEN)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.9       3.2             3.0       2.4         1.7
tUAN                             *7.2L        6.1.      6.8             5.2       4.5         3.0
CRUDE 85TH r  Tun  (PEE TROUSAD)   51.0        49.0      46.0            43.7      31.1        27.5
CUI   DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0        16.0      14.0            13.J       9.2         9.1
OSmS U tmOOUCTION RAT                ..         3.5       3.6            3.2        2.2         1.8
FAKILT PLANNtNC
ACCEPTOS   ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         ..        ..
0ESC  (PERCENT Or MALIED WIN)       ..         ..        ..
FOOD Alt; NDTKITION
IWDEX Of FOOD PROOUCrION
P   CAPITA (1969-71-100)        149.7       104.0      81.0           90.8      104.4       102.t
in CAPITA SUP;LY OF
CALORItZS (cPncrt 6o
RUQU7IUSS)                     71.0        78.0      89.0            99.0      105.0      120.8
POTEIIS (GRAMS PU DAOt)          47.0        45.0      57.2            63.6      64.4        80.9
oF WHICI AIMUAL AND PULSE       14.0q/      9.0      13.7            16.0       23.5       31.3
=LD (AtES 1-4) 80&TA        UAT!   30.0        21.0      16.0            15.9       8.6         5.1
IZALTH
LIZ IWECTANCY AT SIrTE (TEARS)     47.0        53.0      56.0            53.8      60.2        65.6
lFAMT 4O1TALITT tA!T (PER
T1OUSAND)                            *-       142.0        ..              *-      46.7        45.5
ACCtSS TO SAE WATER (PERCENT Of
POPULATiON)
TOMAL                              ..          ..      56.0            56.4      60.8        69.4
ll.4N                              ..          ..      80.0           83.4       75.7        85.1
suAL40.0                                                               34.3      40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO 50CRETA DISPOSAL (PUCECT
Of POPULATION)
tOTAL                              *-         9.0      43.o            59.1      46.0        70.1
15.0      70.0            78.2      46.0        as.3
RURAL                              ..         6.0      25.0            26.4      22.5        33.2
POPLAT.IoN PtIE  MSICPAN         7930.0LI    7860.0    5590.0          3677.0    2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PE  NURSNLG nRSON          .      2730.0    1560.0          1730.6    1195.4       765.0
POPLATION PER HOSPITAL 9I
TOTAL                           280.0/h     340.0     370.0           577.0     453.4       197.6
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..             ..      253.1       260.2
WEAL                               ..          ..        ..             ..     2732.4      1055.0
ADMSSIONS PER 80SPITAL BED           ..        14.3      18.4            21.8      22.1        17.3
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZ OF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..            5.8        5.3         4.7
URSAf                              ..          ..        ..         .   5.5       5.2         4.4
RUJtAL                             ..          ..        ..            6.0        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NIMIER OF PESONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             ..        1.9         1.1
URBAN                              ..         2.8/f      ..             ..        1.6         1.2
RURAL                              ..          .         ..             ..        2.5         1.2
ACCES TO CToeTRICiT   (PCZNT
of DIEILLINGS)
TOTAL                               .        34.0/f      ..           45.1       50.0        66.0
URBAf                              ..          ..        ..           67.9       71.7        85.1
RURAL                              *-        12.0/f      *-             *-       17.3



-18 -                                           ANNEX 1
page 2 of 6
ALOZE A- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ALGERIA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyIRAGES
- 'I0ST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SXitE    NEXT iIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME      LNCOtsE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRI.MARY:    TOTAL                46.0       75.0      89.0            85.0      102.5       101.7
.MALE                55.0        92.0     105.0            103.7     08.6       110.0
FEMALE               37.0        57.0      72.0           66.0       97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                8.0        11.0      19.0            27.6       33.5        51.2
MALE                  9.0        15.0      2.5.0          39.2       38.4        56.4
FEMALE                6.0         6.0      13.0.          20.8       30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 29.0        20.0       2.5/1           4.3       11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          38.0        40.0      41.0            32.6       35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                         18.0       21.0      26.0            23.4       22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       10.0       26.0      35.0            41.4       64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                        17.0       11.0      17.9            16.7       13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        54.0         ..     198.0           147.9      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        5.0         8.0      30.0            36.0       38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPR ("DAILY GENERAL
IT£TREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 28.0       15.0      17.0            17.9       40.0        78.5
CINEtSA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0       6.0       2.7             2.9        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     2700.0     3019.0    3820.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   3.2        4.1       5.0             8.6       25.0        24.5
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             66.8        50.0     35.0            43.0       43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                12.1        14.6     18.0            23.7       21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               26.7        22.7     22.3            26.7       33.5        33.8
MALE                                51.3       44.4      43.4            46.4       48.0        51.3
FEMALE                               1.7         1.8      1.9             5.1       16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.8        2.6       2.4             1.8        1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         ..        ..            21.4       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         ..        ..            48.6       52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..            5.3        3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         ..        ..            15.0       12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..        *-           201.3      270.0
RURAL                               ..         ..        *-           134.2      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..        *-           288.6      282.5       550.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        *-           170.0      248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POV'ERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..        *             22.9       20.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        *-            31.2       35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geomecric means, excluding che extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated courcry in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and ts not uniform.
/b    Unless ocherwise noted, daca for 1960 refer to any year becween 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimace, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
!tiddle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1966;  L/  1954-60;   /h  1962;   /i  1963;
/1  Certain fields of study previously classified under other second level educacion of a vocacional
or technical nacure are nov. reported under general education; therefore data not comparable wih
those of earlier years.
Most Recent Estizate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



!I
44                                          I 1E
9                                              v t -
I V
i11111i I-As"                                  t j
jiM   5              S I             S I        i
q'i                                          A
9 v
um 11
r t
PIN
I I  I        i'll                       IL
1,4                               ! I                       0 !  I  i  I '      "
I
H
Jr         ilia                     v   .
slof
1         3    t-
!-" it, k
C4
1 S I t'.
IN,
I W   11
Z i
NMI
2                                           all HH-1          a V      i
Sili
jj
O I



. 20 -                                                       ANNEXIl
Page 4 of a
ALGERIA                                              ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual         Prelim.         Projected ./              Growth Rates              1977
1973      1975     1977     1978       1979    1984     1989       1974   1978  1980 1985    Share of GDP
1977   1979   1984 1989
A. uAITIOJNAL Al, UTS
A. A ml       9 5 4 constent pricee)
1.   Gross domestic product             50,435    54,305    62,665   68,169    74,577   109,750  149,108    5.5    9.1    8.0   6.3      100.0
2.   Gains from terms of trade          -10,766   -3,399    -2,910   -5,348      -149     5,636   11,090      .     .      .     .       -4.7
3.   Gross domestic income (1+2)         39,669   50,906    59,755   62,821    74,428   115,386  160,198    10.6  11.6    9.2   6.8      95.3
4.   Imports                             14,500   22,870    25,800   26,956    29,544    38,459   49,527    15.5   7.0    5.4   5.2       41.4
5.   Exports - volume                    21,390   20,226    22,121   23,686    25,655    37,190   37,523    0.9    7.7    7.7   0.2      35.5
6.   Exports - TT adjusted               10,624    16,827   19,211   18,337    25,507   42,826    48,613   16.0   15.2   10.9   2.6      3D.9
7.   Reacurce gap - TT adjusted (4-6)     3,876    6,043     6,589    8,619     4,037    4,367       914      .     .      .     .        10.6
8.   Total consumption                   25,810   32,466    37,610   40,117    43,484   66,025   103,061    9.9    7.5    8.7   9J3      60.4
Public onsumption              5,720     6,770    7,760    8,476      9,312  15,349    24,013     7.9    9.5  10.5   9.4       12.5
Privata consumption           20,090    25,696   29,850   31,641     34,172  50,676    79,048    10.4    7.0   8.2   9.3       47.9
9.   Total investment                    17,735   24,483    28,734   31,323    34,980   44,994    58,051    12.4  10.3    5.2   5.2      45.5
Fixed investment              15,770    21,153   27,564   31,500     33,600  43,600    57,100    15.0   10.4   5.3   5.6       44.3
10. National savings                     14,574   18,690    21,610   21,815    29,610   48,005    56,616    9.8   17.1   10.1   3.4      34.1
11. Domestic savings                     13,859   18,446    22,145   22,704    30,943   49,361    57,137   11.9   18.2    9.8   3.0      34.9
12. GDP at curr. prices (USS millions)   8,723    14,370    19,737   24,341    32,730   76,276   140,555   22.5   29.0   18.4  13.0
13. Fixed invest. at curr. pr. (US$ N)   3,582     6,219     9,486   12,469    15,115   29,735    51,135   27.0   26.0   14.5  11.5
14. Fixed invastment/GOP (currant)        41.1      43.3      48.1     51.2      46.2     39.0      36.4
8. SECTOR OUTPUT
(Distribution in percenteges; 1974 constant prices)
1.   Agriculture                            7.2      9.3       6.4      6.0       5.7       4.6      4.0    2.7    4.0    3.6   3.5
2.   Hydrocarbons                          40.5     34.3      33.2     32.3      32.0      30.6     19.9    0.3    8.3    7.2  -2.4
3.   Other Industry                        20.8     25.2      28.9     29.0      29.2      30.3     34.3   13.9   12.0    8.9   9.0
4.   Services                              31.5     31.2      32.1     32.7      33.1      34.5     41.7    5.4   12.0    9.3  10.5
5.   Non-hydrocarbon output                59.5     65.7      66.8     67.7      68.0      69.4     80.1    8.5   11.4    8.6   9.4
C.   PRICES  (1974=100 in US dollars)
1.   Export prica index (incl. NFS)        39.6    102.0     121.0    119.9      169.8    286.9    415.3    32.5 18.5    11.1   7.7
2.   Import price index (incl. NFS)        79.7    122.5     139.4    154.9      170.8    249.2    320.6    15.0  10.7    7.9   5.2
3.   Terms of trade Index                  49.7     83.3      86.8     77.4      99.4     115.1    129.5     15.2  7.0    3.0   2.4
4.   GOP deflator (in diners)              72.4    110.7     130.6    141.6      170.1    269.4    365.4     15.8  14.1   9.6   6.3
Hydrocarbon value added deflator    35.3      94.2    114.3    112.7      163.1    282.1    415.7     34.5  19.5  11.6   8.1
5.   Average exchange rate                  3.959    3.949     4.147    3.966     3.876     -
0.   SELECTED INDICATORS
(ComputEd at 1974 constant prices)    1974-77  1978-79   1988-84   1985-89
1.   ICORj/                                  4.0       4.0       4.7      5.4
1.1   ICOR non-hydrocarbon economy       5.3      4.4       5.7      5.2
2.   rotal import elasticity                  2.82     0.77      0.67     0.82
2.1   Non-capital import elasticity      1.33     0.76      0.70     0.85
3.   Average national savings rate/GDY       38.5     37.5      42.3     38.0
4.   Marginal national savings rate/COY      33.7     54.5      44.9     19.2
5.   Imports/COY                            41.2      41.2      35.1     31.6
6.   ]nvestment/GDY                          45.9     48.3      41.7     37.0
7.   Resource gap/GDY                         6.7      9.2      -2.1    -1.5
E.   PUBLIC FINANCE  (Central Government)                                Prelim.   ProviB.
(as S of GDP at current prices)
1973      1975      1977    1978       1979
1.   Current reverue                         31.9     44.5      43.1     40.0      38.6
1.1 hydrocarbon revenue                 11.9     23.7      22.0     18.0       18.9
2.   Current expenditure                     18.6     22.6      18.7     18.2       16.3
3.   Government savings                      13.3     21.9      24.4     21.8      22.4
4.   Capital expenditure                     10.8     10.0      13.0     13.0      12.8
5.   Loans and advances (net)                12.1     21.8      24.0     24.7      23.2
6.   Overall treaeury balance                 3.7     -7.1      -6.2     -9.3      -6.5
F.   LABOR FORCE (in thousands)
1966      1973     1977 2/
1.   Agricultural, total                     1,270    1,480     1,330
- permanently employed                  (450)     (520)    (570)
- seasonally employed                   (820)     (960)    (760)
- percentage of underemployed             65       65        57
2.   Non-agricultural, total                 1,180    1,700     2,490
- active                                (860)    (1,407)  (2,240)
- unemployed                            (320)     (293)    (250)
- percentage of unemployed                27        17       10
I/   Staff estimates.                                                                . not applicable                           EtENA CPIIB
/    Computed to GOY with one year lag between investment and output.               - nil or less than half of unit shown       October   1979.
3/   Based on the 1977 Population Cenaus, preliminary.                              .. not projected



- 21 -
ALGERIA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Millions of US dollars: current prices)                                         ANNEX I
P-ig85or 
Actual                         Prelim                     Projected 1/
1969     1973     1974     1975     1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1982       1984      1989
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1. Etporta (including NFS)               1,010    2,016    4,935    4,869    5,569    6,331     6,793     10,419   13,791    20,218     25,525    37,275
2. Imports (including NFS)               1,225    2,712    4,477    6,598    6,432    8,475      9,986    12,068   14,625    18,572     22,922    37,976
3. Resource Balance                       -215     -696      458   -1,729     -863   -2,144     -3,193    -1,649     -834     1,645      2,603      -701
4. Net factor service income               -62      112       87       38     -107     -206       -391      -576     -745      -970       -849      -446
1. Interest payments                    -11      -83     -218     -235     -381     -454       -570     -837    -1,041    -1,334     -1,213      -821
2. Interest receipts                     25       20      148       72       83       86         53        84       116      220        292       553
3. Direct Investment incme             -241        -        -        1        2        1        -15       -19      -22       -32        -46       -96
4. Workers' remittancea                  166     226      202      265      254      246        277       305       332       356       356       356
5. Other factor services (net)           -1      -51      -45      -65      -65      -85       -136      -109      -130     -180       -238      -438
5. Current transfers (net)                  48       89       43       32       41       28         40        50       50        50         50        50
6. Ban1-ce on current account             -229     -495      588   -1,659     -929   -2,322     -3,544    -2,175    -1,529      725      1,804    -1,097
7. Private direct investment                41       51      360       97      179      173        136       150       150      160        180       200
8. Official capital grants                  23      -39     -427        -        -        -          -         6        6         8          8        10
Public M&LT loans
9. Diabursmnentn                            87    1,597      631    1,705    2,157    2,670      4,705     3,808     4,015     2,430     2,037     4,439
10. Amortization                            -54     -234     -467     -433     -517     -713     -1,070    -1,389   -2,042    -2,945     -3,072    -3,284
11. Net disbursnments                        33    1,363      164    2,262    1,640    1,957      3,635     2,419     1,973     -515     -1,035     1,155
16. Short-term capital                        -        -        -        -        -        -          -         -
17. Capital transactions n.e.i.             ill     -277     -525       72     -262     -124       -614        -
18. Changes is raenrven (- = ineresses)      21     -603     -160      218     -628      316       -387     -400      -600      -378       -956      -268
19. Net foreign exchangs reserves           476    1,096    1,315    1,066    1,608    1,413      1,800     2,200    2,800     3,882      5,354     7,937
B. GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
1. Official grants                          23        3        -        -        -        -          -
2. Total public MSILT loans                  ..   2,305     1,453    4,125   2,642    2,543      4,262
2.1  180R                                 -       25       158       48     151      170        172
2.3  Other multilateral                   ..
2.4  Governments                         ..      375       169      244     244      193
2.5  of which centrally planned           ..     (4)       (27)    (112)     (1)     (10)         -
2.6  Suppliers                            ..     290       666    2,116   1,002      925      2,000
2.7  Financial institutions               ..   1,544       399    1,717   1,245    1,187      2,030
2.8  Bonds                               ..       71        61        -       -       68         60
C. MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant element of total commitments       ..      6.1      16.8     10.5     6.8      8.4        5.9
2. Average interest (percent)                ..     8.9       6.7      7.7     8.2      7.8        8.2
3. Average maturity (years)                        14.1      13.1     10.4     9.8      9.3       10.9
1/ Staff Estimates                                                                    Nil or less then half of unit ahown.
Not svailable.
EMENA CP1IB
October 1979



- 22 -
ALGERIAA                                                                                         X1
pEBT AND CREDITWORTHINUS
Actual                                  Prelim.
1969     1973      1974      1975      1976     1977              1978
A. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of US dollars)
1. Total debt outstanding
(DOD; end of period)                678     2,932    3,304      4,477     5,855   8,165            11,801
2. Including undisbursed              1,210    4,916    6,002      9,591    11,440   13,785           16,977
3. Public debt service                   65      317      685        668       898    1,167             1,640
1. Interest                          11        83      218        235       381      454              570
B. DEBT BURDEN (percentage)
1. Debt service ratio                 6.4       15.7     13.9       13.7      16.1     18.4             24.1
2. Debt service and direct
investment income ratio             ..      15.7     13.9       13.7      16.1     18.4             24.4
3. Debt service/GDP                    1.6       3.6      5.5        4.6       5.4      6.0              6.7
4. Public debt service/
Government revenue                 5.4      11.4     12.2       10.4      13.9     13.7             16.8
5. Total DOD/GDP                      16.1      33.7     26.4       31.1      35.5     42.1             48.5
C. TERMS (percentage)
1. Interest on total DOD/
total DOD 1/                      2.3        5.6      7.4        7.1       8.5      7.8              7.0
2. Total debt service/total
0OD 1/                            13.7      21.3     23.4       20.2      20.1     19.9              20.1
D. DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT (%)
1. Gross disbursements/imports
(including NFS)                    7.1      58.9     14.1       25.8      33.5     31.5              47.1
2. Net transfer/imports
(including NFS)                    1.8      47.2     -1.2       15.7      19.6     15.0              30.7
3. Net transfer/gross
disbursements                      25.3     80.2     -8.6       60.8      58.4     47.6               65.1
E. EXPOSURE (percentage)
1. IBRD disbursements/Total
disbursements                        -       -        0.3        2.2       2.6      2.0                1.5
2. IBRD DOD/Total DOD                   2.7      0.3       0.2       0.8        1.5     1.7                1.7
3. IBRD debt service/Total
debt service                        5.5      1.2      0.5        1.3       0.8      0.8                1.2
F. EXTERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)                             Outstanding. Dec. 31. 1977
(millions of US dollars)                                   Amount         Percent
1. IBRD                                                       138            1.7
2. Other multilateral                                           3             -
3. Goveernments                                             1,279           15.7
4. Suppliers                                                2,439            29.9
5. Financial institutions                                   4,102           50.2
6. Bonds                                                      204            2.5
7. Total public M&LT debt                                   8,165          100.0
8. Total public M&LT debt
including undisbursed                                13,785           168.8
G. DEBT/PROFILE
1. Total debt service 1978-1982/Total DOD end of 1977 (percent): 183
1/ DOD at the end of previous year.        - Nil or less than half of unit shown                      EMENA CPIIB
October 1979



-23 -
ANNEX II
page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of October31, 1979)
Loan or                                                        US$million
Credit                                                  Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year     Borrower              Purpose        Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed and repaid                  80.5
912 AL    1973     The Democratic 3nd     Highways      18.5                .9>
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913 AL    1973     The Democratic and     Education      3.5               1.64
Popular Republic of
Algeria
995 AL    1974     The Democratic and     Ports         70.0              23.39
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996 AL     1974    Railways-SNTF          Railways      49.0               6.85
997 AL    1974     Power-SONELGAZ        Power          38.5               1.37
1158 AL   1975     Banque Alg6rienne     Industrial     40.0             26.56
de Developpement       Credit
1159 AL   1975     The Democratic and    Tech.Asst.      8.0               5.49
Popular Republic of    Rural Dev.
Algeria
1185 AL   1976     Societe Nationale     SNMC           46.0             26.91
des Materiaux de       Expansion
Construct ion
1209 AL   1976     The Democratic and    Education      47.0             42.58
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1293 AL   1976     Power-SONELGAZ        Power          57.5              13.84
1378 AL   1977     The Democratic and    Education      48.5             48.50
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1407 AL   1977     The Democratic and    Highways       41.5              41.12
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1427 AL   1977     The Democratic and    Ports          80.0             80.00
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1545 AL   1978     The Democratic and    Sewerage       82.0              81.75
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1595 AL   1978     The Democratic and    Education      90.0             89.27
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1683 AL   1979     The Democratic and    Highways      126.0             126.00
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1739 AL   1979     Office National des   Meat Indust. 42.0                42.00
Aliments du Betail
(ONAB)
TOTAL                                        968.5 I/         658.26
of which has been repaid               90.29
Total now outstanding                        878.21
Amount sold                     34.81
of which has been repaid 34.81
Total now held by Bank                       878.21
Total undisbursed                                             658.26
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)
1/ In addition, a $20 million for technical assistance to SN Metal was
approved by the Executive Directors on November 13, 1979.



- 24-                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 995-AL Port Project: US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date: (Original) June 30,
1978; (Current) December 31, 1979.
The project is physically completed. Full disbursement, which is
behind schedule due to claims still pending, is expected by December 31, 1979,
the recently extended Closing Date. There has been a delay of about 18
months in provision of LNG facilities and equipment but 2 LNG berths are
operational. Total project cost, based on contracts received, is about $56
million less than the appraisal estimates of May 1974.
Loan 996-AL Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date:  November 11, 1974; Closing Date:    (Original) December 31,
1978; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The physical execution of the project, which supports the railway's
rehabilitation program, is nearing satisfactory completion and procurement has
proceeded on schedule. Several important studies, however, could not be com-
pleted by December 31, 1978 and the Closing Date has been extended to permit
their completion.
Loan 997-AL First Power Project; US$38.5 milion Loan of June 10, 1974; Effec-
tive Date:  December 20, 1974; Closing Date:    (Original) June 30,
1979; (Current) March 31, 1980.
The project comprises high voltage substations, gas turbine plants,
dispatch facilities, and consulting services for management and engineering
services. All physical facilities have been completed with the exception of
the dispatch center, which is over a year behind schedule. SONELGAZ has not
yet submitted to the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial
covenants will be achieved, partly because of the slow down in decision-making
resulting from the formation of the new Government. Appropriate decisions in
this respect are now expected by the end of January, 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Loan 1158-AL Development Finance Company Project: US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Effective Date: January 5. 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Because of delays in setting up the Appraisal Unit in BAD, disburse-
ments amount to $10 million compared with an appraisal estimate of $38.5
million. Following several partial and total cancellations of already
approved projects, $5.5 million remain uncommitted. To permit BAD to replace
in part the cancelled projects with newly submitted ones, the final date
for subproject submission has been extended to December 31, 1979. Performance
remains disappointing as regards institutional arrangements for BAD to partici-
pate as a decision-maker in the investment decision process, the improvement
of which was an important project objective. At the request and with the full
cooperation of the Government, the Bank is currently undertaking a study of
the Algerian financial system, the recommendations of which may contribute to
remedy the present situation.
Loan 1159-AL Technical Assistance (Rural Development) Project; US$8.0 million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The credit subproject has been completed. The extension subproject
is now proceeding satisfactorily following important initial delays. Following
completion of the first phase of studies on the mountain sub-project, the
possibility of reformulating the project concept before proceeding with the
second phase is under discussion with Government. Consultants are expected to
start work on the steppe subproject by January 1980.
Loan 1185-AL SNMC Expansion Project: US$46 million Loan of January 7, 1976;
Effective Date: April 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the cement plant is approximately six months behind
schedule but is now proceeding satisfactorily and completion is scheduled for
March 1980.   Arrangements for technical assistance are being made to com-
pensate for delays in recruiting and training staff for plant operations.
Capital costs are expected to be about 20% higher than anticipated but finan-
cing appears assured. Important measures have been taken to restore SNMC's
financial viability. The SNC technical assistance program is not running
effectively and the Government has been requested to take appropriate action.
Loan 1209-AL Second Education Projlect: US$47 million Loan of March 9, 1976;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of this project is progressing satisfactorily although
disbursements are behind schedule. Following initial delays in preparation of
construction documents for Phase I due to administrative problems, construction
is now expected to start late in December and bidding procedures for Phase II
are underway. Equipment procurement is now proceeding satisfactorily. Imple-
mentation of the technical assistance program is also proceeding satisfactorily,
although about one year behind schedule.



-26 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Loan 1293-AL Second Power Project; US$57.5 million Loan of July 8, 1976;
Effective Date: December 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 30,
1980.
The Project consists of the transmission/substation component of
SONELGAZ's 1976-1980 program comprising about 3,300 km of transmission lines
and 4,000 MVA of substation capacity, and studies of SONELGAZ's organization
and management methods. Overall physical progress is satisfactory. Procure-
ment for substations to be financed from the loan has been approved by the
Bank, but some delays have occurred in construction. SONELGAZ has not yet
submitted to the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial covenants
agreed upon will be achieved, but appropriate decisions in this respect are
now expected by the end of January 1980.
Loan 1378-AL Third Education Prolect: US$48.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5. 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project started well but has fallen over 2 years behind sched-
ule due mainly to changes in personnel at the Ministries of Education and
Labor at the end of 1977 and a prolonged bidding period for civil works for
the technicums. The Government is re-examining the low bid for technicums
construction and is expected to decide shortly either to award the contract to
that bidder or, if necessary, repeat ICB. The Ministry of Labor decided in
March 1979 to proceed with implementation of the two vocational training
centers under ICB (also 2 years behind schedule) and bidding documents for
civil works are expected by end December 1979.
Loan 1407-AL Second Highways Project: US$41.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Implementation has been slow, due mainly to an unsuccessful first
round of bidding for the sole construction component. Evaluation of the
second round of bidding was completed in October 1979 and the $95 million
contract has now been awarded. Works are expected to start in January 1980
and be completed by end 1982, about one year and a half later than scheduled
at appraisal. The Government is also negotiating with consultants provision
of technical assistance to help in construction supervision. Training of
maintenance personnel, both in Algeria and abroad, has started early in 1979.
The loan is now 95 percent committed.
Loan 1427-AL Jijel Port Pro-ject: US$80.0 million, Loan of September 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The project is about two years behind schedule due to delays in bid
evaluation, although this is expected to be completed soon. There have also
been delays in the construction of the steel complex which the port is to
serve. The Government has informed the Bank that the steel complex project
may be expanded to increase its production capacity and is expected to be
completed at the end of 1984 or early in 1985. A final decision on the steel
complex would be taken in the context of the next Five-Year Development Plan.



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Loan 1545-AL First Sewerage Prolect: US$82 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: November 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of the construction of comb'ned sewer inter-
ceptors, the first stage of a sewage treatment plant, and technical assistance
to the Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger (SEDAL), with a view to
creating a sound institutional basis for its operations and establishing new
water tariffs to enable SEDAL to ensure its financial independence. Project
implementation, after some delay partly due to the changes in Government,
is now underway. Engineering consultants for project construction have been
appointed, and the management consultants to SEDAL have submitted a first
draft report.
Loan 1595-AL Fourth Education Project: US$90 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: February 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily for the mechanical
engineering institutes (NIME and NIMET) and the teacher training school for
technicums (ENSEP). The institute for vocational instructor training (IVIT,
Annaba) is delayed because of site problems. Construction on NIME, NIMET and
ENSEP is expected to start in July 1979. Implementation of equipment procure-
ment is now proceeding satisfactorily and the technical assistance program was
started in September 1979.
Loan 1683-AL Third Highway Project: US$126 million, Loan of May 16, 1979;
Effective Date: September 13, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is proceeding on schedule. Contract proposals
for the maintenance program are expected to be received by the Bank in
December 1979. Bids for the first tranche of the pavement strengthening
program are expected in February 1980. Bids for construction of the La Chiffa-
Berrouaghia road section have been received and construction should start on
schedule in early 1980. Training of maintenance personnel is projected to
start in February 1980.
Loan 1739-AL Meat Industry Project: US$42 million, Loan of October 3, 1979;
Effective Date: not yet effective; Closing Date: April 30, 1984.
The loan is expected to be effective by early February 1980. Project
implementation is in its early stages but is proceeding satisfactorily. Tender
documents for meat complexes are under preparation. A five-man team has been
appointed for the fattening component.



- 28 -                     ANNEX III
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken by the Borrower
to prepare project:                           Three months (April 1979 to
July 1979)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                Ministry of Hydraulics
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank:           April 1979
(d)  Bank missions:   (i) preparation              May 1979
(ii) appraisal                 July 1979
(e)  Date of completing negotiations:              November 19, 1979
(f)  Planned terminal date of effectiveness:       March 30, 1980
(g)  Special condition of effectiveness:           None
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions: None
Section III - Special Conditions:
The Government has agreed to submit the findings of the studies to
the Bank for review and to take into account the Bank's comments and sugges-
tions prior to finalizing the recommendations of the studies (para. 38).



20                           D00                           20                            40                            60                           80
Mediterraneon Sea
ALGERIA
ENGINEERING LOAN FOR WATER SUPPLY STUDIES                                                                                          Skikda           nnao
PROJECT LOCATION                           __                                                            e                        0
PROJ EC T AREA                                                   f%                                                           '      -            C...
-~RIVERS
-360°        -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    _1eon staen                                                                                                 S uO-AhrFos
Mostagoinem                              lin    Mda30
Arw           ,gIghil zone                                    \Arrer dl                                   C>            OA,n Beido   (
Mohommadi                                a                           QM Ia
o Batna 
Am|Toucer                 Cor          TA                                                    E H0d O                            Kenchelc      Tebesso _ 
\,<OghniA  e Tem t                        0                                              C/Bou Satda
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Tlemcen                 s                                                            ouo7
0)  A   //  °Soida                      S   /                                          0B,skra                                   z
0 340
u2
<  0   ,  50   190  250  Ths map has beet prepaed by the World Sash- staff e-clusiefy forthscoceoietce  coW
KILOMETERS                     of the rdes f the repo t h i ts attached The denominatisd and the  4.r
*.    s the part nfthe Wrld 6ank and,.t
(any terrtory orany endors -etOr
go                              20                              40                     cetac   oh6±isnae






AlGERIA
ENGINEERING LOAN FOR WATER SUPPLY STUDIES                                            M     f  D   T 5 R R A    N  f
KEDDARA WATER PRODUCTION SYSTEM                                                                      s e A
f                                \   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in  Tayai
/       Ch~~erogas.        L:   R; 
Rouibo
/*Bou Douoou          Thenio                        PROPOSED PROJECT SHOWN IN RED
/ Zeroldo              TRE,T   H        -                                                                     (i i             f     TOWNS
RIVERS
Ko@v<    ° eddoro Domes                 - -      INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
Ko eO t.>           ~~~~~Douera                                                                 0 Ms&h /;  
olec                                                                                                                  o
_H                   )<A°                         /t 9          AMIZ-~~~~~~~~~~~KEDDARAK 
(P<(  X  o   X   tECK/sM'tgR  %   /        LAKHD ARIA  NTAKE AND
\O B                           vufa-ikPUMPING STATION
dS Boufarik                        'is L'Arba                                                        L khdaria
Bougara                                                 -
i =B L IDA                z 
Chiffa K4.                                                                                                                                                 I
0  2  4  6   8  1,0  1~2  1,4  1,6  18  20
90                 gS'                     |                            ToUlat                                                                          KILOMETERS
r Shown on
Map
.. . ) 0                                                                      . A  L  G   E  R   I A
AMEDEA          /                                                                                                       \
\h, r-ap hts been prepared by the WVootd Btek.s ceff -edecolvcOy for the co venience  a/
of rhe readers of the report to  ch,cO ro Is a ttched, the denomnnarl,es usod and the  e O
ho oon daes thown -n th,t map dono et ;mpt  no the part of the World Bao1 end itt  L.
affiliates any Jsdg-et- oo rho legal 510155 of anr terrtory or any erdorseroent Or
a-epl-e  f n.o bsc  `ar es



