RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                   Report No. P-60
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SECOND KENYA TEA
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
May 29, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELORMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AiMD dECO1'a4ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A SECOND KENYA TEA
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and reccmmendation on a pro-
posed credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $2.1
million to the Republic of Kenya.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        A Development Credit Agreement between Kenya and IDA was
signed in August 1964, making available $2.8 million for the Govern-
ment's program for the development of tea production by African small-
holders (Credit 64-KE). This program is being carried out by a statu-
tory body, the Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), and its progress
has been quite satisfactory. In Ilay 1967, the Government of Kenya
applied for a second IDA credit to help finance an extension of this
program.
3.        A Bank mission visited Kenya in September-October 1967 to
appraise the proposed project. This mission also discussed the details
of the project with the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
which had already been associated with IDA in lending for the previous
phase of the development. CDC indicated its willingness to consider
providing about half as much as the amount of IDA financing agreed
upon.
h.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in April 1968.
The borrower was represented by Mr. J.G. Kibe, Chief Finance Officer,
Treasury; Mr. N.S. Kungu, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture;
Mr. F.I.H. Moreithi, Assistant General Manager, KTDA, and M4r. M.L.
Dunlap, Legal Consultant. CDC was represented by Mr. W.J.R. Cox,
Accountant, and Mr. N.L. Hearne, Solicitor.
5.        Negotiations were also held with the Kenya Government
representatives recently on a proposed development credit of $10.7
million for a second highway project. My report and recommendation
on the highway project is being distributed to the Executive Directors
simultaneously with this report. The proposed credit for the KTDA
project and the proposed highway credit would be our seventh and
eight credits to Kenya and would bring the total IDA financing there
to $39.0 million. Kenya has received two Bank loans, guaranteed by
the United Kingdom, for a total amount of $14.0 million. The follow-
ing is a summary of the Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya as of
April 30, 1968:



-2
(Amount US $-millicn)
No.    Year   Borrower        Purpose          Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
256-KE 1960      Kenya   Agriculture and Roads   5 6   -        -
303-KE  1961     Kenya   Land Settlement         4:61/ -        2.3
64-KE  1964     Kenya   Smallholder Tea          -   2.8       1.2
70-KE 1964      Kenya   Highways                 -   4.5       0.7
77-KE  1965     Kenya   Tea Roads                -   3.0       1.6
93-KE  1966     Kenya   Education                -   7.0       5.9
l04-KE  1967     Kenya   Agricultural Roads       -   5.3       4.4
lo5-KE  1967     Kenya   Agricultural Credit      -   3.6       3.6
Total (less cancellations)              10.2
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                             3.3
Total now outstanding                    6.9
Amount sold                       h.3
of which has been repaid        3.2    1.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA           5.8  26.2
Total undisbursed                        2.3  17.4     19.7
1/   Net amount after cancellation.
6.        The 1961 loan for land settlement (303-KE) was revised in
1964 to take account of changes in the Government's plans for settle-
ment and changed marketing prospects for commodities that the project
had been intended to produce. By early 1967, eight sub-projects had
been approved which would complete the area to be settled under the
project. In June 1967, $3.8 million of the original loan of $8.4
million was cancelled and, as the loansrequired by settlers to complete
the approved sub-projects now appear to be below previous estimates,
there will probably be a further cancellation. The lag in disburse-
ments has been caused by a number of technical factors, including
administrative difficulties due to staffing problems. We have recently
agreed with the Government on remedial measures to be taken. However,
as a result of the delays which have already occurred, it will be
necessary to postpone the Closing Date for this loan in order to com-
plete the project.
7.        Disbursements on the 1964 Tea Development Credit (64-KE)
have been slawer than originally estimated, mainly because KTDA's
field expenses have been lower than originally forecast. The rate
of disbursements has recently increased. As indicated below (para-
graph 16), it is proposed to amend Credit 6h-KE in order to coordinate
its disbursemen'ts with those under the proposed credit.



- 3 -
8.        The Closing Date for the 1964 Highways Credit (70-KE) has been
postponed by nine months to September 30, 1968. Progress was retarded
because of difficulties experienced by two contractors; these difficul-
ties have now been overcome and the execution of the project is proceed-
ing satisfactorily. The 1965 Tea Road Credit (77-KE) is somewhat behind
schedule mainly because the largest single contract had to be retendered;
progress, however, is improving. The delay in beginning disbursements on
the 1967 Agricultural Credit project (105-KE) has been caused by a delay
in the Governmentts recruiting an expert who would assist in the prepara-
tion and appraisal of individual loan applications. It has recently been
agreed that the Bankts Agricultural Development Service staff, stationed
in Nairobi, would assist in this function until a suitably qualified
individual is found.
9.        In addition to the above loans and credits, the Bank has made
three loans for common services in East Africa, two for railways and
harbors and one for telecommunications. All three loans are guaranteed
jointly and severally by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, with the United
Kingdom also being a guarantor for the first railway loan. The following
is a summary statement of these loans as of April 30, 1968:
(Amount US$ million)
No.    Year          Borrower             Purpose         Bank  Undisbursed
ll0-EA  1955 East African Common     Railways and Harbors 24.0       -
Services Authority
(EACSA) *
428-EA  1965 East African Common     Railways and Harbors 38.0      13.9
Services Authority
(EACSA)*
483-EA  1967  East African Common    Telecommunications    13.0      9.4
Services Authority
(EACSA) **
Total (less cancellations)                         Th0
of which has been repaid to Bank and others      12.5
Total now outstanding                              62.3
Amount sold                             23.8
of which has been repaid              12.4     11.4
Total now held by Bank                             571.1     -
Total undisbursed                                           23.3
*   The East African Community has succeeded EACSA as Borrower.
**1 The East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has
succeeded EACSA as Borrower.



10.     Two new projects, one for railways and the other for harbors,
are being prepared for submission to the Barik.
11.     Another IDA credit to Kenya, amounting to $3.6 million for
livestock development has been negotiated and will be presented to the
Executive Directors shortly. We have under consideration a project for
the development of Nairobi's water supply system and a secondary/feeder
road project.
12.     IFC has invested in loans and equity participation, amounting
to $3.1 million, in the Kenya Hotel Properties Ltd. for development of
hotels and game park lodges. IFC has also been approached by the Govern-
ment and other interested parties on the development of a pulp and paper
project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
13.     BORROWER:             The Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARY:          Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA)
PURPOSE:              To help finance further expansion of a
smallholder tea development program being
carried out by KTDA.
AMOUNT:               US $2.1 million equivalent in various
currencies.
AMIORTIZATION:        50 years including ten-year grace period,
semi-annual payments beginning June 1,
1978 and ending December 1, 2017.
SERVICE CHARGE:       3/4 of 1%
REIENDING TERMS:      Government will relend the credit proceeds
to KTDA at an interest rate of 6-1/2% and
repayable in four annual installments
beginning June 1977.
PART III - THE PROJECT
14.     An appraisal report entitled "Second Kenya Tea Development
Authority Project, Kenya"' (TO-632a, dated May 29, 1968) is attached.
15.     The proposed project is part of the smallholder development
program of the Kenya Government, carried out by KTDA, a statutory
corporation for which the Association made a credit of $2.8 million in
1964 (64-KE). It consists essentially of planting and bringing to
maturity tea smallholdings and the provision of processing facilities.



The processing part of the project, involving building and extending
factories, is expected to be financed by CDC and commercial sources.
The part of the project to be financed by IDA consists of the planting
of some 35,000 acres of smallholder tea during the five-year period
commencing with the fiscal year 1968/69 and bringing to maturity the
most recent plantings financed under Credit 64-KE. It involves the
supply and distribution by KTDA of planting material, the supervision
of smallholder cultivation, training, and the collection, inspection
and transportation of green leaf to processing factories. For these
services, KTDA would collect cesses from smallholders. As in the case
of Credit 64-KE, the principal responsibilities for the execution of
the project would rest with KTDA, which continues to maintain high
standards of organization and management.
16.     The proposed project involves the use of vegetatively propagated
(VP) planting material, i.e., cuttings from selected mother bushes in
lieu of tea stumps grown fram seeds. The new technique represents a
major improvement in tea cultivation which is more effective and less
costly than growing stumps from seeds, although it requires more field
supervision. The proposed Credit would cover the cost of imported trucks
(to be procured under international competitive bidding) and part of
KTDA's field expenditure, both for bringing to maturity the plantings
financed under Credit 64-KE (the disbursement arrangements for which would
be modified) and for new plantings.
17.     The total cost of investment in the field sector of the project,
estirnated at US $9.1 million, is proposed to be met as follows:
Amount       Percentage
($ million)      of Total
Undisbursed balance of Credit 64-KE       1.0              11
Proposed new IDA Credit                   2.1              23
Proposed new CDC loan                     1.1              11
KTDA receipts from smallholders           2.4              26
Estimated value of smallholders' labor    2.5              29
9.1            100
18.     Thus, the contribution by smallholders would be as much as
55 percent of the cost of the field sector. The foreign exchange com-
ponent of the field sector is smaal, about $1.5 million equivalent,
because it consists mainly of the cost of planting indigenous material
in existing teagrowving areas with necessary supervision. In the cir-
cumstances, I consider it justified that the proposed IDA financing
should exceed the foreign exchange element and cover some local costs.
19.     The rate of return to the economy of the proposed investment
in new plantings under the project is estimated to be between 16 and 25
percent, depending on the economic cost attributed to smallholder labor.



- 6 -
The project would bring about 26,000 African smallholders into the cash
economy and enable them to earn incomes considerably more than anything
else obtained from traditional forms of agriculture in the areas concerned.
The project would also reduce KTDA1s unit operating expenses due to
economies of scale, resulting from its policy of concentrating the plant-
ing of new tea in existing tea areas. Even assuming a declining trend
in tea prices over a long term, the project is expected to increase net
foreign exchange earnings by about $11.0 million per annum by 1981/82.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between IDA and the
Republic of Kenya, the draft Project Agreement between IDA and KTDA and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article II, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
21.       The form of the credit documents follows generally the pattern
of those used in connection with agricultural projects. The following
special provisions should be noted:
(a) withdrawals of the credit are to be made against amounts
expended on the field sector of the project and such
withdrawals, plus withdrawals for the project from
Credit 64-KE and from CDC, are not to exceed KTDA's net
capital requirements for the field sector of its opera-
tions; and
(b)  the Republic of Kenya will agree to provide processing
facilities for tea as and when required and to construct
and maintain the roads necessary to enable KTDA to collect
leaf from growers and to deliver it to the processing
factories.
PART V - THE ECONOMRY
22.       An Economic Report entitled "Prospects for Economic Develop-
ment in Kenya" (Volume II of AF-58b, dated August 31, 1967) was distrib-
uted to the Executive Directors at the beginning of September last year.
At the end of March this year, an Economic Memorandum "Recent Develop-
ments in the East African Community, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda (AF-7h)
was also distributed.
23.       The Economic Memorandum was originally prepared for the first
plenary meeting of the Consultative Group for East Africa, which tock
place in Paris, April 22-26. This is the first time a consultative
group has been formed for three countries and a regional community.
The countries taking part were: Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and United
States. Representatives of the Xfrican Develolinent Bank, the Inter-
national Monietary Fund and the United Nations Development Program were



- 7 -
present. Representatives of other public agencies and private trusts
were present at the informal sector discussions on Agriculture, Education
and Transport, which were held in London, March 18-22. Both the Paris and
London meetings resulted in a better understanding of the development pro-
blems and needs of the recipient countries, and are likely to show results
in improving the coordination of aid to all three East African countries
and the East African Community. There was general agreement that the
Consultative Group for East Africa should be continued, but the forms of
consultations are likely to be modified and varied.
24.       The performance of the economy has been satisfactory and the
public finances are being reasonably well handled. The future prospects
for development in Kenya remain fairly bright, although, as the Economic
MIemorandum points out, recent measures to increase the Africanization of
the private sector of the economy are likely to have some adverse effects
upon development during the transitional period. Nevertheless, the average
growth of GDP at factor cost and at constant prices over the next few years
should be fairly high, even if possibly somewhat less than the projection
in AF-58b of about 5-1/2 percent a year.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to Republic of Kenya in an
amount equivalent to US $2,100,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Kenya in an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
million one hundred thousand United States dollars (US $2,100,000), to
mature on and prior to December 1, 2017, to begr a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent 3/b of 1ho) per annum, and to be upon
such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit
Agreement (Second Kenya Tea Development Authority Project) between the
Republic of Kenya and the Association and Project Agreement (Second Kenya
Tea Development Authority Project) between the Association and the Kenya
Tea Development Authority, which have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
May 29, 1968



