RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-632a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SECOND KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
KENYA
May 29, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1. 00            =     Kenya Shillings 7. 14
K Sh 1.00                 100 cents
=     US$0. 14
K Sh 1 million      =     US$140, 000
UKE                 =     K Sh 17.14
=     US$2.40
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English System
1 acre (ac)               0. 405 hectares
1 pound (lb)       =      0. 454 kilograms
1 foot (ft)        =      12 inches (in)
-    0. 305 metres
I inch (in)        =      2. 54 centimeters



KENYA
SECOND KEINYA TWA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (KTDA) PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMIVIARY . .......................... .........................       - ii
I. INTRODUCTION               ..                                    1
II. BACKGROID                         ..1
III.  THE PROJECT AREA             ..                                 2
IV. THE PROJECT ..                                                   3
A. Project Definition.                                       3
B. Field Development.                                        3
C. Processing .10
D. Cost Estimates .10
E. Proposed Financing .12
F.   Organization and Management .14
V.     PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND SMALLHOLDER BENEFITS                15
A. Yields and Production .15
B. Markets and Prices .16
C. Smallholder Benefits .16
VI.  BEINEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .17
VII.     CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..19
ATINEXEPS
1.  Proposed Planting Program
2.  Field Sunervision Staff
3.  Leaf Collection Service
4. Estimated Investment Cost of the Field Sector
5. KTDA Cash-Flow Projection
6.  Fxisting KTDA Debt Service Obligations
7.  KTDA Balance Sheet
8.  District Yield Ratings
9. Average London Tea Auction Prices
10.  An Assessment of Smallholder Benefits
11.  Economic Return Calculation
MAP
This appraisal report is based on the application submitted by the Kenya
Government and on the findings of a field mission comprising Messrs. Darnell
and Eccles and Miss Qubein, which visited Kenya in September-October 1967.






KENYA
SECOND KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AIJTHORITY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Kenya has applied for an IDA credit to help
finance the expansion of its program for the development of tea production
by African smallholders. Finance for the program to date, which is progres-
sing satisfactorily, has come from an earlier IDA credit for US$ 2.8 million
(Credit 64-KE of August 17, 1964), from the Commonwealth Development Corpo-
ration (CDC), and from the Federal Republic of Germany.
ii.       The project has a field sector and a factory sector.  The field
sector includes the planting of some 35,000 acres of smallholder tea over
the period 1968/69-1972/73 and services to these and pre-project smallholder
plantings of some 26,800 acres. Principal changes over the earlier project
are the use of vegetatively propagated (VP) planting material and the con-
centration of new plantings in existing smallholder tea growing areas.
These changes are expected to lead to increased yields, higher efficiency
and reduced unit costs. The factory sector includes the provision of pro-
cessing facilities for the leaf to be produced from the new plantings under
the project.
iii.      The above definition of the field sector of the project incorpo-
rates the bringing to maturity of the most recent plantings under Credit
64-KE (through 1967/68), even though funds remain in the earlier Credit to
be disbursed for this purDose. This has been done to avoid the difficulty
of attributing specific KTDA expenditures to specific plantings.
iv.       Tea-growing is well established in Kenya, and Kenya teas (including
those processed exclusively from smallholder green leaf) have gained recog-
nition in world markets. By the end of 1967, nearly 75,000 acres were in tea,
of which about two-thirds were in large estates. In 1966 total production was
some 56 million lb of made tea (about 3 percent of world production), of
which some 52 million lb (worth about US$ 25.7 million) were exported, pro-
vidina about 7 percent of Kenya's foreign exchange income.
v.        The development of smallholder tea cultivation will continue to be
ornanized and supervised by the Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), a
statutory authority. KTDA services include the supply and distribution of
plantin7 material- the provision of training facilities; the collection, in-
spection and transportation to the factories of green leaf; and the making of
arrangements for processing facilities. KTDA supervises smallholders' tea
cultivation using staff seconded from the Ministry of Agriculture.
vi.       The factory sector of the project, in which no IDA financial
participation is planned, cannot be precisely described at present pending
the results of a Transport and Factory Location Study which is to be
financed on a grant basis by the United Kingdom Government. The study is
designed to produce recommendations on the most economic scale of factory
production, and on the location of factories. It will also make recommenda-
tions on the most economic method(s) of transportation of green leaf to, and



- ii -
made tea from, the factories. The Government would construct and maintain
an additional 200 miles of tea feeder roads in support of the project. CDC
has agreed in principle to assist in the financing for the additional pro-
cessing facilities.
vii.      To avoid recurrence of the difficulties mentioned in para. iii
above should financing be sought for additional KTDA planting after 1972/73,
the proposed new credit will be restricted to the period of new plantings
only, namely 1968/69-1972/73. The estimated investment cost of the field
sector of the project over this period is K Sh 65.3 million (US$9.1 million),
of which the foreign exchange component is estimated to be about 17 percent.
IDA would contribute the undisbursed balance from Credit 64-KE (estimated
at US$970,000 as of June 30, 1968) plus a new credit of US$2.1 million
(K Sh 14.8 million). CDC would lend E450,000 (K Sh 7.4 million or US$1.1
million). The smallholder contribution would be in the form of cash
amounting to K Sh 17.3 million (US$2.4 million) and by performing on-farm
labor estimated at about K Sh 18.9 million (US$2.6 million). Total IDA
finance for the project amounts to some 34 percent of the total estimated
investment cost, and total external finance (including CDC) to some 45 percent.
viii.     No changes have been made in KTDA's constitution since Credit 64-KE
was signed in August, 1964, and the KTDA Board continues to comprise repre-
sentatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Kenya Tea Board, CDC and the
smallholders. Organization and management of the smallholder tea program by
KTDA during the implementation of Credit 64-KE has been of a high standard,
and highly qualified and competent Kenyans have taken over, or are about to
take over, the senior posts of General Manager and Chief Technical Officer.
ix.       The project would bring an additional 26,000 smallholders into
the cash economy and would reduce KTDA's unit operating expenses. Most of
the tea produced would be exported, and the project's net contribution to
the foreign exchange earnings of Kenya would reach about K Sh 80 million
(US$ll.2 million) per year by full development (1981/82). The investment
in new plantings would yield an average annual net return to the economy
of somewhere in the range of 16-25 percent depending on the economic cost
attributed to smallholder labor, taking into account the costs of the
necessary additional processing facilities and roads.
x.        The project is technically and economically sound and is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$ 2.1 million.



KENYA
SFCOND KFNYA TEA DEVELOPMFNT AUTHORITY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      On August 17, 1964 a Develonment Credit Agreement between Kenya
and IDA was signed makinp available US$ 2.8 million for the Government's
program for the development of tea production by African smallholders
(Credit 64-KE). The Government has now applied for a second IDA credit
to help finance an extension to that program. This appraisal report is
based on the application submitted by the Government and on the findings
of a field mission comprising Messrs. Darnell and Eccles and Miss Qubein
which visited Kenya in September-October 1967.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Tea production is well established in Kenya and ranked second to
coffee in exoort earnings in 1966 at K Sh 184 million (US$25.7 million),
some 7 percent of the Kenya total. By the end of 1967, nearly 75,000 acres
were in tea, of which about two-thirds were in large estates owned and man-
aged by private companies. Annual output of over 56 million lb in 1966, of
which about 52 million lb were exported, accounted for about 3 percent of
world tea production and Kenya tea, including that processed exclusively
from smallholder green leaf, has gained recognition in world tea markets.
The main importer continues to be the United Kingdom which took some 60 per-
cent of total exports in 1966; the United States was second with 10 percent.
2.02      Spurred by declining markets for its traditional export crops,
mainly coffee, sisal and pyrethrum, the Government of Kenya has been encour-
aging tea production with emDhasis on expanding tea growing by African small-
holders. The smallholder tea planting program was started in the late
fifties with a target of 11,100 acres, known as the First Plan, for which
financial assistance was obtained from the Federal Republic of Germany and
the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). The Second Plan, with a
target of 14,400 acres bv June 30, 1970, was started in 1964 with further
financial assistance from CDC and an IDA credit of US$ 2.8 million (Credit
64-KE). it is now expected that the Second Plan target will be met by June
30, 1968, when total smallholder acreage will reach about 26,800 acres, and
the Government intends to expand its successful program with the planting
of an additional 35,000 acres by June 30, 1973. It is estimated that some
$970,000 of Credit 64-KE would remain undisbursed as at June 30, 1968, which
amount would be available, as originally intended, for meeting the investment
costs involved in bringing the more recently planted acreages to maturity.
2.03      The Government's program for the expansion of tea production by
African smallholders has been, and will continue to be, carried out under
the ausDices of the Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), a statutory
authority. KTDA has also been acting as agent of the Kenya Settlement Fund
Trustees for the development of tea cultivation by smallholders living on
settlement schemes (referred to as Settlement growers), partly financed by



-2-
IBRI) Loan 303-KE. Under this arrangement, KTDA provides the same services
to Settlement growers as it provides to its own smallholders, and is fully
reimbursed for costs. By the end of 1967, some 2,100 acres of Settlement
tea had been planted out and further plantings are expected to take place
during the course of the subject project.
2.04      Taking into account both KTDA smallholders and Settlement growers,
KTDA has successfully sunervised the planting out of 2,400 acres of new tea
in 1964/65, 4,140 acres in 1965/66 and 6,030 acres in 1966/67, and is super-
vising a further 5,860 acres in 1967/68.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project lies within about 1.5 million acres of land scheduled
for African smallholder development, with soils and climates suitable for
tea. It is concentrated in the Kericho, Nandi, Kisii and Kakamega Districts
(West of the Rift Valley) and the Kiambu, Murang'a, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Embu
and Meru Districts (East of the Rift Valley), as shown in the Map. In
Districts West of Rift tea can be grown at altitudes up to 7,300 feet; in
Districts East of Rift the limits are about 7,500 feet on the Aberdare
Mountains, but only 6,000 feet on Mount Kenya.
3.02      The areas selected have well distributed rainfall of at least 55
inches in a normal year. However, extremely dry years can occur as fre-
quently as one year in ten, when rainfall will be only two-thirds of the
long-term average. 1966/67 was such a year for almost all of the tea-growing
districts, when production of green leaf was some 30 percent below expecta-
tions on estates and smallholdings alike.  Allowance for such years has been
made in calculating the operating results of, and benefits from, the project.
3.03      The Government has restricted tea growing to areas where tea is
the only practicable cash crop and where the smnallholders occupy their own
consolidated land. Smallholders are selected by the growers' own District
Tea Committees and by KTDA's supervisory staff with reference to experience
in farming, a satisfactory land title and creditworthiness. Farms range in
size from four to eight acres, but may be as large as 40 to 50 acres in the
less densely populated areas. The smallholders usually grow subsistence
food crops on two or three acres with Dart of the balance used for non-
intensive grazing.
3.04      Roads within the project area need to be improved, and additional
roads constructed, in order to allow for the collection of smallholder leaf
and its transportation to the processing factories. In fulfilment of assur-
ances obtained during negotiations for Credit 64-KE, the Government is
currentlv constructing about 700 miles of roads within the project area,
to a standard which allows KTDA to operate its collection service, with
four-wheel drive vehicles, in all but very wet conditions. About 130 miles
had been comnleted by June 30, 1967 and it is expected that the remainder
will be completed during 1968, with the help of finance from IDA Credit 77-KE.
There will be a need for some additional roads as a result of the new plant-
ings under the project, and this is discussed further in para. 4.19.



-3-
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Arolect Definition
4.0l      The project is part of the smallholder tea development program of
the Government and the Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA). It consists
of a field sector and a factory sector.
4.02      The field sector includes the Dlanting of some 35,000 acres of
smallholder tea in the period 1968/69-1972/73 1/ and the provision of ser-
vices to these smallholdings and to some 26,800 acres of smallholder tea
which are expected to have been planted by June 30, 1968 (see para. 2.02).
The services include the supply and distribution of planting material; super-
vision in the field of smallholder cultivation; the provision of training
facilities; and the collection, inspection and transportation to the pro-
cessing factories of green leaf. The factory sector includes the provision
of processing facilities for green leaf expected to be produced from the
35,000 acres of additional Dlanting under the field sector. IDA would not
contribute finance for the factory sector of the project.
4.03      It will be noted that the above definition of the field sector of
the project incorporates the bringing to maturity of the most recent plantings
under Credit 64-KE (through 1967/68), even though funds remain in the earlier
Credit to be disbursed for this purpose (see para. 2.02). This has been done
to avoid the difficulty of attributing specific KTDA expenditures to sDecific
nlantings. The investment cost of bringing these earlier plantings to maturity
is therefore included as part of the investment cost of the field sector of
the project, and. the undisbursed portion of Credit 64-KE is incorporated into
the financing arrangements. To avoid recurrence of these difficulties should
financing be sought for additional KTDA plantings after 1972/73, the proposed
new credit will be restricted to capital requirements of the field sector of
the project during the period of new plantings only, namely 1968/69-1972/73.
B. Field Development
Planting Program
4.o4      The planting program proposed for the 35,000 acres is as follows:
Years:          1968/69    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73
Acreage:         5,900      6,600       7,000       7,500      8,ooo
and KTDA is to act as agent to the Kenya Settlement Fund Trustees for the
develoDment of an additional 710 acres of tea to be planted out by Settlement
1/   The KTDA year runs from July 1 through June 30.



-4-
growers in 1968/69 (see para. 2.03). This program takes into account the
availability of suitable field extension and leaf inspection staff, and is
considered reasonable in the light of KTDA's recent accomplishments (see
para. 2.04). The breakdown of the proposed planting program by Districts is
given at Annex 1, and reflects a combination of factors including areas
suitable for tea cultivation, yields obtained per acre, the demand for grow-
ing tea (as demonstrated by the number of unfulfilled requests for planting
material during recent years) and the number of farms.
4.05      During the implementation of Credit 64-KE, KTDA was able to control
the acreages planted because it had a virtual monopoly of planting material,
and in this way it ensured that its managerial and administrative resources
were not over-extended. With the introduction and increasing use of vegeta-
tively prouagated (VP) material, however (see paras. 4.07 through 4.11), each
smallholder becomes, in effect, his own nurseryman and control will become
more difficult. A licensing system has therefore been introduced and is des-
cribed in paras. 4.12 and 4.13.  Prior to June 30, 1973, KTDA would not take
on any responsibility for supervising, managing or financing the planting of
any additional tea acreages other than those mentioned in para. 4.04, without
IDA's prior approval.
4.o6      It is KTDA's intention that, prior to June 30, 1973, it will follow
a policy of concentrating tea plantings in areas where smallholder tea is
already being grown. This policy, endorsed by IDA and CDC, should permit con-
siderable reductions in unit costs for field supervision and for leaf collect-
ion, inspection and transportation; and it should also reduce the need for
new tea feeder roads.
Planting Material
4.07      The major recent technological improvement in tea cultivation
techniques involves the introduction of vegetatively propagated (VP) plant-
ing material, i.e. cuttings from selected mother bushes, in lieu of tea
stumps grown from seed. While only about 8 percent of the 1967/68 planting
program is being carried out with VP material, it is planned to make use of
it for some 43 percent of planting in the first year of the project (1968/69)
and for 100 percent of planting thereafter.
4.08      VP planting material has two main advantages:  firstly, plants
grown from it have the characteristics of the mother bush, which can be
carefully selected as having desirable properties such as high yields and
resistance to drought and disease; secondly, cuttings are cheaper than seed
and only spend about six months in nursery beds instead of the two years
required for seedlings. However, as reliance on a small number of clones
can be hazardous since the failure of any one clone in any respect would
then affect a large pronortion of total plantings, KTDA would make planting
material available from a suitably large number of different clones by
1972/73.
4.09      For the first year of the project, when some 43 percent of the
planting prograw will be carried out with VP planting material (see para.



-5-
4.07), some 14 million tea stumps grown from seed will also be required 1/.
It is estimated that some 12 million of these will be available from KTDA's
own nurseries, and arrangements have been made to purchase a further 2 million
from comrercial sources. The tea stumps will be sold to smallholders at 10
cents each (comnared to 30 cents in earlier years), in order to be competitive
with VP planting material.
4.10      For the early years of the VP program, KTDA nurseries are pro-
viding the necessary cuttings from multiplication plots of proven clones ob-
tained from the East African Tea Research Institute (TRI) and from commercial
estates. In order to avoid the high costs of distributing rooted cuttings,
unrooted cuttings are distributed directly to smallholders who root them and
harden them off in their individual nursery units 2/. These units cost about
K Sh 76.00 each (including 1,200 unrooted cuttings at 2 cents each) and KTDA
estimates that the smallholder should be able to produce about 800-900 trans-
plantable rooted cuttings from each unit, at a cash cost to the grower of
about 9 cents each, considerably lower than that for stumps (see para. 4.09).
While definitive results from thie first distribution in 1967 will not be
apparent until the planting-out season in April/May 1968, progress at the time
of the apnraisal mission (October 1967) was most encouraging, the smallholder
nursery units being of a generally high standard.
4.11      To nrovide planting material for the later years of the program,
KTDA is currently distributing cuttings of TRI proven clones (which have
been rooted and hardened-off in KTDA nurseries), to be planted out by farmers
to form their own multiplication plots and from which they will eventually
be able to obtain their own cuttings directly.
N'_ursery and_Planting Licenses
4.12      As mentioned in para. 4.05, control over tea acreages planted -
necessary to ensure that KTDA's managerial and administrative resources are
not over-extended - can no longer be effected by controlling the supply of
planting material, so that a licensing system has been introduced.  Planting
licenses would be issued by KTDA through the smallholders' own District Tea
Committees (see para. 4.39), which have already gained experience by assisting
KTDA in earlier years in the allocation of the then relatively scarce planting
material. Prior to June 30, 1973, KTDA would not issue licenses for acreages
in excess of the agreed planting program in any year except with IDA's prior
anproval. To ensure that smallholders do not seek licenses for more tea than
they really intend to plant out, a development charge of approximately K Sh 100
1/   Some 3,500 stumps (or VP cuttings) are required to plant out one acre of
tea at recommended spacings.
2/   Rooted cuttings are more fragile than tea stumps and have to be transported
from the nursery to the field in the soil in which rooting has taken place,
if damage to the roots is to be avoided. If rooting took place in a central
KTDA nursery, this would involve expensive transport of considerable quan-
tities of soil.



(US$14) per acre will be made for all planting licenses (which would not be
transferable from one year to another) 1/. Control over VP nursery units
would be achieved indirectly, in that a smallholder with such a unit on his
property must have a planting license approximately equivalent to the number
of cuttings in his unit. (If two or more smallholders wish to own collectively
one VP unit, the smallholder on whose property the unit is established must
hold the planting licenses of the whole group during the nursery stage.) Since
it is not known precisely how many transplantable cuttings would be obtained
from a smallholder VP nursery unit (see para. 4.10), planting licenses would
allow for a certain degree of flexibility.
4.13      As it will become relatively easy for a smallholder to obtain the
materials to set up a VP nursery unit, and since the demand for tea planting
licenses is likely to be in excess of the annual acreages that KTDA could
effectively handle, there is a distinct possibility that smallholders might
plant in excess of licensed acreages (or without a license at all). To reduce
this possibility any smallholder who does plant in excess of his licensed
agreage (or without a license) would be prosecuted under existing legislation,
with conviction usually leading to a fine. To check on actual plantings during
the year (as a basis for prosecutions, to measure the success of VP nursery
units and for future planning of KTDA services), KTDA staff would make a visual
inspection of all smallholdings as soon as possible after the main planting
period (April/May). Should this visual inspection show that the total number
of acres actually planted with tea exceeded the planting program set out in
para. 4.04 by more than 10 percent, KTDA would satisfy IDA about the steps
it would propose to take to ensure that its managerial and administrative
resources would not be over-extended.
Fertilizer
4.14      While KTDA does not distribute or finance fertilizer for tea small-
holdings, it has arranged with regular commercial suppliers to collect any
debt repayments by deductions from payments to growers for their green leaf
(see para. 4.21). Without this arrangement, which reduces bad debts to neg-
ligible proportions, it is doubtful if any commercial short-term credit would
have been made available. As it is, the amount of fertilizer sold under such
arrangements in 1965/66 was some 46 percent of what would have been sold if
all smallholders had applied fertilizer at the rates recommended by KTDA. In
1966/67 the fizure rose to some 55 percent and, in projecting yields, costs
and benefits in this report, it has been assumed that it will rise further to
some 60 percent. No IDA funds would be used for this short-term credit.
1/   This development charge (which is equivalent to 3 cents per tea bush)
plus the estimated cost of plants produced in smallholder VP nursery
units (about 9 cents each - see para. 4.10) gives a total cash cost to
the smallholder of 12 cents per bush which is the same rate as the mini-
mum cash charge for tea seedlings in earlier years (see Report No. TO-418a
of July 9, 1964: "Smallholder Tea Development Project, Kenya"; Chapter
III, para. 12).



- 7-
Field Supervision and Trainiin
4.15      Field Supervision is under the control of KTDA's Chief Technical
Officer (CTO), who is assisted by a Deputy CTO and an Assistant CTO, the
latter with special responsibilities for nursery work and for farmer training
(see para. 4.16). Direct suoervision of tea cultivation by smallholders is
currently being carried out by staff seconded to KTDA by the Ministry of
Agriculture under the terms of a Supervision Agreement and this system, which
is working well, would be continued under the terms of a new Supervision Agree-
ment, which provides for the additional staff required to handle the new acre-
ages. The proposed build-up of seconded staff is given at Annex 2. KTDA meets
Ministry expenses incurred under the Supervision Agreement, including the
salaries and overhead costs of the seconded staff and drivers, and the capital
and operating costs of vehicles; but the Ministry provides staff housing at
no canital cost to KTDA. To assist the seconded staff, KTDA directly employs
clerks and Assistant Nursery Managers, junior staff who are specially trained
to supervise the smallholder VP nursery units (see para. 4.10). All but one
of the seconded staff are now Kenyans.
4.16      Farmer training was carried out until recently in two training farms
operated by KTDA, one West of Rift (Kaimosi), the other East of Rift (Kagochi).
This centralized form of training has been found too expensive and difficult
to operate, mainly because of family problems. In future, therefore, farmer
training will be effected by local on-farm demonstrations (in addition to
reaular supervision), which will be organized by the Assistant CTO. The Kaimosi
farm is being returned to the Government (who originally donated it to KTDA),
while the Kagochi farm will be retained for giving courses to seconded field
supervision staff and as a VP nursery center.
Leaf Collection, Insnection and Transnortation
4.17      KTDA is currently operating an effective leaf collection, inspec-
tion and transportation service, through which all smallholder leaf must
pass. The smallholders bring their green leaf to leaf collection centers
(elementary structures built by the smallholders themselves), where it is
insnected and weighed by K'PDA staff prior to being transported to the pro-
cessing factory in KTDA vehicles.  A strict quality control is applied,
which has led to good prices being obtained for tea processed from small-
holder leaf, and KTDA should make every effort to continue it, although this
will become increasingly difficult as the amount of leaf collected grows
from apnroximately 45 million lb expected for 1968/69 to an anticipated 298
million lb by the time all the additional 35,000 acres are fully mature
(1981/82). The proposed build up of the major elements of the service is
given at Annex 3. It is predicted that there will be a considerable improve-
ment in the productivity of leaf collecting staff and vehicles, a reasonable
consequence of the higher density of green leaf production which will result
partly from increasing yields as plantings mature and partly from KTDA's
deliberate policy of concentrating the tea growing areas (see para. 4.06).



- 8 -
4.18      Only elementary instruction is required for the staff of the leaf
collection service and there should be no difficulties in obtaining and
training them. To handle the increasing number of vehicles needed for col-
lection and personnel transportation (some 300 units by 1981/82), KTDA in-
tends to employ, starting in 1968/69, a Transport Officer who will have
extensive mechanical training and experience in local transport problems,
and one mechanic per factory to carry out elementary servicing.
4.19      KTDA is currently using four-wheel drive vehicles for the collec-
tion of leaf, because the quality of the roads over which they must operate
makes their use essential in wet weather (see para. 3.04), and all cost
estimates made in this renort assume that their use will continue. However,
as the capital and operating costs of this type of vehicle have proved higher
than originally anticipated, it might be more economic to construct tea-roads
to a standard that would permit the use of two-wheel drive vehicles. The
Government therefore proposes to hire consultants to carry out a Transport
and Factory Location Study 1/, and the United Kingdom Government has agreed
to meet 80 percent of its cost up to US$168,000 (representing the estimated
foreign exchange component), with the Government providing the remainder.
The consultants are to recommend the most economic method(s) of transportation
of green leaf to, and made tea from, the factories, and detailed recommendations
would be made on the types, numbers and cost of vehicles and the mileage, loca-
tion, standards and costs of roads, taking into account the proposed additional
35,000 acres to be planted out under the project. The Government has indicated
it would consult with KTDA, CDC and IDA on action to be taken on the recom-
mendations of the Study (expected in early 1969). In the mean-time the Govern-
ment would construct and maintain all the necessary roads to a standard which
would allow KTDA to run an efficient leaf collection service, with four-wheel
drive vehicles, in all but very wet conditions. A preliminary estimate is that,
as a consequence of the concentration policy to be followed by KTDA (see para.
4.06), not more than 200 additional miles of roads would be required, and the
costs of constructina and maintaining this amount (to the same standards as
previously) have been taken into account in considering the economic justifi-
cation of the project.
Size of Tea Holdings
4.20      As at June 30, 1967, some 32,600 growers were registered with KTDA,
with an average tea holding of about o.64 acres. However, since many growers
have registered part of their holdings in the names of relatives because 6f
the differential cash deposit rates that used to be charged by KTDA for
seedling planting material, the number of really distinct growers is less
than the figure quoted, and the average tea holding somewhat larger. It is
KTDA's objective that, unon completion of the new plantings proposed under
the project, the average size of tea holding should rise to about 1.0 acres,
involving some 62,000 growers. This objective will be achieved through the
licensing system (see para. 4.12), and it is anticipated that about 26,000
new growers would receive licenses for about 26,000 acres, with licenses for
a further 9,000 acres being given to those existing growers who currently
have less than one acre each.
1/   The matters to be studied concerning the factories are described in
para. 4.24.



-9-
PaNymentsto Growers
4.21      When KTDA delivers green leaf to its factories or to estate fac-
tories for processing (see para. 4.23), it receives a first payment of
40 cents per lb, which is passed on to growers after deduction of cesses
(see para. 4.22) and of short-term fertilizer debt service (see para. 4.14).
Once a year the factories make a second payment to KTDA, the amount of which
depends on the prices they obtained for the processed leaf and on their oper-
ating costs. Before distributing a second payment to growers, KTDA transfers
a small ad hoc amount to its Green Leaf Price Reserve Fund (which stood at
K Sh 1,832,000 (US$ 256,000) as at December 31, 1967). Second payments to
growers during recent years were as follows:
1963/64      1964/65        1965/66    1966/67
............... (cents per lb) 
Growers West of Rift:          7             8              8           9
Growers East of Rift:         10            14             13          14
Weighted Average:              9            12             11          12
Based on the nrice projections given in para. 5.03 it is predicted that it
would not be possible to maintain the first payment at 40 cents. It is
estimated that, by the time new plantings under the project are producing
leaf (1971/72), gross payments would not amount to more than 35 cents,
dropping to 34 cents in 1974/75 and to 33 cents thereafter.
Consolidated Cess
4.22      Smallholders are currently paying KTDA a revenue cess of 10 cents
per lb of green leaf and a capital cess of 7 cents per lb, both cesses being
deducted by KTDA from the first payment (see para. 4.21). The revenue cess
was designed to meet KTDA's recurrent costs and was to be paid for an indef-
inite period.  The capital cess was designed to allow KTDA to recoup, with
interest, its initial investment of planting material and services in the
smallholder prior to his planting coming into bearing, and-was to be paid
for a restricted period of time. The method used to determine the length of
time for which the capital cess had to be paid was very complicated and
proved difficult, if not impossible, to explain satisfactorily to growers.
KTDA therefore intends to change over from this system and, from 1968/69
onwards, to impose a consolidated cess, initially at the rate of 17 cents
per lb of green leaf. Since growers were never intended to pay the capital
cess indefinitely, KTDA proposes to reduce the rate gradually to 10 cents.
The timetable for this reduction which has been assumed for projections
in this reDort represents KTDA's current thinking, and is as follows:
reduction to 16 cents by 1973/74; to 15 cents by 1975/76; to 14 cents
by 1977/78; to 13 cents by 1979/80; and to 10 cents by 1980/81. However,
as the consolidated cess will be KTDA's only source of income after the
drawdown neriod of its various loans, the level of the consolidated cess
would not be reduced unless KTDA!s financial position warranted it, and
unless IDA's prior anoroval had been given.



- 10 -
C. ProcessinR
4.23      As agreed under Credit 64-KE, the Government is meeting commit-
ments to cause to be provided, or to provide, the necessary processing
facilities for leaf produced under that project. KTDA has invested in six
factories, which processed some 84 percent of all smallholder leaf produced
in 1966/67, with the remaining leaf processed in estate factories under
arrangements made by KTDA. To handle the expected rise in production as
plantin.-os under that project mature, KTDA intends to construct a further
11 factories, each of the 17 factories to have an annual throughput of about
1.2 to 1.5 million lb of made tea. CDC has participated in the financing of
all but the first factory, and has declared its intention of participating
in the remaining 11.
4.24      To provide the processing facilities for the leaf to be produced
under this project, it was KTDA's intention to enlarge all the 17 factories
already built or planned to bring them up to an annual throughput of about
2.0 million lb of made tea and then to construct an additional 15 new fac-
tories with that same capacity. However, recent technological advances
indicate that it would now be possible, and perhaps economically desirable,
to construct factories with a larger annual throughput than 2.0 million lb,
coupled with a reduction in the number of factories required. The Transport
and Factory Location Study already referred to (see para. 4.19) is also
designed to produce recommendations on the most economic scale of factory
production, i.e. 2.0 million lb or greater, and on the location of factories.
The program to be followed for the provision of processing facilities can-
not therefore be precisely determined at this time. CDC has expressed its
intention of participating in the financing of these additional facilities,
and it is expected that commercial companies (through KTDA) will provide the
rest. Nevertheless, as processing facilities are a vital part of the project,
assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that they
would be provided as required.
4.25      It is the Government's intention that the smallholders themselves
should eventually own the factories processing their leaf. To this end,
KTDA is arranging that all its factories are incorporated as separate enti-
ties and provisions are made to allow the smallholders to buy shares in them.
To date, smallholders have purchased shares in five of the six KTDA factories,
although they will not be allowed to have a majority holding until after the
factory debts to CDC, KTDA and commercial partners have been paid off.
D. Cost Estimates
4.26      As indicated in para. 4.03, the project includes the bringing to
maturity of the most recent plantings under Credit 64-KE. The estimated
investment cost of this part of the project - which was foreseen in earlier
cost estimates for Credit 64-KE and for which purpose funds remain to be
disbursed from Credit 64-KF - is about K Sh 13.7 million (US$1.9 million).
As also indicated in para. 4.03, the proposed new credit will be restricted



- 11 -
to capital requirements under the project during the planting period only,
namely 1968/69-1972/73. The estimated investment cost of this part of the
project is about K Sh 51.6 million (US$7.2 million), resulting in a total
cost of the field sector of K Sh 65.3 million (US$9.1 million). The table
below shows the breakdown by major items; further details are given at
Annex 4:
SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Local        Foreign
Curr!enc       Exchange   Total
.......... (K Sh million).
Planting material preparation                       6.3             1.8       8.1
Smallholder nursery units and fertilizer            5.3             2.4      7.7
Field supervision                                  10.3             1.1     11.4
Leaf collection and inspection                      3.9             3.2       7.1
KTDA Head Office                                    5.1             1.6      6.7
Interest during development                         3.6             0.7      4.3
Contingency on KTDA expenditure                     0.9             0.2      1.1
On-farm labor                                      18.9              -      18.9
Total               54.3           11.0      65.3
~=                  _ =
Percentage           83             17        100
4.27      In estimating the investment cost of the field sector of the proj-
ect, only the following items have been included:
a)   all expenditures on KTDA nurseries and smallholder nursery
units;
b)   those expenditures on field supervision, KTDA Head Office,
on-farm labor and fertilizer that are attributable to
immature acreages; 1/
c)   all expenditures on additional vehicles for the leaf
collection and inspection service (with expenditures
on replacement vehicles and all staff and operating
costs being considered recurrent);
d)   contingency provision on investment expenditure incurred
by KTDA 2/; and
1/  Tea bushes are considered immature for the first three years after
plantingr out, although a small amount of leaf can usually be plucked in
the third year. Plucking costs have, however, been excluded from the
calculation.
2/   An average of 3.4 percent over the five-year period.



- 12 -
e)   interest payments on new borrowing by KTDA during the in-
vestment period.
Figures representing expenditure by KTDA have been derived from KTDA esti-
mates, which are based on recent experience and are considered reasonable,
subject to the quoted contingency provision. The financial value of on-farm
labor has been derived by costing it at the going rate in the tea growing
areas 1/, whether the labor is provided by the smallholders' families or by
hired labor.
4.28      The foreign exchange component of K Sh 11.0 million (US$ 1.5 mil-
lion) represents some 17 percent of the total investment cost. The major
items are vehicles for the leaf collection service, field supervision and
KTDA's Head Office, and fertilizer. Other items are interest to be paid on
the Dronosed new CDC loan, gasoline and oil for vehicle operating and 40 per-
cent of the salaries of all executive staff. The latter figure is an estimate
of the amount of such salaries which executive staff would normally expect to
spend on imnorted goods: no account has been taken of the amount of their
salaries that lower-paid workers might spend on imported goods.
E.   Proposed Financing
4.29      The total investment cost of the project estimated at K Sh 65.3
million would be met from the following sources:
SUWMARY PROPOSED FINANCING
Plantings
Prior to        New              Percentage
June 30  1968   Plantings  Total   of Total
........ T K Sh million) .
Undisbursed balance,
Credit 64-KE                      6.9             -         6.9        11
Pronosed new IDA credit
(US$2.1 million)                   -            14.8      14.8         23
Proposed new CDC loan (E450,000)    -              7.4        7.4        11
KTDA cash receipts from
smallholders 1/                   4.9           12.4      17.3         26
Smallholders' labor                 1.9           17.0       18.9        29
13.7          51.6       65.3       100
1/   Through the purchase of VP nursery units, planting material and ferti-
lizers and through payment to KTDA of the develooment charge and conso-
lidated cess.
1/   K Sh 2.50 (US$0.35) per day.



- 13 -
It is important to note that, as indicated in paras. 4.03 and 4.26, this
proposed financing only covers the planting period through 1972/73. After
1972/73 there will still remain a three-year period (1973/74-1975/76) during
which KTDA will continue to have net capital requirements to bring the plant-
ings under the project to maturity. The amount involved, estimated at
K Sh 6.2 million (US$0.9 million), would be provided or would be caused to
be provided by the Government, probably as part of the financing that would
be required if further planting was to take place after 1972/73.
Disbursement
4.30      In order to avoid the difficulty of attributing specific KTDA expend-
itures to specific plantings, it is proposed that the Agreement for Credit 64-KE
be amended to allow disbursement in respect of both the old and the new plant-
ings under the proposed project, up to its original closing date of December
1970. After the balance of Credit 64-KE is fully disbursed, the proposed new
IDA credit would be disbursed with the proposed CDC loan in the ratio of 2:1.
4.31      It is proposed that the new IDA credit of K Sh 14.8 million (US$2.1
million) be disbursed against:
a)   100 percent of the CIF cost of vehicles (about
US$0.8 million): and
b)   a portion of other capital expenditures by KTDA
on the project (about US$1.3 million).
Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit and CDC loan taken together would be
limited to KTDA's net capital requirements during the period covered by the
corresponding withdrawal request. Requests for disbursements of the proposed
IDA credit would be supported by full import documentation in respect of the
vehicles and by certificates from KTDA showing net canital expenditures during
the periods covered by the disbursement requests.
Procurement
4.32      International comnetitive bidding procedures would be followed
for the purchase of vehicles to be used for leaf collection, with a CIF
Mombasa value of about US$650,000. Such procedures would not be followed
for any other KTDA caoital exDenditures because either the amounts involved
would be too small or the nature of the expenditures (e.g. for staff ser-
vices) inanDpropriate.
Subsidianr  Loan Agreements
4.33      The Government would continue to lend the proceeds of Credit 64-KE
to KTDA at 5.5 percent with repayment over the eight years 1972/73 - 1979/80.
The Droceeds of the proposed new IDA credit would be lent to KTDA at 6.5
percent, with a term of 12 years, including eight years of grace. Each with-
drawal of the CDC loan (which would be made direct to KTDA) would be interest
free for two years, but would be subject to a 1.25 percent commission: there-
after, interest would be charged at 8.5 percent. These commission and interest



- 14 -
rates, counled with a commitment charge of 0.5 percent, are equivalent to an
average interest rate of about 6.5 percent over the life of the loan, which
would be renaid _ari passu with the Government loan in the same ratio as for
disbursements, namely one to two.  The terms of the Government and CDC loans
to KTDA would be set out in a subsidiary loan agreement which would be con-
cluded, in a form satisfactory to IDA, before the proposed new IDA credit
becomes effective.
K'DA Oyerating Results
4.34      The cash-flow projection for KTDA is given at Annex 5.  It includes
income and expenditure related only to KTDA's own smallholders, and excludes
expenditures on behalf of, and contributions received from, the Settlement
Fund Trustees (see para. 2.03). The projection assumes that the consolidated
cess will be reduced gradually (see para. 4.22), and allowance has been made
for drought years by reducing estimated income from this source by 5 percent
for all years (see para. 3.02). Additional data on KTDA's existing debt ser-
vice obligations are given at Annex 6.
4.35      For the purnoses of the cash-flow projection it has been assumed
that KTDA's net capital requirements over the period 1973/74-1975/76 (see
para. 4.29) would be covered by loans at 7 percent interest, with repayment
of principal commencing immediately after reDayment of the presently proposed
CDC and Government loans.
4.36      After 1975/76, KTDA revenues should be sufficient to meet all oper-
ating exDenses and debt service obligations. KTDA would seek IDA's approval
before incurring any additional indebtedness with a term longer than 12 months.
Accounts and Audit
4.37      KTDA's accounts would continue to be audited semi-annually by in-
denendent accountants satisfactory to IDA. Since KTDA was established, its
accounts have been audited by Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co., Chartered Accountants
and Auditors in Nairobi. KTDA's audited Balance Sheet as at December 31, 1967
is summarized at Annex 7.
F. Or anization and Manaement
4.38      There have been no changes in the constitution of KTDA since Credit
64-KE was signed. The Board currently consists of the representative of the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, the representative of the
Director of Agriculture, the Chairman of the Kenya Tea Board, the representa-
tive of CDC 1/, the General Manager of KTDA, seven smallholder representatives
11   CDC has the right to a representative on the Board while KTDA is indebted
to CDC.



- 15 -
and a Chirman appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister of Agri-
culture has powers to appoint up to two members who, in his opinion, would be
suitably qualified to further the work of KTDA; but he has not appointed any.
Provision is made for any substantial lender to KTDA to appoint a member to
the Board.
4.39      Reiional Tea Boards, and District and Divisional Tea Committees,
were set up under KTDA's constituion as advisory bodies, with the smallholder
representatives on the KTDA Board elected from the former. Although these
bodies have very limited powers, KTDA's Board always considers their recom-
mendations with great care, and all official minutes of their meetings are
tabled and discussed at KTDA Board meetings. They have acted as a very useful
two-way information channel between KTDA and the individual growers, and have
carried out many duties under KTDA's control, such as recommending the number
of new growers to be allowed in each District in each planting year. They
have acted in a generally responsible manner and have become an essential part
of KTDA's operational structure. They will play an important part in the
licensing system for new plantings under this project (see para. 4.12).
4.4o      KTDA has maintained a high standard of organization and management
during the implementation of Credit 64-KE to date. The post of Chief Technical
Officer is now occupied by a Kenyan who gained experience while serving as
deputy to an expatriate, and the Kenyan Assistant General Manager will take
over from the exDatriate General Manager in October 1968. The only senior
post then filled by an expatriate would be that of the Chief Accountant, who
is seconded from CDC. IDA would continue to be consulted about any proposed
apDointments to KTDA's senior management positions, or to the KTDA Board where
that appointment is at the discretion of the Minister of Agriculture.
V. PRODUCTIOIL MARKETS AND SNALLHOLDER BENEFITS
A. Yields and Production
5.01      It has become apparent from experience over the past few years that,
under conditions of smallholder cultivation, tea bushes take about nine years
to mature fully (rather than the six years predicted at the time of the ap-
Draisal of Credit 64-KE), and that yields vary from district to district. The
district variations reflect variations in soils, climate and the abilities of
farmers, but the relative importance of these factors is not known. Improve-
ments in cultivation methods and the introduction of VP planting material
(see para. 4.08) are having a positive effect on yields in all districts.
Full maturity yields now projected for bushes grown from VP planting material
range from about 900 to about 1,350 lb of made tea per acre, according to
district, compared with the 1,000 lb of made tea per acre predicted at the
time of appraisal of Credit 64-KE (for all districts, for bushes grown from
seedling planting material).  These projections have been thoroughly discus-
sed with KTDA, TRI and CDC and are considered to be realistic. Further details
are given at Annex 8.



- 16 -
5.02      Assuming the yield nrojections given at Annex 8, production from
the 35,000 acres of new plantings under the project would start with about
1.3 million lb of made tea in 1971/72, reaching about 15 million lb by
1974/75, about 33 million lb by 1977/78 and about 40 million lb at full ma-
turity (1981/82). The economic productive life of the tea bush is considered
to be in excess of fifty years.
B. Markets and Prices
5.03      The average price of all teas, and of Kenya teas, at the London
Tea Auctions over the period 1958-66 are given at Annex 9. World production
and consumDtion were generally in balance, but there was a steady decline in
the average Drice of all teas. Althouph there has been a recent rise in
London Tea Auction prices as a result of the recent devaluation of sterling,
the rise (about 5 percent) was not enough to offset the effects of the
devaluation (about 14 percent) and the net effect has been a decline of
about 10 percent in real terms. Since FAO projections to 1975 indicate
that world Droduction may rise an average of 3.4 percent per year, while
consumption may rise only by 2.3 to 2.7 percent per year, it is expected
that tea prices will continue to decline from this new level.  However, the
decline is not expected to bear equally strongly on all types of tea, in
view of the structural changes that have taken place in the international
market for tea which have favored the medium and plain teas such as are
produced in East Africa. Projections of benefits for the project have been
based on a steady decline in the FOB Mombasa price of tea levelling off at
K Sh 2.70 per lb of made tea by 1975/76. It should be pointed out that
these price projections represent the most pessimistic view of the long
term effects of devaluation, and a more ontimistic view is that prices might
firm un and that the decline might be held to K Sh 3.00 per lb.
C. Smallholder Benefits
5.o4      The net annual farm cash income, at full development, from an acre
of tea planted with VP material in 1968/69, is estimated as follows:
NET A11NNUAL FARM CASH INCOME
(One acre of tea, at full development)
Using                     Using
Fami Labor               Hired Labor 1/
Kisii District               K Sh 1,230   (US$172)   K Sh 690        (US$97)
Kericho, Kirinyaga or
Embu Districts             K Sh 1,190   (US$167)   K Sh 670        (US$94)
Kiambu, Murang'a, Nyeri
or Meru Districts          K Sh   990   (US$139)   K Sh 540        (US$76)
Nandi or Kakamega Districts K Sh   800   (US$112)   K Sh 420         (US$59)
1/   This column also represents the income that would be received by the
farm family (using family labor) over and above the income they could
have earned by working the same number of days on an estate.



- 17 -
These assessments assume the yields predicted at Annex 8, reduced by 5 percent
in order to take account of the possibility of drought (see para. 3.02). They
also assume that the rate of consolidated cess would be reduced gradually (see
para. 4.22) and that payments to growers would be as predicted in para. 4.21.
In addition to cash income from this acre of tea (which will be the average
Dlanted by new growers under the project - see para. 4.20), the smallholders
would have subsistence crops (see para. 3.03). A detailed assessment of the
costs and benefits to the smallholder for an acre planted in the Kiambu,
Plurang'a, Nyeri or Meru Districts (where yields are estimated to be just below
the weighted average for new plantings under the project) is given at Annex 10.
5.05      These results compare favorably with the average annual farm family
cash income in Kenya as a whole of K Sh 220 (US$31), and considerably exceed
anvthinr obtainable from traditional forms of agriculture in the major tea
growing areas.  As mentioned in para. 3.03, the Government has restricted
tea growinpr to areas where tea is the only practicable cash crop.
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project would bring about 26,000 smallholders into the cash eco-
nomy and permit cash earnings as indicated in para. 5.04. It would also re-
duce KTDA's unit onerating expenses due to the economies of scale resulting
from its policy of concentrating the planting of new tea in the existing tea
areas (see para.. 4.06).  This would enable KTDA to reduce the consolidated
cess and increase the smallholders' cash incomes.
b.012     On the basis of the production and market forecasts made in this
report, and reducing gross benefits by 5 percent each year to make allowance
for drought years (see para. 3.02), the average net return to the economy of
the pronosed investment in the new plantings under the project is estimated
to be somewhere between 25 and 16 percent, depending on the value placed on
smallholder labor (somewhere between zero and 100 percent of the current wage
rate) (Annex 11) 1/. This calculation reflects costs and benefits attribut-
able to the new plantings under the project, including KTDA expenditures, on-
farm cash costs and the construction and maintenance of additional tea feeder
roads (see para. 4.19). As the factory program is not yet precisely defined
(see para. 4.24), a tentative allocation of factory investment and operating
costs has been included at rates likely to be considerably reduced in practice
(see footnote 6, Annex 11).
1/   While the shadow nrice (economic cost) of on-farm labor is currently very
low (the labor for the project is being provided by the smallholders'
under-employed families or with partial assistance from hired laborers
who would otherwise be under-employed), it can be expected to rise gra-
dually as the Kenyan economy develops. It is difficult to make any
quantitative prediction about this rise.



- 18 -
6.03      It has also been assumed in this economic calculation that tea
growing will not materially reduce the production of other crops. As explained
in para. 3.03, the Government has restricted tea growing to areas where tea
is the only practicable cash crop. Only negligible benefits could be expected
from the alternative use of these lands, such as for non-intensive grazing.
6.o4      The project will help the Kenya balance of payments.  On the assump-
tion of the FOB Mombasa prices predicted in para. 5.03, and since most of the
tea produced from plantings under the project would be exported, the gross
foreign exchange value of production at full development (1981/82 onwards)
would amount to about K Sh 102 million (US$l4.2 million) per year, after de-
ductinr 5 percent to make allowance for drought years (see para. 3.02). After
making allowances for the foreign exchange component of factory and field
production costs, including debt service, there would be net foreign exchange
earnings from 1972/73 onwards. These would reach about K Sh 80 million
(IJS$11.2 nillion) by 1981/82, and more thereafter. In calculating net foreign
exchange earnings, no account has been taken of possible increases in purchases
of imported goods by smallholders.
VII. CONCLUISIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      "2he project, which is the further development of an already succesful
program partlv financed by IDA Credit 64-KE, is well conceived, technically and
economically sound and is suitable for an IDA credit of $2.1 million.
7.02      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained, amongst others:
(a) that KTDA would not license plantings in any of the years
1968/69 through 1972/73 in excess of the agreed planting
progran for that year, without IDA's prior approval; should
the actual acreage be in excess of the agreed program by
more than 10 percent, that KTDA would satisfy IDA about the
stens it would propose to take to ensure that its managerial and
administrative resources would not be over-extended (paras. 4.12
and 4.13); and
(b)  that KTDA would consult IDA about any proposed appointments
to KTDA's senior management positions; and that the Government
would consult IDA about any proposed appointments to the KTDA
Board where that appointment is at the discretion of the
Minister of Agriculture (para. 4.40).



SSCOND KRMYA TEA DEVELOP-1$UNT AUTHORITY PROJECT
PROPOSED PLANTING PROGRAM
(in acres)
First and Second Plan Plantings                     Proposed Project Plantings
District        As of                     Sub-                                                    Sub-
June 30, 1967     1967/68    Total    1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  Total       Total
(Aetual)     (Proposed)
FKiambu         2,860           794      3,654        700      700      700      800      800   3,700      7,354
14urang'a       2,394           625      3,019        800    1,000    1,000    1,100    1,100   5,000      8,019
Ny3ri           2,964           369      3,333        500      700      700      80O      800   3,500     6,833
Kirinyaga       1,1461          226      1,687        300      300      300      300      24)O   1,600     3,287
Embu              762           186        948       300       300      300      300      300   1,500      2,1448
IMIeru          2,136           503      2,639        500      700      900      900    1,000   4,000      6,639
Kericho         3,134           855      3,989     1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,200   5,600       9,589
Kisii           3,069           9214     3,993     1,100    1,200    1,300    1,300   1,LOO   6,300    10,293
Naidi           1,595           3314     1,929       300       300      300      300       300   1,500     3,429
Kakamega          928           558      1,1486       300      300      400      600       700   2,300     3,786
E.geyo/
Marakwet          35            65        100        -        -        -        -         -       -         100
Total:       21,338         5,1439    26,777     5,900    6,600    7,000    7,500    8,000  35,000    61,777






SECOND KENYA TEA DEVEJLOPiPHNT AUTHOITY PROJECT
PROPOSED BUILD-UP OF FIELD SUPERVISION STAhF
(Second3d t,o KTDA by the Ministry of Agricultur-<)
1968/69  1969"/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76
As at                                                                          and
Jun) 30, 1967                                                                     there-
(Actual)                                                                        after
Senior T3a Officers (STO)W/       2             2        2        2         2        2         2        2         2
T3a Officrs (TO)!/              12           13        13       13        13       13        13       13        13
Assistant Tea Officers (ATO)I/   1              8        8        8         8        8         8        8         8
Agricultural Assistants (AA)/  41             60        80      100       120      125       100       80        60
Junior Agricultural
Assistants (JAA)4/            142          250       325       430      470      500       400      300       250
Not?:  The above staffing schedule also covers sup.rvision of Ssttllment Schem3 growers (see para 2.03 of the imain
report).
1/ One to covc.r tea-growing areas West of Rift, the other to cover areas East of Rift.
2/ One for each administrative District.                                                                       !S
2/ To assist the TO's in those Districts in which there are heavy concentrations of tea -r)wers.
4/ AA's and JAA's are junior staff operating under the control of Tea Officers.  They are capable of
instructing and supervising smallholdErs in planting and cultivating tea.  The staffing rate for JAA's
is as follows:  (a)  One JAA per 100 new growers with VP nursery units.
(b)  One JAA pe 100-150 existing growers with VP nurs-ry units.
(c)  One J-A per 200 exis&-iing growers w-ithout VP nursery units.
Th_ staffin, rate for AAIs is approximately one per every 4 0,l1iA"s.






SECO-ND KENYA TEA DEVELOPME1NZ AUTHORITY PROJECT
LEAF COLLECTION SERVICE
(Estimates of' major elements only)
1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73 --- L975/76 --- 1278/79 --- 1981/82
Quantity of green leaf to be
collected (million lb)                4          61         79       100       124   ---   218           284   ---   298
No. of' leaf' collectors               190        217       244        287        330   ---   496   ---   614   ---   639
Thousands of lb of green leaf
collected per leaf collector         237        281       323        348        376   ---   440   ---   463   ---   466
No. of 5-ton collecting vehicles        63         75         89       105        124   ---   197   ---   249   ---   259
Thousands of  lb of green leaf
collected per vehicle                714        813       888        952     1,000   --- 1,107   --- 1,141   --- 1,151
Total cost of service (thousands                5                    7,250      9,200       14,400      15,00
of Kenya shillings)                 4,250       150      6           200                                            6,4oo
Average cost (cents per lb of
green leaf)                            11         8          8         7          7   ---      7   ---     5---         5
Note,: The above schedule also covers collection of green leaf produced by Settlement Scheme growers (see para 2.03 of  
the main report).                                                                                                       I z






SECOND KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
ESTIMATED INVESTMENT COST OF THE FIEIL SECTOR
(in thousands of Kenya shillings)
- of which
1968/69     1969/70      1970/71      1971/72      1972/73       TOTAL      foreign exchange
A. NEW PLLNTINGS UNDER THE PROJECT
Planting Material Preparation                        4,978          844          820          772          706       8,120             1,780
Field Supervision                                      595        1,213       1,893        2,461        2,106        8,568               833
KTDA Head Office                                       399          733       1,054        1,330        1,311        4,827             1,139
Leaf Collection and Inspection Service                -            -            -             447       1,254        1,701               765
Interest during development                             39          264         1497         823        1,174        2,797               651
Contingencies on K`%DA Expenditure 1/                   60           56         113          251           397         877               172
On-farm materials                                      830        1,556        1,654       1,771        1,890         7,701            2,450
On-farm labor                                        1,888        2,915        3,641       4,143         4,431      17,018             _
TOTAL:           8,789        7,581        9,672      11,998       13,569       51I609             7,790
B., PLANTINGS PRIOR TO JUNE 30, 1968
Field Supervision                                    1,383          987          479         _            -           2,849              277
KTDA Head Office                                       928          596          267         _            -          1,791               423
Leaf Collection and Inspection Service               1,375          944        1,208          977          924        5,428            2,443
Interest during development                            242          414          414          41h         -           1,484             _
Contingencies qn KTDA Expenditure 1/                    37           51           59           49           65          261               82
On-farm labor                                        1,030          634          188         _            -          1,852
TOTAL:          _4,995        3,626        2,615        1,440          989       13,665            3,225
C. TOTAL INVESTMENT COST OF PROJECT (A + B)
Planting Material Preparation                        4,978          844          820          772          706       8,120             1,780
On-farm materials                                      830        1,556        1,654        1,771        1,890        7,701            2,450
Field supervision                                    1,978        2,200        2,372        2,461        2,406      11,417             1,110
Leaf collection and inspection                       1,375          944        1,208        1,424        2,178        7,129            3,208
KTDA Head Office (including Training Farm)           1,327        1,329       1,321         1,330       1,311        6,618             1,562
Interest during development                            281          678          911        1,237        1,174        4,281              651
Contingency on KTDA expenditure 1/                      97          107          172          300          462        1,138              254
On-farm labor                                        2,918        3,549        3,829        4,143        4,431       18,870             -
GRAND TOTAL:          13,784       11,207       12,287       13,438       14,558       65,274           11,015
>4
NOTE:  See para. 4.27 of the main report for criteria used for determining which expenditures are counted as investment costs.
1/ 1 percent in 1968/69; 2 percent in 1969/1970; 3 percent in 1970/71; 5 percent in 1971/72; and 7 percent in 1972/73.






SECOND KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
KTDA CASH FLUW PROJECTION
(In thousands of Kenya Shillings)
CDC loan interest at; 1a  for the first *wo years of each tranche, thereafter  at 8 %) Weighted  average interest 6h%
IDA credit onlent at 6 %
Total loan - K Sh 22.2 million
IDA  - K Sh 14.8 million (U,S$2.1 million)
CDC  - K Sh  7.4 million (F150,000)
1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83
A. CASH OUTFLOW
1/
Planting Material Preparation         4,978       844       820      772       706       -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -          -
Field Supervision                    3,2146    3,762    4,444    4,856    5,066    4,380    3,770    3,358    3,342    3,282    3,222    3,222    3,222    3,222    3,222
Leaf InspecW,on and Collection        4,756    4,856    5,750    6,458    8,074    7,990   10,082   12,498   11,954   13,550   12,886   13,480   13,420   13,774   13,774
Head Office'                         2,178    2,274    2,474    2,624    2,760    2,864    3,030    3,096    3,266    3,368    3,430    3,468    3,516    3,516    3,516
Sub-T 3al:                  15,158   11,736   13,488   14,710   16,606   15,234   17,282   18,952   18,562   20,200   19,538   20,170   20,158   20,512   20,512
Contingencies)                          152       235      405       736    1,162    1,523    1,728    1,895    1,856    2,020    2,931    3,026    3,024    3,077    3,077
Total:                      15,310   11,971   13,893   15,446   17,768   16,757   19,010   20,847   20,418   22,220   22,469   23,196   23,182   23,589   23,589
Debt service,4bligations:
(a) Existing- - principal               460       460      460    1,832    2,994    4,789    5,609    5,337    5,174    4,763    3,906    3,906                 40      4140      -
- interest            2,320    2,438    2,416    2,394    2,276    2,082    1,778    1,423    1,090              778       488       261        34        32       -
(b) New IDA credit   principal          -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -      3,112    3,112    5,335    3,260          -         -         -
- interast         -         211       432      645       858       963       963       963       963       761       559       212       -         -         -
(c) New CDC loan - commitment charge  39          35        26        18        10       -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         _          _
- principal          -         -         -                   -        -         -         -       1,556    1,556    2,668    1,630          -         -
5/- interest           -          18        39       160       306      437       556       630       630       498       365       139       -         -         -
(d) Future loan- - principal                                                   -         -         -         -         -         -         -      1,716    3,566        924        -
- interest                               -                   -        132       344       428       434       434       434       434       314        65       -
(e) Temporary overdraft - interest    10          10        10        10        10        10       -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -
Grand Total:                18,139   15,143   17,276   20,505   24,222   25,170   28,260   29,628   33,377   34,122   36,224   34,754   27,136   25,050   23,589
B. CASH INFLOW
Development charge                      590       660       700      750       800       -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Planting Material Sales               1,708        26       -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Consolidated Cess               6    6,810    9,084   11,708   14,824   18,496   21,386   26,016   29,450   33,598   34,282   36,346   34,754   27,136   27,306   27,306
Loan withdrawal (Credit 64-KE)-    6,900          -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Loan withdrawal (Proposed IDA
Credit)           1,421    3,582    3,245    3,287    3,284          -         -         _         _         -         _         _         _         _         _
Loan withdrawal (Proposed CDC
loan)      5/       710    1,791    1,623    1,644    1,642          -         _         -         _         _         _
Loan withdrawal (Future loan)-          -         -         -         -        -       3,784    2,244        178       _         _         _         _         _         _         _
Grand Total:                18,139   15,143   17,276   20,505   24,222   25,170   28,260   29,628   33,598   34,282   36,346   34,754   27,136   27,306   27,306
Note: All figures net of payments from, or to, Settlement Fund Trustees (see pera 2.03 of main report)
1/  KTDA Nursery costs, purchase of tea stumps from commercial sources, and transportation of tea stumps to the smallholder.
2/  Includes net cost of Kagochi training farm - after 1971/75 income from sales of green leaf produced on the farm will meet its costs.
7/  1968/69 - 1%; 1969/70 - 2%; 1970/71 - 3%; 1971/72 - 5%, 1972/73 - 7f; 1973/74 through 1977/78 - 10%; thereafter at 15%.
/  See Annex 6.
3/  See para 4.35 of the main report.
g/  It is estimated that only K Sh 13.1 million of the K Sh 20.0 million credit will have become eligible for withdrawal from Credit 64-KE
(US$2.8 million) by June 30, 1968.






Annex 6
Page 1
SECOND KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
DEBT SERVICE ON EXISTING KTDA OBLIGATIONS
(Kenya Shillings)
A. Principal Repayments
Onlending
of a West    Onlending
German       of IDA        Govt. of
Year         CDC        Loan  1/   Credit 64-KE    Kenya 2/       Total
1968/69                  424,000          -          36,0oo         460,000
1969/70         -        424,000          -          36,000         460,000
1970/71        -         424,000          -          36,ooo         460,000
1971/72    1,371,500    424,000           -          36,000       1,831,500
1972/73    1,834,300    424,0Co         700,000      36,000       2,994,300
1973/74    2,828,600    424,000       1,500,000      36,000       4,788,600
1974/75    2,948,600    424,000       2,200,000      36,000       5,608,600
1975/76    2,177,200    424,000       2,700,000      36,000       5,337,200
1976/77    1,714,300    424,000       3,OOO,OOO      36,000       5,174,300
1977/78    1,422,900       -          3,300,000      40,000       4,762,900
1978/79      565,600       -          3,300,000      4o,000       3,905,600
1979/80      565,600       -          3,300,000      4o,000       3,905,600
1980/81        -           -              -             000          4,ooo
1981/82        -           -              -         440,000         440,000
Totals:  15,428,600  3,816,000    20,000,000       94l.,000    ,0,168,600
1/ Original loan was for equivalent of K Sh. 4,240,000, of which
K Sh 424,000 will have been repaid by June 30, 1968.
2/ A series of small loans taken over by KTDA from predecessor
institutions.






Annex 6
Page 2
SECOND KENYA TEA DhVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
DEBT SERVICE ON EXISTBIG KTDA OBLIGATIONS
(Kenya Shillings)
B. Interest
Onlending
of a W4est    Onlending
German        of  IDA        Govt. of
Year             CDC          Loan       Credit 64-KE       Kena         Total
1968/69         1,129,700     172,000          960,000       58,0o0      2,319,700
1969/70        1,129,700      152,000        1,100,000       569000     2,437,700
1970/71        1,129,700      132,000        1,100,000       54,000     2,415,700
1971/72        13129,700      112,000        1,100,000       52,000     2,393,700
1972/73        1,032,000       94,000        1,100,000       50,000     2,276,000
1973/74           900,000      74,000        1,060,000       48,000     2,082,000
1974/75           697,700      54,000          980,000       46,000     1,777,700
1975/76          486,900       34,000          858oOOO       44,000     1,422,900
-976/77          324,000       14,000          710,000       42,000     1,090,000
1977/78          193,700          -            544,000       40,000       777,700
1978/79            85,700          -           364,000       38,000       487,700
1979/80           42,900           -           182,000       36,ooo       260,900
1980/81               -            -                         34,000         34,000
1981/82               -           -                          32,000        32,000
Totals     8,281,700      838,000       10,058,00o     630,000    19,807;,700






Annex 7
SECOND KENYA TEA DEVELOPRENT AUTHORITY FROJECT
AUDITED KTDA BALANCE SHEM AS AT DECMER 31, 1967
(Summarized)
(in Kenya pounds (Kb) = K Sh 20.0)
Assets                                           (Ka  '000)
Buildings, furniture and office equipment  126.1
Automotive equipment                        16L.9
Tea baskets, scales and nursery equipment    26.9
317.9
Less depreciation                         119G2     198.7
Green Leaf Price Reserve Investments                 88.0
Investments in factories                            215.7
Current assets                                      229.0
Development Expendituresil/                       1,500.8
2,232.1l/
Liabilities
Loan Capital/                                     1,7I46.2
Unrealized surplus on Stering devaluation           143.6
Unsecured advances                                  125.5
Green Leaf Price Reserve                             91.6
Current Liabilities                                 114.2
House purchase finance                               11.0
2,232.1Z/
2/ The development expenditure shown in the balance sheet is the excess
of expenses over revenues incurred for the development of tea.
/ Apparent errors in addition due to rounding.
3/ Commonwealth Development Corporation:            b  771,429
Kenya Government:                               b  839,266
Loans taken over from
predecessor institutions:      b 82,266
Onlending of West German loan:   b2011'400-
Onlending of IDA Credit 64-KE:  b555 600
Other (for reinvestment in factorie'T7          b 135,h92
bl,746,187






Annex 8
SECOND KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
DISTRICT YIELD RATINGS
1. For all Plantings up to 1964/65
(Planted with seedling material,
not pegged) _/
Year after
Plantn       3rd    th  5th   6th   7th   8th   9th
Kiambu, I1krang'a, iJyeri)
and i4eru Districts     )               150   350   500   650   750   850   900
Kirinyaga, Enbu and    )200   450   650   850   950  1000  1000
Kericho Districts       )
Kisii District                          250   500   700   900  1050  1100  1100
Distictsd Kaka)ega                      100   250   400   500   600   650   700
2. For Plantings from 1965/66.through
1968/69 (Assumes seedling material
and 80% of acreage pegged) 1
Kiambu,  Distringsa,  yeri)             200   450   600   750   850   900   900
Kirinyaga, Embu and    )                250   500   650   850   950  1000  1000
Kericho Districts       )
Kisii District                          300   550   700   900  1050  1100  1100
Nandi and Kakamega                      150   300   50   550   600   650   700
Districts               )
3. For Plantings from 1969/70 oniwards
(Assumes all VP and Pegged)
Kiambu, lIrang a, Nyeri)                200   450   650   900  1000  1050  1100
and Meru Districts      )
Kirinyaga, Embu and    )250   550   800  1050  1150  1250  1300
Kericho Districts       )
Kisii District                          300   550   800  1050  1200  1300  1350
DNtrictd Kakamega       )               150   4;00  650   750   800   850   900
1/ "Pegging" is an improved technique of training tea bushes into an
optimum shape for plucking leaf.
2/ The acreages to be planted with VP material in 1967/68 and 1968/69
have been ignored in these projections.
NOTE: At the time of appraisal for Credit No. 64-KE, it was assumed that yields
would be the same for all Districts. with 200 lb of made tea being ob-
tained in the 3rd year after planting, 400 lb in the 4tth year5 800 lb
nn the 5th year and 1,000 lb in the 6th and subsequent years.






SECOND KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
AVERAGE LONDON TEA AUCTION PRICES
(PENCE  PER  POUND)
65                 1    1    1                               I 1  1  1  1          1    1           65
ACTUALS                      ACTUALS                        PROJECTED
(PRE-DEVALUATION)           (POST-DEVALUATION)
60                                                                                                  60
_AVERAGE PRICE
55                                                      - FOR ALL TEAS                              55
IN JANUARY, 1968
50         ,    '_          sx  ,\' "\>^ ;;                                                         50
4       KENYA TEAS                                             ;5
45                                                                                                  45
PROJECTED KENYA TEA
PRICES, EQUIVALENT TO
F.O.B. MOMBASA PRICES
ASSUMED IN MAIN REPORTO
40                                                                                                  40
O                           I               I               I                  I    I              O
'58  '59  '60  '61  '62  '63  '64  '65  '66  '67  '68  '69  '70  '71  '72  '73  '74  '75  '76
z
z
SOURCE FOR ACTUAL DATA: International Tea Committee, London                                        18RD-3741  x
CD






SECOND KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
AN ASSESSMEhT OF NET BENEFITS TO A FARMER PLANTING ONE ACRE IN KIAMBU, MURANG'A
NYERI OR MPRU DISTRICTS IN 196b/69. USING VP MATERIAL
(Kenya Shillings)
1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
Onwards
A. CASH COSTS
4 Nursery Units-/ 2                        304         -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -
Development/Charge-                        100         -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -
Fert ier'                                   70         -         -         -         -          90        90        90        90         90        90         90        90
Cess4p/ S                                   -                             145       327        445       616       641      673         658       658        611       470
Total Cash costs:      474        -          -        145       327       535        706       731      763         748       748        701       560
B. LABOR COSTSY'
Pre-Planting ar  Planting   -/             350                   -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -               -         -
Weeding, Mulching af Shading7/              13        56        56         38         25        25        25        25        25         25         25        25        25
Pruning % rX egging                         -        32         32         -         -          47       447         7        47         47        47         47        47
Pluckin' 2/                                                                68       154       222        308       342      359         376       376        376       376
Total Labor Costs:     363       88         88        106       179       294        380       414      431         448       448        448       448
C. TOTAL COSTS (A+B)                           837        88        88        251       506        829     1,086     1,145    1,194       1,196     1,196      1,149     1,008
D. GROSS INCOME 5/ 10/                          -          -         -        299       674        973     1,308     1,411    1,481       1,552     1,552      1,552     1,552
E. NET INCOME ( USING FAMILY LAIBOR)
(D-A)                                     (472)       -          -        152       347        438       602       680       718        804       804        851       992
F   NET INCOME (USING HIRE LiBOR) 24/
(D_C)                                     (837)      (88)      (88)        48       168       144        222       266      287         356       356        403       544
1/ Bought from KTDA at K Sh 76.00 each; includes polythene sheeting, polythene sleeves, nails,fertilizer and unrooted cuttings from proven clones.
2/  Paid to KTITA at K Sh 100.00 per acre; see para. 4.12.
3/ For application in the planting hole in 1968/69 and to mature bushes from 1973/74 onwards.
r/ Paid to KTDA at a rate declining from 17 cents per lb of green leaf in 1971/72 to 10 cents in 1980/81 (see para. 4.22).
5/ After deducting a 5 per cent contingency to take account of possible drought (see para. 3.02); otherwise yields as per Annex 8.
'/  Usually provided at no financial cost by fanners' own family; but sometimes hired laborers are used.
7/ Valued at K Sh 2.50 per day, the going rate for hired laborers.
9/  Includes erection of nursery unit, setting out of unrooted cuttings, preparation of land for planting and planting out of rooted cuttings.
7/ Valued at K Sh 0.08 per lb of green leaf plucked, the going rate for hired laborers.
lD/ Assumes gross payments as per para. 4.21.                                                                                                                                        0
11/ This line also represents the income that would be received by the family (using family labor) over and above the income they could have
earned by working the same number of days -n an estate.






SECOND KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY PROJECT
PROPOSED INVESTMENT IN NEW PLANTINGS
ECONOMIC RETURN CALCULATION
(In thousands of Kenya Shillings)
- ----    ----    ---COSTS/ - - -                                                                  TOTAL COSTS- -NET BENEFITS- - - - - -
2/       On-Farm 3/     On-Fa             5      Factories-/     Factorie6/         Assuming On-Farm Labor Valued At        Gross7/       Assuming On-Farm Labor Valued At
Year           KTDA-      Cash Costs-       Labor-      Roads-       (Capital)       (Operating)       Zero     100% of current wage rate      Benefits      Zero     100% of current wage rate
1968/69         6,684          830           1,888         _             _               _              7,514              9,402                  -          (7,514)             (9,402)
1969/70         3,424        1,556           2,915       L,0oo           -               _              8,980             11,895                  -          (8,980)            (11,895)
1970/71         4,250        1,654           3,6L1       h,060         h,800             _            1L,764              18,405                  -         (14,760)            (18,405)
1971/72         5,408        1,772           4,604         120         4,800           1,360           13,460             18,06b                3,910        (9,550)            (14,154)
1972/73         6,962        1,890           6,034         120         9,600           4,260           22,832             28,866               12,0o6       (10,826)            (16,860)
1973/74         6,906          654          5,111          120       11,1400           8,1460          30,5L0             35,651               23,132        (7,408)            (12,519)
19714/75        8,620        1,126           7,006         120       19,200           14,460           43,526             50,532               38,299        (5,227)            (12,233)
1975/76        10,598        1,756           9,405         120        14,400          20,860           47,734             57,139               56,315         8,581                (824)
1976/77        11,244        2,430          11,848         120       14,4oo           25,540           53,734             65,582               72,781        19,047               7,199
1977/78        12,792        3,150          13,862         120         4,800          28,200           49,062             62,924               85,068        36,006              22,144
1978/79        13,288        3,150          15,043         120         4,800          29,300           50,658             65,701               93,917        43,259              28,216
1979/80        13,892        3,150          15,622         120         4,800          30,660           52,622             68,244               98,264        45,642              30,020
1980/81        13,968        3,150          15,944         120           -            31,400           48,638             64,582              100,676        52,038              36,o94
1981/82        14,258        3,150          16,080         120           -   A/       31,720           49,248             65,328              101,702        52,454              36,374
and there-
after until
2018/19.
Internal Rate of Return           25 percent          16 percent
1/  Before interest and depreciation, including contingencies,
7/  Plantirg material, field supervision, leaf collection, KTDA Head Office and Training Farm.
'/   Fertilizer and nursery unit materials.
t/   On-farm labor valued at 100 percent of current wage rate of K Sh 2.50 per day.
'/ 200 miles of new roads at K Sh 40,000 per mile; maintenance at K Sh 600 per mile.
'/   A tentative allocation of factory costs attributable to leaf produced from new plantings under the project.  It has been assumed that there will be a factory built every
time there are 2.0 million lb of made tea to be processed from green leaf, at a cost of K Sh 4.8 million per factory.
7/   Value of production FOB Mombasa, at prices predicted in para. 5.03 of the main report; after deducting 5 percent to allow for drought (see para. 3.02).
A/  The stream of factory investment costs is repeated over the years 1992/93 through 2001/02 to allow for factory replacement.






KENYA
SMALLHOLDER TEA GROWING AREAS
MtElgon. +   (
ELGEYO-
44 1RA A      ,  , --M A9A KW E TX
>    { L D   O    R E~~~LORT                                             )
MEGA':..    t.'  :.'  '. 
>   / Js                        4ttE       \9AI~~~~~~~NAROBI
.N~~~~~~~hms /   F s                    
v~~~~~~~~~~~al N-i u                                                        ti
-.: KTDA Tea Areas.
..:Settlement Tea Areas. \
)      Existing KTDA Factories.
-Roods.                                               \      
-t--4--tI--*i  Railways                                      Kii        ii        ~      ~  ,
jO   40  80     120M ILES            aKENYA   (             F{f#atl/R AGA
Area)8> M ombe sa 
DECEMBER 1967                                                                                   SRRD-2183R



