I
4111k
CREDIT NUMBER 119 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Kenya Tea Development Authority Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 17, 1968


﻿AIL
CREDIT NUMBER 119 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Kenya Tea Development Authority Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 17, 1968


﻿I
Drurdopment Trebit Agrutut
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1968, between the RE-
PUBLIC or KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION  (hereinafter
called the Association).
ATHEREAS (A) the Kenya Tea Development Authority
(hereinafter called KTDA), a statutory body established
by the Agriculture (Keniy Tea Development Authority)
Order of the BorrowN er, is executing a project for the fur-
ther development of tea production by African small-
holders;
(B) KTDA plans to obtain a loan for the field sector of
this project in an amount of up to 450,000 pounds sterling
from the Commonwealth Development Corporation (here-
inafter called CDC), a corporation established under the
Overseas Resources Act, 1948 of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland;
(C) CDC intends, provided certain conditions are ful-
filled, to contribute towards the financing of the tea fac-
tories forming a part of this project;
(D) The Government of the Borrower and KTDA have
entered into aa agreement dated May 23, 1968, providing,
inter ali, for the supplying by the Government of the
Borrower of the field staff required for the proper carry-
ing out of this pvoject and the necessary housing for such
staff;
(E) The Borrower and KTDA have requested the Asso-
ciation to assist in the financing of the field sector of this
project;
(F) The Association has made a credit available to tho
Borrower for purposes of KTDA in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to $2,800,000 pursuant to a develop-


﻿4
ment credit agreement between the Borrower and the
Association dated August 17, 1964 (hereinafter called the
1964 Credit Agreement); and
(G) The Association is willing to make a further develop-
ment credit available on the terms and conditions provided
herein and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and KTDA;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of
the Association dated June 1, 1961, as amended February 9,
1967, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein subject, however, to the following modifi-
cations thereof (the said Development Credit Regulations
No. 1 as so modified being hereinafter called the Regula-
tions) :
(a) Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
the Project Agreement" after the words "the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement."
(b) The following subparagraph is added to Section 9.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the
meaning set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment."
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and KTDA of even date herewith, provid-


﻿5
ing for the carrying out of the Project, as the same shall
be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Association and KTDA.
(b) "Supervision Agreement" means the agreement be-
tween the Government of the Borrower and KTDA referred
to in Recital (D) of this Agreement, as the same shall be
amenled from time to time with the approval of the
Association.
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in Section 4.02(a) of this Agreement to be
entered into between the Government of the Borrower and
KTDA, as the same shall be amended from time to time
with the approval of the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a de-
velopment credit in an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to two million    one hundred   thousand   dollars
($2,100,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count in the name of tho Borrower and shall credit to such
Credit Account the aiount of the Credit. The amount of the
Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account as pro-
vided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and sus-
pension set forth in, this Development Credit Agreement.
SECTIoN 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of this Development Credit Agreement, to with-
draw from the Credit Account (i) such amounts as shall


﻿I
6
have been paid, or, if the Association shall so agree, as
shall be required to meet payments to be made, for the
reasonable c.i.f. cost of imported vehicles required to carry
out the field sector of the Project; and (ii) amounts equiv-
alent to such amounts as shall have been otherwise ex-
pended on the field sector of the Project;
(b) no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be
made until the development credit provided for in the 1964
Credit Agreement is fully withdrawn;
(c) such withdrawals from the Credit Account shall not
exceed in the aggregate that portion of the excess of
KTDA's payments in respect of the field sector of its
operations over its receipts in respect of such sector after
June 30, 1968 which is not financed under the 1964 Credit
Agreement or by CDC pursuant to the loan referred to in
Recital (B) to this Agreement;
(d) no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be
made unless the Borrower shall certify in respect of each
withdrawal that KTDA has withdrawn an aggregate
amount from CDC under the loan referred to in Recital
(B) to this Agreement equal to or greater than 50o of
the equivalent of the total of (i) the amount previously
withdrawn from the Credit Account and (ii) the amount
covered by the withdrawal application; and
(e) no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be
made on account of expenditures prior to July 1, 1968.
SECTION 2.04. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 3.02 of the Regulations.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿7
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be paid     semi-
annuall, on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in seni-annual installments payable on each June 1 and
December 1 commencing June 1, 1978 and ending December
1, 2017, each installment to and including the installment
payable on December 1, 1987, to be one-half of one per
cent (J/s of 1/ ) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1 %)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds
of the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost
of the goods required to carry out the field sector of the
Project. The specific allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
and the methods and procedures for procurement of the
goods to be financed out of such proceeds, shall be deter-
mined by agreement between the Association and the Bor-
rower, subject to modification by further agreement be-
tween them.
SECTIOX 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used in the territories of
the Borrower exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound agricultural, engineering and finan-
cial standards and practices.


﻿8
(b) The Borrower shall take all action which shall be
necessary on its part to enable KTDA to perform all its
obligations under the Project Agreement and shall not take
any action that would interfere with the performance of
such obligations by KTDA.
(c) The Borrower shall cause KTDA to have qualified
and experienced management.
(d) The Borrower shall consult the Association about
any proposed appointment of the Chairman of KTDA and
other members of KTDA whose appointment is at the dis-
cretion of the Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower
sufficiently in advance of such appointment for the Asso-
ciation to have adequate opportunity to comment on it.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall lend to KTDA
the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association pursuant to a
loan agreement satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not amend, assign, abrogate or waive any pro-
vision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to be
made available to KTDA, promptly as needed, all funds
and other resources which shall be required for the carry-
ing out of the Project and in particular shall cause to be
provided or provide processing facilities for tea and the
necessary funds therefor as and when required.
(d) The Borrower shall perform all its obligations under
the Supervision Agreement and, except with the approval
of the Association, shall not amend or abrogate the Super-
vision Agreement.


﻿9
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall in-
elude information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the in-
ternational balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.05. This Agreement and the Project Agree-
ment shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall cons ruct, as required,
and shall maintain all roads necessary to enable KTDA


﻿10
to collect leaf from growers producing tea under the Project
and to deliver such leaf to the factories which are to process
it. Such roads shall be constructed and maintained to stand-
ards adequate to permit the efficient collection and delivery
of such leaf by four-wheel drive vehicles in all but very
wet conditions.
SmcTio. 4.07. Excep  as the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
KTDA to collect levies on green leaf delivered for process-
ir- inder the Project on the basis existing at the date
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SiE-roN 3.01. (i) If any event specified iii paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or
(ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower, then at any subsequent time during
the continuance thereof the Association, at its option, may
declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be
due and payable immediately, and upon any such declara-
tion such pi-incipal shall become due and payable immedi-
ately, anything in this Development Credit Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02 of the
Regulations, the following additional events are specified:
(a) KTDA shall have failed to perform any covenant
or agreement of KTDA under the Project Agreement.


﻿11
(b) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Borrower or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action
for the dissolution or disestablishment of KTDA or for the
suspension of its operations.
(c) A default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower
under the 1964 Credit Agreement or on the part of KTDA
under the project agreement dated August 17, 1964 between
the Association and KTDA.
(d) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Agriculture (Kenya Tea
Development Authority) Order of the Borrower shall have
been materially amended without the agreenient of the
Association.
ARTICLE VI
Modification of 1964 Credit Agreement
SECTION 6.01. For the purposes of the 1964 Credit
Agreement:
(a) Subsection (a) of Section 2.03 of the 1964 Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
" (a) the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, to
withdraw from the Credit Account in such convertible
currencies as the Association shall reasonably select,
(i) amounts equivalent to such amounts as shall have
been expended on tile field sector of the Project prior
to July 1, 1968 and (ii) amounts equivalent to such
amounts as shall have been expended on the field sector
of the project described in the schedule to the develop-
ment credit agreement (Second Kenya Tea Develop-
ment Authority Project) dated June 17, 1968 between
the Republic of Kenya and the Association, on and
after July 1, 1968;"


﻿12
(b) Subsection (b) of Section 2.03 of the 1964 Credit
Agreement is amended by the addition of the words "under
the loans referred to in Recitals (B) and (C) of this Agree-
ment" after the word "CDC."
(c) Section 3.01 of the 1964 Credit Agreement is amended
by adding the words "or of the project described in the
schedule to the development credit agreement (Second
Kenya Tea Development Authority Project) dated June
17, 1968 between    the Republic of Kenya     and  the
Association."
(d) Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of the Asso-
ciation dated June 1, 1961, as amended in the 1964 Credit
Agreement, are further amended by the modification of
paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of said Credit Regulations
to read as follows:
(b) A default shall have occurred in the perform-
ance of any other covenant or agreement on the part
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, or under the development credit agreement
(Second Kenya Tea Development Authority Project)
dated June 17, 1968 between the Borrower and the
Association."
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01(b) of the Regulations:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of KTDA have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
executed in form satisfactory to the Association and has
become fully effective and binding on the parties thereto in


﻿13
accordance with its terms subject only to the effectiveness of
this Agreement; and
(c) the Government of the Borrower, KTDA and CDC
have entered into the agreement in connection with the loan
referred to in Recital (B) hereof (which agreement may be
combined with the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and such
agreement has become fully effective and binding on the
parties thereto in accordance with its terms subject only
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
SECTIOx 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 8.02(b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
KTDA and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of
KTDA in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the agreements referred to in paragraphs (b)
and (c) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the parties thereto and constitute valid and bind-
ing obligations of the parties thereto in accordance with
their terms.
SECTION 7.03. The date of September 1, 1968 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the Regulations.
SECTION 7.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower with respect to the Project, KTDA and tea pro-
duced or processed under the Project shall forthwith
terminate.


﻿14
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 8.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1973, or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Alternative address for cables:
Fiinance
Nairobi
For the Association:
Initeriiational Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Iidevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 8.03. The Minister of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for finance is designated for the purposes
of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed


﻿15
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KFNYA
By /s/ L. P. ODERO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project is a part of the smallholder tea development
program of the Borrower and KTDA. The Project consists
of a field sector and a factory sector.
The field sector of the Project covers approximately
27,000 acres of tea planted prior to June 30, 1968 and ap-
proximately 35,000 acres to be planted thereafter, and in-
cludes:
(a) the supply and distribution to smallholders of plant-
ing material in the form of tea stumps grown from
seed, or in the form of rooted or unrooted cuttings
from proven clones;
(b) the supply and distribution to smallholders of mate-
rials and fertilizers for the construction and opera-
tion of on-farm vegetative propagation units;
(c) the supervision of smallholder tea cultivation in the
field as provided in the Supervision Agreement and
the training of smallholders for such cultivation; and
(d) the collection, inspection and transportation to fac-
tories of green leaf.
The planting program for the additional 33,000 acres is
as follows: 5,900 acres in the financial year ending June 30,
1969; 6,600 acres in the financial year ending June 30, 1970;
7,000 aeres in the financial year ending June 30, 1971; 7,500
acres in the financial year ending June 30, 1972; and 8,000
acres in the financial year ending June 30, 1973.
The factory sector of the Project includes the extension
and operation of existing factories and/or the construction
and operation of new factories, as needed for the process-
ing of green leaf expected to be produced from the 33,000
acres of additional planting under the field sector of the
Project.


