Report No. PID6893
Project Name                     Korea-Structural Adjustment Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Project ID                       KRPE56521
Borrower                         Republic of Korea
Implementing Agency              World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Date PID Prepared                September 28, 1998
Board Date                       October 1998
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
The Korean economy has exhibited a strong performance for more than three
decades. Since the mid-1960s, the country's gross domestic product (GDP) has
grown at an average of 8.2 percent annually. Between 1991 and 1995, the
economy expanded at about 7.5 percent per annum, unemployment was maintained
at less than 2.5 percent, and the current account deficits were in the 1 to 2
percent of GDP range. Throughout this period, the government budget was in
surplus in all but two years and inflation remained in the single digit range.
However, this favorable performance masked weaknesses. Although
government intervention enabled Korea to grow rapidly and become an advanced
industrial economy, it also preserved a protected and inefficient financial
sector as well as a highly leveraged and concentrated corporate sector.
Beginning in the early 1990s, Korea's export performance also came under
intense competition in the labor intensive sectors. Korea responded by
relocating production to ASEAN countries and China and by investing in
technology-intensive sectors. Thus, in recent years, Korea has invested
heavily in a narrow spectrum of "strategic" export industries, such as
automobiles and electronics, making it vulnerable to demand and price changes
in a few industries. In 1996, a severe cyclical downturn hit the electronics
sector, and this, combined with the slowdown in other export lines,dealt a
significant terms of trade blow to Korea's economy. As a result, the current
account deficit more than doubled to 5 percent of GDP.
With the eruption of the financial crisis in Thailand, attention focused
on some of the underlying weaknesses of the East Asian economies, and in
October 1997 Korea also became the victim of regional contagion. It lost
market confidence and was no longer able to attract sufficient amounts of new
credits and roll over its existing obligations. On November 19, 1997, the
Government formally approached the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for
assistance.
Since late 1997 Korea has made considerable progress in stabilizing its
external financial position.   However, the downturn in the domestic economy
has been severe.   The central challenge for the authorities is to mitigate the
severity of the recession and facilitate an economic recovery while
consolidating the progress in restoring external financial stability.
2.      Objectives



The program supported by SAL II aims to deepen reforms in the priority
areas of financial sector restructuring, corporate sector restructuring, and
strengthening of social safety nets. Its goal is to assist Korea in the
restoration of financial stability while mitigating the social impact of the
crisis and support structural reforms that address the root causes of the
crisis and lay the basis for Korea's return to strong and sustainable growth.
3.      Description
The second structural adjustment loan (SAL II) is part of a series of
World Bank adjustment loans in support of the major structural reform program
that the Government of Korea has launched in response to the economic crisis.
It builds upon the work initiated under the Economic Reconstruction Loan
approved December 23, 1997 for $3 billion and continued under a Structural
Adjustment Loan I approved March 25, 1998 for $2 billion. The loan is part of
the international financing package for Korea agreed in December 1997. The
Bank undertook to provide up to $10 billion in support of Korea's structural
reforms as part of that package.
SAL II calls for macroeconomic policies designed to mitigate the severity
of the recession while consolidating the progress made in strengthening the
external financial position, within the framework of the macroeconomic program
agreed with the IMF. The structural reform program it supports covers three
key areas: (1) financial sector reform, including the resolution of weak
financial institutions, strengthening of prudential regulation and
supervision, and capital market development; (2) corporate sector reform,
including corporate debt restructuring, reform of corporate governance and
competition policies, and reform and privatization of state-owned
corporations; and (3) labor market reform and strengthening of social safety
nets.
4.      Financing
SAL II is a two-tranche, fast-disbursing operation in the amount of $2
billion. It is a single currency loan in US dollars for 15 years including 5
years of grace, at an interest rate of 6-month LIBOR (reset semiannually) plus
0.75 percent, with a service charge of 1.5 percent of the loan amount, payable
on effectiveness.
5.      Implementation
Korea has a strong track record in the implementation of its undertakings
with the Bank. Implementation of the ongoing portfolio of ten investment
projects is consistently rated as either satisfactory or highly satisfactory.
Commitment to implementation is also reflected in the progress made so far
under the recent adjustment loans.
SAL II contains strong prior actions in all the key areas of reform, in
the form of conditions for Board presentation and second tranche release. As
in the case of recent adjustment loans, the Letter of Development Policy will
include clear undertakings by the Government to provide the Bank relevant and
timely information on all areas covered by the program to facilitate
monitoring of progress. Implementation will be monitored through regular
reviews which will be facilitated by the location of the Bank's Korea Country
Unit in the field.
Implementation will be supported by provision of technical assistance in
the design and execution of envisaged reform, most importantly through the
recently approved Financial and Corporate Restructuring Technical Assistance
Project approved August 6, 1998. Additionally, dialogue on follow-up Bank
operations will provide the occasion to assess implementation and outcomes.
-2 -



6.      Sustainability
Korea over the past 30 years has built a fundamentally strong economy
with enormous physical capital resources, human resources and technological
capacity. If new reforms can improve the basis for allocating capital and
labor and open markets to new competition, the country has the potential to
rebound quickly.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Korea has a strong track record in the implementation of its activities
with the Bank.
8.      Poverty Category
N.A.
9.      Environmental Aspects
N.A.
10.     Program Objective Categories
Structural reform.
ll.Contact Point:                 The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 2, 1998.
- 3 -



