Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 16823
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2330-TAN)
June 30, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy 1
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =     Tanzanian Shilling (TSH)
US$1.0     =      230 TSH as of July 1991
US$.004     =      I TSH
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
TANESCO:   January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)    =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 millimeter (mm)    =     0.039 inch (in)
1 kilometer (Km)    =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kmi)         0.386 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      =      African Development Bank
DCA      =      Development Credit Agreement
EIA      =     Environmental Impact Assessment
ESBI     =      Electricity Supply Board of Ireland
GOT      =      Government of Tanzania
ICR      =     Implementation Completion Report
ICS            Interconnected system
IDA      =     International Development Agency
SAR      =      Staff Appraisal Report
TANESCO        =     Tanzania Electric Supply Company Ltd.
UNDP       =     United Nations Development Program
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: James Adams
Technical Manager: Jeffrey Racki
ICR prepared By: Alfred Gulstone



TANZANIA                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2330-TAN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ...............................................i
Project Objectives ...............................................i
Project Results and Implementation Experience.                                  ii
Project Outcome, Sustainability and Future Operation.                           ii
Key Lessons Leared.                                                            iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction .1
B. Statement and Achievement of Project Objectives .
C. Project Implementation Experience                    .3
D. IDA Performance                              .5
E. Borrower Performance                            .6
F. Project Outcome, Sustainability and Future Operation         .6
G. Major Lessons Learned                           .7
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND ANNEXES
Tables:
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation - Not applicable
Table 7:      Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits - Not applicable
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 1 1:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements - Not applicable
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
Appendix A: Proposed Operational Plan
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2330-TAN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report for the Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project for which IDA approved a credit in the amount of SDR 7.5
million equivalent (US$ 10 million) on January 14, 1992. The Credit became effective
on June 12, 1992.
The Credit closed on June 30, 1996, a year later than planned and was fully
disbursed. The final disbursement on the Credit took place on October 11, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Alfred Gulstone, Principal Power Engineer, and was
reviewed by Fauzia Najm, under the supervision of Jeffrey Racki, Technical Manager,
AFTU1. The Borrower had no comments on the ICR and did not provide its own
completion report.
The contents of this report are based on material in the project file.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit 2330-TA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    IDA's country assistance strategy for Tanzania, at the time of project appraisal
(199 1), was to help the Government of Tanzania (GOT) implement its power sector
objectives by financing investment and technical assistance projects designed to help
Tanzania obviate sector constraints. GOT's policy objectives for the electric power sector,
at the time of project preparation were to ensure (a) the ability of the country to meet power
demand at least cost; (b) the pricing of electricity at full economic and financial cost; and
(c) the maintenance of the sector's financial viability. However, growth in power demand,
low tariffs, and ineffective systems for billing, collection and accounting threatened the
country's ability to meet these objectives. Prior to the project, IDA had financed two
investment projects for hydropower development in Tanzania. The main lesson from these
projects was the importance of preparing the detailed design and receiving bids before
finalizing the financing plan and starting construction, to minimize the risk of delays. The
project took account of this lesson in preparing its engineering component and its design
reflected lessons from IDA's experience with similar projects in Africa and other regions,
which had indicated that technical assistance projects were successful when the
components were discrete and well-defined.
Project Objectives
2.    The project had two major objectives: (a) assisting TANESCO in completing the
design work for the least-cost hydroelectric generation project at Lower Kihansi; and (b)
upgrading the accounting and financial capabilities of TANESCO. The objectives were
clear and operationally focused to support the broader sector objectives of meeting the
country's power needs at least cost and improving TANESCO's financial performance.
They were important for advancing Tanzania's least cost power development program and
promoting TANESCO's commercial orientation and financial viability. The achievement of
project objectives was realistic as long as TANESCO made effective use of the consultant
expertise which the project provided.



- ii-
Project Results and Implementation Experience
3.    The project substantially achieved its objectives. It advanced the least cost power
development program by designing the facilities which are now under construction with
funds from Credit 2489-TA. The project completed this design work according to the
original project schedule. It also improved the financial viability of the power sector by
upgrading TANESCO's billing and accounting systems. This upgrading began under the
project and is continuing under Credit 2489-TA. The system improvements have increased
TANESCO's average daily revenue collection significantly and should make it possible for
the company to complete its annual audits on schedule. The project completed the
construction of the training center and trained TANESCO's staff in the operation of
computerized accounting and billing systems.
4.    The Bank declared the credit for the project effective in June 1992, about six months
later than originally planned, due to a delay in negotiations and Board presentation . The
project completed the detailed design of the Lower Kihansi project and the preparation of
related bid documents on schedule. There was a delay in the completion of new billing and
accounting systems because both IDA and the Borrower had underestimated the amount of
time required to prepare terms of reference for the consultants and complete the manual
review and adjustment of records necessary before installing the computerized systems. To
finish the work, IDA extended the project's closing date from June 1995 to June 1996.
Actual project costs amounted to US$12.2 million compared to US$ 11.6 million estimated
at appraisal. IDA disbursed a total of US$ 10.6 million. The difference between estimated
and actual figures is due to the change in the exchange rate between the SDR, the currency
of the Credit and the US dollar. IDA's performance overall was highly satisfactory
because of its innovative approach and flexibility in helping the Borrower to meet the most
pressing needs of the TANESCO system. The Borrower's performance was satisfactory,
showing a sufficient commitment to the project and compliance with most project
covenants except for some delays in audit reporting.
Project Outcome, Sustainability and Future Operation
5.    The project's outcome was satisfactory. The design work for future generation
facilities and the accomplishments in approving the billing system were instrumental in
preparing the Power VI project, which currently is the main vehicle for developing the
power system at least cost and maintaining TANESCO's financial viability. The
sustainability of the project is likely. Power VI Project (Credit 2489-TA) is constructing the
facilities for the Lower Kihansi Hydroelectric scheme based on the design work under
2330-TA. The new computerized accounting system is in place and TANESCO should be
able to maintain adequate cost accounting and timely audit reporting with norrnal updating
of data and equipment maintenance. To ensure maintenance of the integrity of the billing
system IDA's recommended specialist assistance to supervise the development of the billing
system for an additional 12-18 months following the departure of the original consultants.
TANESCO has hired consultants from the Electricity Supply Board of Ireland (ESB) to
provide this oversight. Furthermore, the Bank has recommended that TANESCO take



- iii -
specific actions to ensure timely procurement of equipment; full integration of pre-payment
metering into the company's operations; improved policies and procedures; monitoring of
service standards; provision of adequate maintenance; and the development of long-range
planning. TANESCO has followed IDA's recommendation and hired the consultants.
Key Lessons Learned
(a)   A technical assistance project to advance project design preparation can be
extremely useful to the implementation of the least-cost power development
plan and can be particularly important in a severely supply constrained
power system as in Tanzania.
(b)   A pre-payment metering system can be a very effective way to both improve
power company finances and encourage customers to conserve electricity .
However, any power company introducing such a system needs to make
sure that its technical configuration can accurately reflect the tariff structure.
(c)   TANESCO should manage its consultants closely to ensure the efficient use
of time; minimize the need for contract extensions; and detect errors in
operations. One way to achieve this is to request more frequent reports and
reviews and use lump sum contracts to encourage adherence to schedule.
(d)   A technical assistance project can be useful to continuing the dialogue
between the Bank and the Borrower on important sector issues while a large
investment project is under preparation.
(e)   Data clean-up and consolidation for billing and accounting systems which
have many manual transactions and staff that lack experience in modem
financial control systems can be very time consuming and the
implementation schedule to should allow at least two years instead of one
year between the award of the contract and the installation of the new
system.






TANZANIA
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2330-TAN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Governnent's policy objectives for the electric power sector, at the time of
project preparation (1991), were to ensure (a) the ability of the country to meet power
demand at least cost; (b) the pricing of electricity at full economic and financial cost; and
(c) the maintenance of the sector's financial viability. However, growth in power demand,
low tariffs, and ineffective systems for billing, collection and accounting threatened the
country's ability to meet these objectives. IDA's country assistance strategy was to support
the Government of Tanzania (GOT) in implementing its power sector objectives by
financing investment and technical assistance projects designed to help Tanzania obviate
sector constraints.
2.    The Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project was the first of its kind in
Tanzania. About 70 percent of the project's funds were for the engineering design work
necessary to construct the Lower Kihansi Hydroelectric Project, a component of the Power
VI Project (Credit 2489-TA) Project which IDA was planning to support. Sector
development studies had indicated that this project was the least-cost solution for Tanzania's
power system expansion to meet demand, beginning in the late 1990s.
3.    The design of the project took account of lessons learned from IDA's experience
with similar projects in Africa and other regions. This experience had indicated such
techimcal assistance projects were successful when the components were discrete and well-
defined. In addition, the Bank had financed two investment projects for hydropower
development in Tanzania: one at Kidatu (LN 1306-T-TA) and another at Mtera (Cr. 1405-
TA). The main lesson from these projects was the importance of preparing the detailed
design and receiving bids before finalizing the financing plan and starting construction, to
minimize the risk of delays.
4.    The President's Report for Credit 2330-TA did not indicate any specific lessons
from IDA-wide experience concerning improvements in billing and accounting systems.
However, the problems were clear and IDA had successful experience in reorganizing and
updating computerized billing and accounting systems in other countries.
B.  STATEMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The project had two major objectives: (a) assisting Tanzania Electric Supply



Company Limited (TANESCO) in completing the design work for the least-cost
hydroelectric generation project at Lower Kihansi; and (b) upgrading the accounting and
financial capabilities of TANESCO. The objectives were clear and operationally focused to
support the broader sector objectives of meeting the country's power needs at least cost and
improving TANESCO's financial performance. They were important for advancing
Tanzania's least cost power development program and promoting TANESCO's commercial
orientation and financial viability. The achievement of project objectives was realistic as
long as TANESCO made effective use of the consultant expertise which the project
provided.
6.    IDA's participation in the project was crucial for several reasons. First, GOT and
TANESCO had requested that IDA finance the final preparation activities for the Lower
Kihansi Hydroelectric Project. Although IDA and the governments of Italy, Norway,
Sweden and the Federal Republic of Germany all had been principal financiers/donors in
the power sector, only IDA had expressed an interest in financing the preparatory work.
Second, IDA's participation in the preparatory engineering work was important to attract
co-financing for the Lower Kihansi Project. Third, IDA's involvement in the project was
important to ensure the efficient implementation of major power sector policies, especially
the level and structure of tariffs. The project included a covenant for substantial increases
in the average tariff. These increases were necessary because the low level of TANESCO's
tariffs threatened the company's ability to generate the revenues necessary for investment
in system expansion even with improved systems of billing and accounting. The project
also took place during the same time as important tariff and sector organization studies.
7.    The project was not too demanding for TANESCO, the implementing agency. It
included sufficient technical assistance to make project irnplementation of components
well within TANESCO's capability. The design of facilities for the Lower Kihansi Project
was straightforward and the project's preparatory work anticipated no major problems. The
re-design of the financial control systems was a major task because both the billing and
accounting systems were in poor condition, due to substantial arrears, the lack of a reliable
customer data base, and overdue audit reports. Neither operational procedures nor computer
systems provided TANESCO with the capability to exercise the financial control necessary
for a commercially viable utility. Furthermore, in designing the billing system, the project
promoted, where economically viable, a relatively new type of technology -- prepayment
metering. The application of this technology required not only a change in equipment but a
complete reorientation of the billing system with increased emphasis on improved revenue
collection and customer service.
8.    The project's design was not very complex. It consisted of four clearly-defined,
discrete components: the detailed design for the Lower Kihansi Hydroelectric Project,
including site investigations and the preparation of bid documents; the installation of new
billing and accounting procedures along with the procurement of related computer hardware
and software, equipment and vehicles; the construction of a training center; and the training
of TANESCO staff in the use of computers in their operations and in accounting
procedures. The principal risks to the achievement of the project's objectives were possible



- 3 -
delays due to slower than expected procurement of project consultants and the lack of
sufficient institution-building resulting from the inadequate provision of local counterpart
staff to work with expatriate consultants. However, the project's preparation took steps to
minimize this risk by selecting the consultants for the design work prior to project approval.
9.    The project substantially achieved its objectives. It advanced the least cost power
development program by designing the facilities which are now under construction with
funds from Credit 2489-TA. The project completed this design work according to the
original project schedule. The project also improved the financial viability of the power
sector by upgrading TANESCO's billing and accounting systems. This upgrading began
under the project and is continuing under Credit 2489-TA. The system improvements have
increased TANESCO's average daily revenue collection significantly and should make it
possible for the company to complete its annual audits on schedule. However, since the
completion of the project, long term financial viability has been threatened by poor payment
performance of Government Agencies. The project completed the construction of the
training center and trained TANESCO's staff in the operation of computerized accounting
and billing systems.
C.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Implementation Record
10.   The Bank declared the credit for the project effective in June 1992, about six months
later than originally planned, due to a delay in negotiations and Board presentation. The
project completed the detailed design of the Lower Kihansi project and the preparation of
related bid documents on schedule. The project also completed the construction of the
training facility. There was a delay in the completion of new billing and accounting
systems because both IDA and the Borrower had underestimated the amount of time
required to prepare terms of reference for the consultants and complete the manual review
and adjustment of records necessary before installing the computerized systems. To finish
the work, IDA extended the project's closing date from June 1995 to June 1996. Actual
project costs amounted to US$12.2 million compared to US$ 11.6 million estimated at
appraisal. IDA disbursed a total of US$ 10.6 million. The difference between estimated
and actual figures is due to the change in the exchange rate between the SDR, the currency
of the project credit and the US dollar, the currency used in the description of project costs
as they appeared in the President's Report.
11.   There were several changes in project's components during the implementation
process. After beginning the review and clean-up of manual data records, TANESCO and
the IDA recognized the task was much larger than they originally had anticipated.
Therefore, they decided to have some of the consultant experts for the accounting
component begin their work earlier than planned. However, even with the early deployment
of additional consultants, there was a delay because of the magnitude of the task.
Furthermore, the use of additional consultants in the initial clean-up activity led to the
requirement for additional funds for consultant supervision of the initial operational phase



- 4-
of the accounting system. IDA and the Borrower therefore decided to continue the work
under the Power VI Project, (Credit 2489-TA).
12.   Another change in the project was the decision to make pre-payment metering the
basis of the new billing system, where economically viable. This technology consists of
installing an electricity meter based on a card-vending system that requires the customer to
pay for electricity use in advance. The customer purchases a card which encodes the
corresponding amount of electricity based on the customer's tariff category and rate. IDA
and TANESCO saw it as a powerful tool both for minimizing TANESCO's collections
problem and encouraging consumers to conserve electricity in a supply-constrained system.
Initially, during the project's implementation, IDA and TANESCO planned to introduce
prepayment metering on a pilot basis only. However, they made the decision to expand the
system as a result of the impressive performance in improving the company's cash flow -- a
tripling in the average daily revenues. The system also helped to reduce problems of high
arrears in revenue collection.
13.   The project also responded well to a technical problem that arose with the operation
of the prepayment metering system. TANESCO purchased prepayment metering systems
from a major vendor but was not aware that the configuration of the system was suited more
to a flat tariff structure than TANESCO's steep, inverted-block tariff. This block structure
causes the customer's cost per kWh to vary during the month depending on the amount of
electricity use; i.e. it increases the cost per kWh after specified level of use. At the
beginning of the prepayment metering program's operation (October 1995), IDA and
TANESCO discovered that the system was overcharging customers who bought more than
a one-month supply of electricity by moving them into a higher tariff step than their normal
usage warranted. The system had no provision to adjust such overpayment at the time of
subsequent purchases. By April 1996, it became evident that the system's adjustment
problem was serious and required correction. The Bank then advised TANESCO to resolve
the problem promptly to avoid a deterioration in customer relations.
14.   After considering various options for correcting the prepayment metering system,
the Bank and TANESCO agreed that the most efficient option was to install a corrective
software program. This program uses a rolling average of electricity use for each customer.
The average is based on the previous year's usage. The program recalculates and updates
the average at the end of each month. If the purchase of power by existing customers
exceeds the monthly average which the system has recorded, the billing software allocates
the excess kWh forward into one or more future months, to avoid moving the customer into
a higher tariff category. At the same time, the system restricts the purchase of more than the
cost of 12 months' average usage in advance, alerting the utility to a sudden, large, upward
change in load to protect the utility from undercharging the customer. For new consumers,
where there is no previous history of electricity consumption, TANESCO uses an average
that results from a survey of household electrical appliance usage. Reportedly there are
very few complaints about the system.



-5-
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
15.   Factors not Subject to Borrower or Implementing Agency Control. The main
factor not subject to the government's control in project implementation was the
performance of project's consultants. Overall performance was satisfactory; however, the
consultants in charge of billing system improvements did not give sufficient attention to the
supervision of the contractor for the pre-payment metering system and the problems with
the system's configuration.
16.   Factors Subject to Borrower Control. GOT had control over increases in tariffs,
reductions in Government arrears to TANESCO, and the requirement that TANESCO use
the government's audit corporation for the completion of its annual audits. The govermment
increased tariffs in fulfillment of the related project covenants (Table 10), and reduced
Government arrears to an acceptable level. Unfortunately, after the completion of the
project, the Government's performance on paying electricity bills has deteriorated. The
requirement that TANESCO use the government audit corporation contributed to
TANESCO's inability to submit timely audit reports and comply with the related project
covenants.
17.   Factors Subject to Implementing Agency ControL The imnplementing agency,
TANESCO, had control over timely preparation of the information necessary for the audit
reports, the management of the project's consultants, and completion of the project's training
facility which was funded mostly by TANESCO. The poor condition of TANESCO's
financial records and the greater clean-up process required than initially envisaged
contributed to delays in audit reporting. The company could have been more rigorous about
managmg the consultants for the billing and accounting systems in order to reduce project
delays. However, a major constraint to management improvement is the lack of an adequate
incentive structure and the situation should improve with the planned commercialization of
the utility. At present, GOT is preparing for restructuring TANESCO and inviting private
participation.
D.   IDA PERFORMANCE
18.   IDA's performance in project identification, preparation assistance appraisal and
supervision was satisfactory. In particular, IDA's supervision of the project demonstrated
both innovative thinking and flexibility in working with the Borrower to meet the most
pressing needs in the TANESCO system. The supervision team also helped draw the
Borrower's attention to deficiencies in the configuration of the pre-payment metering
system and suggested that TANESCO take immediate action to prevent overcharging
consumers and maintain good customer relations. The pre-payment metering system
already has had a major impact in improving the company's cash flow. Furthermore, since
the same staff were involved with the supervision of Credit 2330-TA and Credit 2489-TA,
there was a smooth linkage between the two projects in extending the accounting and
billing system improvements.



-6-
E.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
19.   Borrower performance in preparing and implementing the project was satisfactory.
The Borrower (GOT) showed sufficient commitment to the project and complied with most
project covenants. TANESCO, the implementing agency, also complied with most of the
relevant project covenants except for timely audit reporting. There were delays in the
submission of audit reports due in part to problems in data collection which the project was
addressing in its re-design of the accounting system. Unfortunately the new accounting
system was not completed soon enough to improve audit reporting during the project's
implementation period. Some delays were due to the heavy workload of the government's
audit corporation which the government had designated as TANESCO's auditor. Also, as
noted in para. 17, TANESCO could have made a greater effort to manage the accounting
and billing consultants to reduce project delays.
F.    PROJECT OUTCOME, SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION
20.   The project's outcome was satisfactory. The design work for future generation
facilities and the accomplishments in approving the billing system were instrumental in
preparing the Power VI project, which is the main vehicle for developing the power
system at least cost and maintaining TANESCO's financial viability. The Power VI project
is implementing the design of hydroelectric facilities which Credit 2330-TA (project under
review) provided. The construction of these facilities is proceeding well. The Power VI
Project also is completing the installation of the accounting and billing systems, since the
cost of the improvements extended beyond the funds available under Credit 2330-TA.
Specialist staff is providing training in the operation of the new systems.
21.  IDA's main concern about the future operation of the project's components is
whether or not TANESCO will be able to maintain the integrity of the new billing system
now that the project is completed. After reviewing the status of billing system development
IDA has recommended that TANESCO obtain some specialized assistance to supervise
the development of the billing system for an additional 12-18 months following the
departure of the original consultants. TANESCO has hired consultants from the Electricity
Supply Board of Ireland (ESBI) to provide this oversight. Furthermore, the Bank has
recommended that TANESCO take specific actions to ensure: timely procurement of
equipment; full integration of pre-payment metering into the company's operations;
improved policies and procedures; monitoring of service standards; provision of adequate
maintenance; and the development of long-range planning. Appendix C (Operational Plan)
outlines these actions in more detail.
22.   The sustainability of the project is likely. The Power VI Project (Credit 2489-TA)
is constructing the facilities for the Lower Kihansi Hydroelectric scheme based on the
design work under Credit 2330-TA. The new computerized accounting system is in place
and TANESCO should be able to sustain the benefits of this system, such as cost
accounting and timely audit reportng with normal updating of data and equipment



- 7 -
maintenance. It also appears that TANESCO will be able to sustain the benefits of the pre-
payment billing system if it adopts the operational plan attached as Appendix C. There are
also plans to extend the prepayment metering system under Power VI. Already
TANESCO has installed 42,925 prepayment meters under both Credit 2330-TA and
Credit 2489-TA. These meters cover about 20 percent of the customer base accounting for
around 60 percent of the company's revenues. Under Credit 2489-TA, TANESCO will
complete improvements to the conventional billing system and will install an additional
10,000 prepayment meters in the Zanzibar power system, which will operate under private
management. There are also plans for installing an additional 10,000 prepayment meters in
the main power system as part of the proposed Songo Songo Power Development Project.
23.   Supervision reports for the Power VI project have raised several issues that need to
be resolved to ensure the efficient operation of the billing system since the consultants left
in February 1997. First, it appears that there is no standard set of monthly reports on the
operation of the system, which may indicate that TANESCO still views the prepayment
system as a pilot project, rather than a long-term business procedure. Second, a review of
conmection standards is necessary for both interior wiring and external connection to the
TANESCO system. Third, the external consultant for the prepayment metering system has
indicated that the interest and competence of the technical personnel varied but that with
proper organization and supervision they would be able to install and maintain the
prepayment meters properly after the end of the external consultant's contract. To ensure
the sustainability of the prepayment metering system, the supervision work of the Power VI
project has made some recommendations for the future operation of the system which the
operational plan has incorporated.
G.   MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
24.   The following are the major lessons learned by IDA in the implementation of the
project:
*  A technical assistance project to advance project design preparation can be
extremely useful to the implementation of the least-cost power development
plan. The time saved by early preparation was particularly important due to the
emergency power situation that developed during the implementation of the
project, thus increasing the importance of completing the Lower Kihansi project
on schedule.
*  A pre-payment metering system can be a very effective way to both improve
power company finances and encourage customers to conserve electricity.
However, any power company introducing such a system needs to make sure
that its technical configuration can accurately reflect the tariff structure.
Fortunately, in the case of Tanzania, both IDA and TANESCO responded
promptly to the initial problems in the system's technical configuration and



- 8-
found a viable cost-effective solution to the problem. The simplification of the
tariff structure, which took place during the project's implementation period
but not part of the project, also enhanced the performance of the prepayment
metering system by reducing the number of tariff categories and thus lessening
the likelihood of errors and customer dissatisfaction.
*  TANESCO should manage its consultants closely to ensure the efficient use of
time; minimize the need for contract extensions; and detect errors in operations.
One way to achieve this is to request more frequent reports and reviews,
perhaps on a monthly basis, and a final operational manual to help with the
transfer of skills. In addition, lump sum contracts instead of contracts based on
a number of days, which TANESCO has begun to employ, link payments to
performance and are likely to encourage adherence to schedule. However,
further commercialization of the utility is necessary to develop a sufficient
incentive structure for improved management.
* A technical assistance project can be useful to continuing the dialogue between
the Bank and the Borrower on important sector issues while a large investment
project is under preparation. For example, Credit 2330-TA was able to promote
the move toward pricing electricity at economic and financial cost by including
substantial tariff increases as project covenants. Also , the project enabled IDA
to maintain a dialogue with the GOT on power sector organization and tariff
reform.
*  It is important to allow adequate time to the data clean-up and consolidation for
billing and accounting systems which have many manual transactions and staff
that lack experience in modem financial control systems. The timeline which
the project originally provided was one year between the award of the contract
and the installation of the new system. A more realistic timeline, based on
experience with Credit 2330-TA, is about two and a half years.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND APPENDICES



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND APPENDICES
Tables:
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation - Not applicable
Table 7:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits - Not applicable
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements - Not applicable
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
Appendix A: Proposed Operational Plan



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment        Substantial     Partial      Negligible     Not Applicable
Categories
Macroeconomic Policies                                                   X
Sector Policies                          X
Financial Objectives        X
Institutional                            X
development
Physical objectives         X
Gender concerns                                                          x
Other social objectives                                                  X
Environmental               X                                            X
Public sector                            X
management
Private sector                           X
development
Other                                                                    X
B.    Project Sustainability
Likely                    Uncertain         |         Unlikely
x



C.    Bank Performance
Stage of Project    Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory          Deficient
Cycle 
Identification                                  X
Preparation                                     X
Appraisal                                       X
Supervision                                     x
D.    Borrower Performance
Stage of Project    Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory          Deficient
Cycle
Preparation                                     X
Implementation                                  X
Covenant                                        X
Compliance
E.    Assessment of Outcome
Highly        Satisfactory     Marginally     Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
x



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title   Loan/Credit  Amount            Purpose           Year of         Status
No.           US$m                               Approval
Preceding Operations
Power IV            C1405-TA        35.0   Complete design work for the    1984      Completed
least-cost generation project
and upgrade the accounting
and billing systems.
Power I             L518-TA         5.2    Meet projected power          1969        Completed
demand by adding 20 Mw of
diesel capacity.
Power II            L715-TA         30.0   First phase of Kidatu         1970        Completed
Hydroelectric Project and
extension of diesel capacity.
Power III           L1306-TA        30.0   Finance second phase of       1976        Completed
Kidatu development.
Petroleum Sector TA   C1604-TA      8.0    Exploration Promotion for     1985        Completed
I                                           petroleum.
Power Rehab./Energy  C 1687-TA      40.0   Rehabilitation of             1986        Completed
transmission and distribution
Petroleum Rehab.    C22020-TA       44.0   Rehabilitation refinery and  1991         Completed
storage
Following Operations                       Construct the Kihansi
Power VI            C2489-TA       200.0   hydroelectric plant and
strengthen TANESCO's         19             non
management.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle         Date planned            Date actual/estimate
Identification
Preparation                         Jan 1991                    Jan 1991
Appraisal                           May 1991                   May 1991
Negotiations                     September 1991               January 1992
Letter of development policy          NA                          NA
Board presentation and           November 1991                January 1992
approval
Signing                               NA                      March 1992
Effectiveness                     January 1992                June 12, 1992
Project completion               December 1994                 June 1996
Credit closing                    June 30, 1995               June 30, 1996
Source: Project Files, Bank Management Information System and Bank staff estimates.



Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in million US$)
FY   FY  FY  FY  FY
92       93     94      95     96
Appraisal estimate            2.8    4.4    8.0    10.0   10.0
Actual                        0.0    4.9    7.0    8.7    10.6
Actual as % of estimate       NA      112    87       87     106
Date of final disbursement             October 11, 1996
Source: Project Files and Loan Department.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in the     Expected      Actual/ICR
SAR/President's Report             Completion    Estimate of
Date         Completion
Date
Detailed design and bid document preparation
Award of contract                              12/31/91        12/91
Completion of mobilization                     01/31/92        12/91
Draft inception report                         04/30/92        01/92
Draft preliminary works tender documents       06/30/92        04/92
Draft civil works prequalification document   07/31/92         06/92
Draft project definition report                09/30/92        07/92
Bid for engineering/supervision                09/30/92        09/92
Evaluation of preliminary works contract       10/31/92        09/92
Draft field investigation report               11/30/92        10/92
Draft main civil works contract tender documents  12/31/92     11/92
Drafts of all other tender documents           03/31/93        12/92
Billing and Accounting Components                              03/92
Award of Contract                              04/00/92         31
Installation of new hardware and software      04/00/93         a/
Installation of new procedures                 10/00/93         a!
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.



a/ The award of the contracts for these services took place during June/July 1994, a little more
than a year later than originally planned. The delay resulted from longer time required to prepare
terms of reference and recruit consultants. The final installation of hardware and software for
the accounting system began in July 1995 and was completed under the Power VI Project. The
introduction of prepayment meters for the billing system also began in July 1996 and was
completed in February 1997 under Credit 2489-TA.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable to this project.
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                 Purpose                  Status              Impact
Environmental       To ensure that the Lower       Completed.      The project
Assessment          Kihansi Hydroelectric                          consolidated
Scheme will have no                           environmental work
significant adverse                            into a formal report
environmental and social                       which indicated that
impacts.                                       the Lower Kihansi
project would not
cause significant
environmental
problems and
produced a mitigation
plan.
Source: Project Files.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Item          Appraisal Estimate (US$mm)         Actual/latest estimate (US$mm)
Local     Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign     Total
costs      costs       costs       costs      costs       costs
Training           0.00        0.15        0.15       0.00        0.18        0.18
Construction of     1.00       0.15        1.15        1.11       0.18        1.29
Training Center
Equipment and      0.10        1.90        2.00       0.11        2.24        2.35
vehicles
Consultancy         --          --         --          --          --          --
Services
Detailed design    0.25        4.30        4.55        0.29       5.06        5.35
and preparation
of bid documents
Billing and        0.08        1.25        1.33       0.09        1.47        1.56
accounting
Finance            0.00        1.20       1.20        0.00        1.41        1.41
Environmental      0.00        0.05        0.05       0.00        0.06        0.06
Update
Subtotal           0.33        6.80        7.13       0.38        8.00        8.38
Base Cost           1.43       9.00       10.43        1.6        10.6        12.2
Contingencies
Physical           0.13        0.60        0.73        --          --          --
Price              0.06        0.40        0.46
Subtotal           0.19        1.00        1.19        --          --
TOTAL COSTS         1.62       10.00      11.62        1.6        10.6        12.2
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.



Table 8B: Project Financing
(in US$ million)
Source            Appraisal estimate                Actual/latest estimate
Local      Foreign     Total       Local      Foreign      Total
costs      costs       costs       costs       costs       costs
IDA            0.00       10.00       10.00        0.0        10.6        10.6
TANESCO        1.62       0.00        1.62         1.6        0.0          1.6
TOTAL          1.62       10.00       11.62        1.6        10.6        12.2
Source: Project Files and Bank Staff estimates.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable to this project. No economic rate-of-return calculated at appraisal
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
-,kgreement/   Covenant   Status   Original    Revised       Covenant description     Comments
Section       type               fulfillment  fulfillment
_  _      _                date        date              _ _ _ _
iCA/3.01(a)  Management    C          NA          NA      Borrower declares
commitment to project
objectives; re-lending the
proceeds to TANESCO at
7.3 % interest for 18 years
and not amend the loan
agreement with TANESCO
without IDA agreement.
CA/ 3.02    Procurement     C        NA          NA      Procurement of goods,
works and services subject
to provisions of the PA.
'CA/ 3.03    General        C        NA          NA       TANESCO shall carry out
conditions                                   obligations outlined in
section 2.03 of the PA.
-CA/4.01(a)  Project        C        NA          NA       Borrower and IDA to
Execution                                    exchange views on
Borrower's electricity
pricing policies and plans
for power sector
development.



Agreement/   Covenant   Status   Original I Revised  |  Covenant description         Comments
Section       type              fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
DCA/4.02(b)  Financial       C        NA          NA      Borrower agrees to establish
prices that allow
TANESCO: to earn an
adequate return on funds
invested, meet financial
obligations and make a
reasonable contribution to
future power system
expansion.
DCA/4.02(c)  Financial       C      January       NA      Borrower to approve a tariff
1992                increase of at least 15% on
July 1992             agreed dates.
PA/3.01      Management    PC         NA          NA      TANESCO to conduct its    TANESCO
and                                         operations according to    was inhibited
operations                                  sound administrative,      in full
financial and public utility   compliance
practices.                because of the
difficulty of
collecting
Government
Accounts.
PAf3.02      Management    C          NA          NA      TANESCO to operate and
and                                          maintain plant, machinery,
operations                                   equipment and other
property according to sound
engineering and financial
practices, making repairs
and renewals as necessary.
PAf3.03      Management    C          NA          NA      TANESCO to have
and                                         insurance in satisfactory
operations                                   amounts against risks in line
with appropriate utility
practice.
PA/4.01(a)    Financial      C        NA          NA      TANESCO to maintain
records reflecting its
operating and financial
condition according to sound
accounting practices.



'greement/ |Covenant  |Status    Original |Revised  |Covenant description   |Commenbt |
Section        type              fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
J4.01 (b)   Financial       C        NA          NA      TANESCO to have audits of
its records, financial
statements and the Special
Account, for each fiscal
year, by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA.
./4.01b,ii   Financial     NC     14 months              TANESCO to furnish         TANESCO's
after FY90             certified copies of financial   performance in
statements for each FY of    this area has
NC     10 months              the project with a report of   improved after
detail and scope as       the
6 months              reasonably requested by   introduction of
NC    after FY92              IDA.                       the new
and                                            accounting
thereafter                                       system.
/4.Olb,iii  Financial      C        NA          NA       TANESCO to furnish IDA
with other information about
records, accounts and
financial statements as
reasonably requested.
/4.02      Financial       C       January               TANESCO to increase its
1992                average tariff at least 15%              1
July 1992              on agreed dates.
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Abbreviations: DCA=Development Credit Agreement; PA=Project Agreement; C=compliance;
NC=non-compliance; and NA= not applicable.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable to this project.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle |  Planned       [         Actual        1
|_________________ |Weeks         US$      Weeks       US$000
Through appraisal      NR         NR        3.4          8.3
Appraisal              NR         NR        9.3         23.5
Negotiations through    NR        NR        15.4        39.2
Board approval                I                                  I l  l _l
| Supervision            NR        NR        33.1        91.9
Completion             NR         NR        6.0   |              l
Abbreviations: NR=not reported.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project   Month/   Number of  Days in  Specialized  Performance   Types of
cycle        Year       persons    field    staff skills   rating    problems
represented
Through
appraisal
01-02/91     NR         NR         NR          NR           NR
Preparation
Appraisal
through Board
approval
Appraisal         05/91        2          14      FA, HE        NA           NA
Post Appraisal    11/91        2          3       FA, PE
Supervision
Supervision 1   06-07/92       2         15       EC, PE        NR           PS
Supervision 2     06/93        2         15       FA, PE        NR          AUD
Supervision 3     09/93        1         20         PE          NR          AUD
Supervision 4     05/94        3         16    ES, FA, 2PE      NR            F
Supervision 5   07-08/94       2         18       FA, PE         2         AUD, F,
Supervision 6    03-04/95      1         '13        PE          NR          F, M
Supervision 7    03-04/96      3         14       FA, 2PE       NR            F



Stage of project   Month/   Number of  Days in  Specialized  Performance   Types of
cycle         Year       persons     field    staff skills   rating      problems
represented
Completion          NA          NA         NA         NA           NA           NA
The project did
not include a
completion
mission.
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Problem Codes
Types of problems: AUD=auditing problems; F=financial problems; M=management
problems; PS=power shortages
Mission Staffing Codes
ES=Environmental Specialist; FA=Financial Analyst; HE=Hydropower Engineer PE=Power
Engineer
Other Codes
NA=Not applicable; NR=Not reported



Appendix A
Page I of 3
TANZANIA
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2330-TAN)
PROPOSED OPERATIONAL PLAN
Introduction
The main component of the Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project,
the design of the Lower Kihansi hydroelectric component, is complete and the power
station is under construction. The new accounting system is in place, the new training
center is operational and TANESCO is capable of sustaining its operation. However, the
Bank has concerns about the planning and organization for maintain the integrity of the new
billing system after the original system consultants depart in February 1997. Therefore, in
the context of the ongoing Power VI project, TANESCO followed the Bank's
recommendation to obtain some specialized external oversight for an additional 12-18
months. The Bank has recommended that TANESCO take specific actions in the following
areas: procurement, the full integration of prepayment metering into the company's
operations, policies and procedures, service, maintenance, and long-range planning. The
following sections summarize these recommendations.
Procurement
TANESCO needs to ensure the timely procurement of materials for prepayment
metering in order to avoid public relations problems and resulting pressures to use
convention metering in areas where TANESCO has designated prepayment metering as a
viable option. The transition to the prepayment metering system should be as smooth as
possible.
Integration into Operations
It is important for TANESCO's staff to view prepayment metering as part of the
company's normal operations and not as a temporary experiment or pilot. Some regional
offices with two types of metering must have clear procedures to make distinctions and
maintain the integrity of prepayment areas.
Policies and Procedures
TANESCO needs to provide written policies, procedures and position descriptions
to allocate responsibilities for prepayment operations. Before the departure of consultants
and contractors, they need to ensure that they have appropriate descriptions of all



Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
prepayment billing functions. TANESCO needs to define both general policy objectives
and several specific policies which are necessary for the efficient functioning of the system.
There should be basically two objectives for the prepayment billing system: (a)
improving utility collections and cash flow by eliminating delayed payments and bad debts
and reducing operating expenses; and (b) increasing customer satisfaction by instilling
confidence in the accuracy of the billing system, allowing convenient schedules of customer
payments, and providing real-time information to customers on their electricity usage, in
order to promote energy conservation.
Specific policies which TANESCO should include in its operations are: installing
prepayment meters in all areas where economically justified'; calculating the economic
break-even point for installation and submitting budget proposals for those that meet the
economic criteria; installing prepayment meters in all locations that meet the economic
criteria for selection; and locating prepaid card vending stations within walking distance of
customers.2
Detailed operating procedures are necessary for a broad range of functions such as
applications for new service, transfer of accounts, installation of equipment, procurement of
materials, maintenance of inventory, repair of equipment, sale of prepayment cards, data
base maintenance, and periodic reports. These procedures should consist of operational
instructions which provide the details for implementing specific policies and desk or field
procedures which are step-by-step instructions for training new employees to perform
specific functions. Most of the instruction material should be available since the consultant
and the contractor are responsible for training TANESCO employees to operate and
maintain the prepayment system. The consultant should ensure that TANESCO has such
instructions organized in a formal operations manual, which should include position
descriptions for key personnel performing the functions.
Service Standards
TANESCO should review service standards continuously and revise them if
necessary to minimize connection costs. In new constructions, TANESCO should provide a
customer all wiring from the household distribution panel to the point of attachment to the
TANESCO system, with detailed instructions and drawings on the requirements for
installing the prepayment meter. In addition all installations in areas likely to have
prepayment meters in the future should have wiring that meets the standards for prepayment
The criteria for selection considers the average cost per installation and the average revenues from the
customers in the proposed installation area. For example at $150 per installation and present tariffs, an
average monthly usage of 120 kwh may justify connection.
2Generally no customer should have to walk more than 2000 meters to purchase a prepayment card.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
meters. TANESCO should adopt the contractor's installation documents on service wiring
and connections standards, editing, and reformatting it where appropriate.
Maintenance
TANESCO's data indicates that the rate of prepayment meter failure is about 1%
annually. Therefore a reasonable estimate for maintenance is that TANESCO should be
prepared to respond to one or two failure reports per day. Beginning in March 1997,
TANESCO staff will be responsible for evaluating malfunctions and replacing failed units
in the field. All service personnel should receive training in detecting the reasons for failure
and have the proper equipment in the service truck to make immediate replacement and
restore service to the customer. TANESCO also needs to develop a policy for disposing of
failed units. Two viable options are (a) obtaining an agreement with the manufacturer or
other contractor to maintain repair facilities for repayment meters in Dar es Salaam or, (b)
ship the units to the manufacturing plant for repair and return. In making the choice
between the two, TANESCO will have to evaluate repair costs, shipping costs and
estimated downtime of the units.
Long Range Planning
Over the long term, TANESCO should extend the use of prepayment meters to all
areas of the country where they are economically justified. The company should review
areas under consideration and update the necessary cost and benefit information annually.
Position Descriptions
TANESCO needs to more clearly specify the functions of the Manager of Customer
accounts and both the zonal and regional levels.






I ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~
IMAGING
Report No.:         18823
Type:      ICR



