Docrim   of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4170-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$60 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
THIRD RUBBER REPLANTING PROJECT
April 21, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00       =  Baht (B) 26.00
B1.00       =  $0.04
$1 million  =  B 26 million
Bl million  =  $38,500
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 rai          =  0.16 hectare
1 hectare (ha) = 6.25 rai
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAAC   -  Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
BOB    -  Bureau of the Budget
CDC    -  Commonwealth Development Corporation, UK
DOA    - Department of Agriculture, MOAC
DOAE   -  Department of Agricultural Extension, HOAC
FPO    -  Fiscal Policy Office, HOF
ICB    -  International competitive bidding
LCB    -  Local competitive bidding
MOAC   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
HOF    - Ministry of Finance
NIDA   - Natioaal Institute for Development and Administration
NRPC   - National Rubber Policy Committee
NRSDP  -  Needy Rubber Smallholder Development Program
OAE    - Office of Agricultural Economics, MOAC
ORRAF  -  Office of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund
RFD    -  Royal Forestry Department, MOAC
RRC    -  Rubber Research Center
RRIT   - Rubber Research Institute of Thailand, DOA



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
- THIRD RUBBER REPLANTING PROJECT
Loan and Project Sunmary
Borrower:               Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiaries:          Office of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund (ORRAF),
Department of Agricultural Extension (DOAE), Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand (RRIT) and 113,000
rubber replanting farm families.
Loan Amount:            US$60 million equivalent.
Terms:                  Repayable in 17 years including a grace period of four
years at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:    The project would comprise:  (a) a four year time
slice of ORRAF's agricultural development program,
including new rubber replanting of about 50,000 ha
p.a. and continuation and completion of past
replantings to maturity (about 290,000 ha); (b)
ORRAF's related field administration, management and
training costs; (c) upgrading of RRIT research
centers; Cd) DOAE group processing and marketing
centers and replanter training; (e) technical
assistance to improve Ci) ORRAF's organization and
management structure; and (ii) RRIT's adaptive
research, base line surveys and linkages between
research and extension. Under the proposed project,
the ORRAF program would also be modified to: ensure
more cost effective use of financial and staff
resources; re-orient targets, resources and procedures
to reach the more needy rubber smallholders under a
special Needy Rubber Smallholder Development Program;
and improve coordination of technical and training
support among key rubber development agencies
including a clearer demarcation of their responsibil-
ities.
Risks:                  Low.  Implementation capacity of ORRAF is
satisfactory. Provisions have also been made to
ensure that sufficient funding would be available.
Thi doument ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performane
of their official dutis Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoon.



Estimated Cost:
ORRAF                                         Local         Foreign      Total
(U.S. $ million)
Agricultural development                    137.1              57.4     194.5
Administration and training                  37.8                .9      38.7
Subtotal                                  174.9             58.3      233.2
RRIT
Research and technical assistance              1.4              0.7       2.1
DOAE
Extension, processing and marketing
improvement                                1.0               1.2       2.2
Base cost                                   177.3              60.2     237.5
Physical contingencies                        0.2              n.s.       0.2
Price contingencies                          14.1              11.7      25.8
Total Project Cost al                     191.6              71.9     263.5
Financing plan:
World Bank                                     2.1             57.9      60.0
Commonwealth Development Corp.                0.5              14.0      14.5
Government                                  189.0                 -     189.0
Total                                    191.6              71.9     263.5
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY             1987    1988    1989    1990   1991    1992
===--------Ui $ million)
Annual              3.3    11.7    15.6    17.1   11.0        1.3
Cumulative          3.3    15.0    30.6    47.7   58.7    60.0
Economic Rate of Return: 18Z
a/ Including taxes and duties of US$7.5 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A THIRD RUBBER REPLANTING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $60.0 million to help
finance a Third Rubber Replanting Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including four years grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) of the United Kingdom would
make available a loan of E 10 million ($14.5 million equivalent) to the
Kingdom of Thailand.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Managing Public Resources for Struc-
tural Adjustment" (Report No. 4366-TH) was issued on August 31, 1983. It
reviewed progress in the implementation of structural adjustment policies and
proposed directions for further action. An economic mission visited Thailand
in July 1985, and an economic report has been discussed with the Government
and is being finalized. It focuses on medium-term issues of resource
mobilization, institutional development and employment, as Thailand approaches
its Sixth Five-Year Development Plan (October 1986-September 1991).
Recent Political Developments
3.        Since the early 1970s, the political process in Thailand has broad-
ened and matured significantly. Initially, this was accompanied by frequent
and sometimes abrupt changes in government leadership. Since the 1977 general
elections, however, Thailand has enjoyed a period of greater political stabil-
ity and continuity of policy. Cabinet shuffles have continued to take place,
reflecting shifts in the makeup of the coalitions of political parties, mili-
tary and business leaders, and technocrats, which have governed the country
for the past five years. However, only one change in Prime Minister has
occurred during this period. General Prem Tinsulanonda was appointed as Prime
Minister in March 1980 and has been successful in mobilizing support for a
major program of economic structural adjustment, embodied in the Fifth Five-
Year Plan, 1982-86. Senior civil servants supporting this program were given
key positions in the public sector. Although there are continuing internal
debates on the details and speed of policy implementation, overall, a broad
public consensus on national policy priorities has been maintained.
4.        National elections were held again on April 18, 1983, in which can-
didates from ten parties were elected to Parliament. No party secured an out-
right majority, but Prime Minister Prem succeeded in forming a new four-party
coalition which includes two of the three leading parties and has the backing
of approximately two-thirds of the elected representatives. As part of a
gradual constitutional reform aiming at increased representative government,



transitional arrangements had been in place to permit serving military,
civilian and other non-elected officials to continue to play a stabilizing
role in both the legislative and executive branches of government through
their appointment to the Senate and to Cabinet posts. These transitional
arrangements have lapsed, curtailing the Senate's powers and prohibiting
military and civilian officials from participating in the Cabinet. These
changes, when combined with the current coalition's diversity and the Prime
Minister's lack of an independent political power base, have made it necessary
to take time to achieve and maintain consensus on difficult economic issues.
This approach may in part have helped the Covernment to withstand two attempt-
ed coups. The Government has recently endorsed a set of broad objectives for
Thailand's Sixth Five-Year Plan (1987-91). The main themes for the plan con-
cern continuation and completion of investment programs included in the Fifth
Plan and measures to improve economic efficiency and institutional
administration.
Past Economic Trends
5.        Thailand's economy grew rapidly over the past two decades and devel-
oped successfully by most standards of international comparison. The 7% per
annum GDP growth combined with a population growth of about 2Z per annum
allowed per capita incomes to grow at almost 5% per annum during 1960-80,
among the highest sustained rates for developing countries. The reduction of
poverty was substantial for a country still among the lowest third of middle-
income developing countries, as the overall incidence of poverty dropped from
about 57% in the early 1960s to about 32% in the mid-1970s and 24% by 1981.
Despite its continuing reliance on agriculture, Thailand experienced a far-
reaching transformation of its economic and social structure during the past
two decades, with a high growth in modern industrial and service sector
activities, extension of transport and communications infrastructure
throughout the country, rapid modernization, and a significant increase in the
openness of the economy to trade and capital flows, tourism and international
labor migration. The rapid growth in Thailand's exports played a particularly
important role in stimulating aggregate demand and providing the necessary
means to finance imports. Moreover, because of this rapid export growth, the
Thai debt service burden remained moderate.
6.        However, because of its increased openness, its heavy dependence on
imported oil, and an expansionary fiscal stance in the late 1970s, the Thai
economy was substantially affected by the two oil price shocks and by the
ensuing international economic upheaval. A relatively high rate of overall
growth was maintained initially, but this was accompanied by accelerating
inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on for-
eign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 10% in 1979, by 20% in 1980, and
by 13% in 1981. The Central Government deficit has exceeded 4% of GDP since
1979. Notwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the current account
deficit amounted to about 7% of CDP from 1979 to 1983; consequently, there has
been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's traditionally low external debt.



7.        Initially, the Government was slow in responding to the changing
external conditions, but, beginning in 1980, policy adjustments were under-
taken at a gradually accelerating pace through 1982. They included sharp
increases in prices for most petroleum products, electricity and other public
services, measures to increase government revenues, a substantial increase in
real interest rates, and the changes in regulations to increase financial
stability and monetary restraint. In October 1981, the Government inaugurated
its Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-36) which made structural adjustment one of its
major priorities. In March 1982, the first SAL for Thailand was approved,
followed by SAL II in March 1983. Under these loans the Government committed
itself to taking steps toward adjustments in the structure of the economy
through reductions in domestic price controls, export taxes and controls over
agricultural exports, developing a program for improved land tenure, taking
steps toward rationalization of the structure of incentives for industrial
production, exports, and investment, promoting energy conservation and
efficient development of domestic energy resources, and improving the Govern-
ment's tax structure and administration, pubLic investment planning, and other
areas of public administration.  Progress under both SALs was satisfactory,
although implementation of SAL II was at a somewhat slower pace than original-
ly expected, especially in the area of public resource management and institu-
tional development.
8.        Macroeconomic developments in Thailand during the last three years
(1982-85) have been strongly influenced by a number of external factors. The
most important of these were the worldwide recession in 1982, gradual recovery
in 1983 and 1984, continuing high interest rates and increasing strength of
the dollar to which the baht was linked until November 1984, and increasing
protectionism in OECD countries. The average growth rate of GDP for 1982-84
was about 52 per annum, and for 1985, only 4%. This lower-than-historical
growth performance has been due to the external factors cited above. Agricul-
tural preduction which had increased slowly in 1982 and 1983 because of poor
weather and low commiodity prices, rebounded in 1984 and 1985 as weather
improved permitting paddy rice, maize, and cassava production to reach record
levels. As a result of weak domestic demand, lower international prices, and
an appreciating exchange rate, domestic inflation dropped from 13Z in 1981 to
less than 7% in 1983 and 1Z in 1984. Following devaluation, it has risen
modestly to 3% in 1985.
9.        Thailand's current account deficit has remained stubbornly high
throughout the early 1980s reaching a high of 7.5% in 1983, and falling to
5.OZ in 1984 and with a slowdown of the economy, to about 4% in 1985. These
persistent and unsustainable deficits have had two primary causes. First,
between 1981 and 1984, Thailand's exports lost competitiveness as the baht
appreciated in relation to the currencies of most of its trading partners. By
mid-1984, it was clear that the real appreciation of the baht which was pegged
to the US dollar was undermining the stabilization and restructuring mea-
sures. In November 1984, therefore, the baht was devalued by 14.8% and de-
linked from the dollar. This has already had a beneficial impact oni manufac-
tured exports, which are expected to rise by 13% in real terms in 1985, and in
curbing consumer imports. The devaluation has had relatively little impact on
inflation. Second, the external imbaLance has been also due to an excessive
public sector investment savings-gap, which averaged about 5% of GDP since



1980. Reducing this deficit through taxation and cost recovery measures and
through careful expenditure management is a high priority for the
Government. This priority is being supported by an IMF standby (signed in May
1985).
Development Constraints and Prospects
10.       During the 1980s, many of the positive factors which contributed to
Thailand's rapid economic growth and reduction in poverty over the preceding
two decades will continue to do so, including the relatively equitable distri-
bution of agricultural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved tech-
nology, a good network of public infrastructure, and a dynamic private sector
in industry, agriculture and services. Substantial reductions in the rate of
population growth between the mid-1960s and late 1970s and discovery of domes-
tic gas and oil supplies are further positive factors which will support the
continued rapid development of Thailand.
11.       Against these favorable factors, however, a number of important con-
straints must be recognized and addressed: (a) the rapid growth of Thailand's
public sector over the last decade, particularly of major state enterprises,
without commensurate growth in public resource mobilization, has posed a
serious challenge to improvements in institutional and fiscal management;
(b) for the longer term, the exhaustion of agricultural land reserves could
severely limit employment growth and exports of the agricultural sector,
unless input-intensive agricultural development proceeds; (c) further indus-
trial development, exports and employment growth may similarly be limited
unless the international competitiveness and diversification of Thai industry
are strengthened through correct incentives and support for marketing, finance
and technological developments; (d) despite the promising outlook for domestic
energy resources, their development is costly and will take time, and thus
continued efforts in energy conservation are required; (e) the decline in the
population growth rate appears to have slowed in recent years; further reduc-
tions will require innovative policies; (f) continued long-term development
and poverty alleviation will also depend on continued efforts in human
resource development, including education, technical skill development, and
improvements in health and nutrition; and (g) finally, the pace of development
will increasingly be hampered by inefficient metropolitan growth in Bangkok
unless steps are taken to rationalize the city's land use and transport, water
drainage and sanitation systems; Thailand's secondary cities, too, require
strengthening of their infrastructure and administrative capabilities to
prepare them for the expected future growth in urban population.
12.       These long-term economic development concerns have been compounded
by medium-term adjustment problems as a result of the two oil price shocks and
the subsequent world recession accompanied by poor export prospects, high real
interest rates and increasing barriers in OECD countries to Thailand exports.
While lower oil prices will help, economic projections indicate that even if
appropriate policies were fully implemented, economic growth for the remainder
of the decade will be lower than Thailand has enjoyed in the past (6.0% per
annum for the remainder of the 1980s compared with 7.4% in the late 1970s).
Although this growth is better than that of most other developing countries,
this will make it more difficult to reduce the incidence of poverty and



-5-
heightens the need for policies which raise labor absorption and for continued
efforts in the areas of human capital development and rural development.
13.       To help address these constraints, the Government has sought the
assistance of the IMF and the Bank.  During the past four years, Thailand made
purchases from the IMF under two compensatory financing facilities (SDR 186
million), a buffer stock financing facility (SDR 58 million), and three stand-
by arrangements (totalling SDR 667 million). The Third Standby became effec-
tive in June 1985 and will run for two and-a-half years during which Thailand
will be eligible to purchase SDR 400 million. Thailand sought assistance from
the Bank in implementing its structural adjustment program through two struc-
tural adjustment loans and sector work, and loans to priority sectors. The
Bank is also helping the Government with the development of selected parts of
the Sixth Five-Year Plan.
Financing Requirements
14.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public-expenditures, though they
will need to decline somewhat in relation to GDP because of fiscal con-
straints. The Government has reduced expenditures as a short-term step and
has increased taxes as the basis for longer term increases in revenue gen-
eration. While the Government has taken steps to revise the tax structure and
to improve tax administration and collections, further measures are needed.
In addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which has improved
following tariff increases over the last four years, and cutbacks in overly
ambitious investment programs, will need further improvement. The Government
is currently reviewing appropriate policies to achieve a more efficient and
financially viable state enterprise sector.
15.       Despite these policy measures, the demand for external resources
will remain substantial. Macroeconomic projections indicate that, even with
structural adjustment policies in place, the current account deficit may
amount to about 2Z of GDP through the remainder of the 1980s. This will
require large amounts of external borrowing, with new commitments totalling
about $16 billion over the Sixth Plan period 1987-91, of which more than half
is expected to be in the form of public and publicly guaranteed debt. Total
debt service payments (including interest on short-term debt) as a percentage
of exports of goods and nonfactor services rose from 19% in 1981 to 27% in
1985 and is not expected to fall to below 20% until 1990 even with continued
availability of significant levels of concessional assistance and continued
improvements in Thailand's debt management strategy.
16.       However, because the level of public debt continues to concern
Government, it has established the National Debt Policy Committee to coordi-
nate and approve all borrowing by the public sector. External borrowing
ceilings of $2.1 billion in FY84, $1.6 billion in FY85, and $1.0 billion in
FY86 have been set. In addition, the Bank of Thailand is improving its proce-
dures for recording private borrowing abroad to keep track of total foreign
debt. In this constrained environment, official donors, particularly the



-6-
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan, meet a significant part of
Thailand's public external resource requirements, and the balance is being
financed mainly through syndicated loan and bond issues that have been
competitively priced. In recent years, external agencies, including the Bank,
have supported project lending in some sectors that have high social benefit
but low foreign exchange savings or earnings. To continue participating in
these sectors in Thailand, it is necessary to finance some local currency
expenditures in selected projects with low foreign exchange component.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and as of March 31, 1986, had received 83 IBRD loans (including
2 third-window loans) and 6 IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellations)
$3,446 million in loans and $119 million in credits. As of that date,
$807 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA credits and IFC investments.  Bank Loans
and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$2,294 million as of March 31, 1986 and accounted for 17.6Z of Thailand's
total debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of Thailand's
total debt service payments amounted to 11.7Z in 1985. As of March 31, 1986,
IFC had made 24 commitments totalling $229 miLlion in 15 projects in Thailand.
IFC's investments have been primarily in industry and in the development of
financial institutions. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand
have been enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity and by
increased potential for developing indigenous resources.
18.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in percent-
age, has been as follows: 30% for energy; 25% for agriculture and ruraL devel-
opment; 16Z for transportation; 8Z for telecommunications; 4% for urban devel-
opment; 5% for education; 2% for industry; 1Z for population/health/nutrition;
and 9% for structural adjustment lending. Overall implementacion of Bank
projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the past five years.
Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to 27.1% in 1985.
19.       The main objective of Bank Group activities in Thailand is to pro-
mote the country's economic growth and development through structural adjust-
ment, productive investments in the key sectors of the economy, and poverty
alleviation measures. The economic and sector work program is designed to
achieve this objective by assisting the Government to improve its public
resource management, enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of productive
sectors, and rationalize the policies and investments for infrastructure
development. The Government has valued the analytical input and technical
assistance provided by the Bank in these areas, and this is reflected in the
work done on structural adjustment, including the preparation for SAL III.
However, the level of the Bank's future lending to Thailand is likely to
continue to be affected by ceilings on public foreign borrowing, reductions in
public investment programs, and the availability of foreign commercial and
concessional sources of finance. The Government has also indicated its



preference to seek highly concassional aid or to use its own resources for
education-, health- and population-related investments. As a result, the
levels of Bank lending are likely to be at or even below the historical
average of the last ten years. In cofinancing, the Bank's primary concern
will be to identify appropriate sources of concessional funding for technical
assistance associated with Bank operations. The above factors are being taken
into account in determining the level and composition of the Bank's operations
program in the following areas.
20.       Energy.  Enerly has been a significant sector for Bank assistance to
Thailand. The Bank has helped finance projects for power generation and
distribution, for lignite mining, and for the development and processing of
hydrocarbon resources. Bank assistance through these projects has served to
strengthen the institutions involved in the sector. Policy analyses and dia-
logue through CESW and SALs have addressed issues in energy management, plan-
ning and the incentive structure. More recently, the Bank collaborated with
NESDB through the Energy Assessment Program to help prepare energy policies
for the Sixth Plan.  The sector's needs and investment programs are likely to
remain large, and a number of planning and pricing issues continue to deserve
government attention. The Bank's future assistance through energy and power
projects combined with a CESW program involving sector work and public invest-
ment programming would help the Government to address these issues and to meet
the resource requirements for the relatively large investments planned in the
sector.
21.       Agriculture/Rural Development.  The importance of the agriculture
sector to the economy and the potential for intensive farming and crop diver-
sification suggest that it should normally continue to be a major focus of
Bank operations. Past Bank assistance through projects has emphasized devel-
opment of the irrigation infrastructure, poverty alleviation, improvements in
land tenure, programs for rubber replanting, and strengthening of the delivery
systems for extension, research and credit. A number of policy reforms in the
areas of institutional coordination, poverty alleviation, land reclas-
sification, and reduced export taxation have been implemented with support
from the Bank's CESW program and via SALs. Future operations are expected to
continue these efforts. However, weaknesses in the provision of support
services by Government departments and some outstanding issues in rural credit
and mobilization of savings may limit future Bank assistance in these areas.
22.       Urban and Water Supply.  The Government intends to devote increasing
attention to the continued expansion and pressures of urban areas in the
country, especially Bangkok. Urban and water supply sectors provide consider-
able investment opportunities, but they also involve institutional and cost
sharing issues. Ongoing sector work for Bangkok, as well as the preparatory
work for urban projects financed or under conside:ation by the Bank, are pro-
viding a good basis for assistance in this sector. Future Bank assistance is
likely to concentrate on providing essential urban infrastructure and shelter
for low-income families in Bangkok and in regional cities.



- 8 -
23.       Transport.  Thailand's transport sector, dominated by road trans-
portation, is generally well developed. The Bank has contributed to develop-
ing transport infrastructure through project lending for roads, railways,
inland waterways and ports. Future Bank role would focus on investments in
infrastructure maintenance, operational efficiency, and selected construction,
as well as on issues in institutional development, investment planning, and
state enterprise finances.
24.       Telecommunications.  The Bank has been closely associated with the
development of the domestic telephone network, and the Bank's first B loan was
made in connection with the third and fourth telecomnunications projects.
However, the Government's plan for rapid network expansion is straining the
institutional/managerial capacity and finances of the implementing agency, the
Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT). It will be necessary for TOT to
consolidate its operations before the Bank would be able to participate in the
next phase of system expansion. Meanwhile, Bank involvement would continue
through supervision of the ongoing project and as part of our economic
dialogue.
PART III - SECTORAL CONTEXT
Background
25.       Thailand's agricultural sector accounts for 25Z of CDP, 60X of
exports and 70% of employment. During 1960-75, the sector performed excep-
tionally well and was able to achieve annual growth rates exceeding 5%; since
1975, however, this has slowed to about 3.5%. Earlier growth was achieved
mostly through expansion of cultivated area, but in future crop production
must be intensified through increased inputs and diversified into higher value
products.
26.       With about 4.5 million farm families occupying about 24 million ha,
farm sizes are necessarily small, but the size distribution is not particu-
larly skewed. Ninety percent of the cultivated area is rainfed. In irrigated
areas, intensification of land use has taken place principally through the use
of higher yielding varieties of crops, complemented with higher use of
technical inputs such as fertilizer and pesticides. In the 1983/84 season,
rice was planted on over 60% of the cultivated area; the major tree crops
(rubber, coconut and oil palm) on 15Z; maize and cassava each on about 8%, and
sugarcane on 5%. In parts of the rainfed areas, the poor natural resource
base and the lack of an appropriate teclnology seriously constrain increased
agricultural production and continued improvement in incomes. Rubber, because
it can grow on poorer soils better than many cash crops like maize and sugar
cane, has been less constrained by soil suitability. In the more humid areas,
especially in Southern Thailand, it has been the main source of agricultural
diversification and poverty alleviation.
27.       The benefits of past economic growth have been relatively well dis-
tributed chroughout the country. Since most agricultural production is by
smallholders, most of the income growth in the sector has accrued to them.



-9 -
The overall incidence of poverty has been reduced from about 57% of the total
population in the early 1960s to about 32Z by the mid-l970s and 24Z by 1981;
and from about 61Z to 35Z to 27Z through the same period in the rural areas.
In the Lower South region, a major rubber growing area, poverty incidence
declined from 55Z in 1975/76 to 19Z in 1981. Since 1981, with a general
decline in Thailand's export commodity prices, the incidence of rural poverty
may well have worsened.
Government Agricultural Policies and Bank Support
28.       The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are:
(a) to increase agricultural efficiency and production as rapidly as possible
(particularly where market prospects are favorable); (b) to alleviate rural
poverty and to redress interregional income disparities; and (c) to expand
agricultural exports rapidly to improve the balance of payments. The Govern-
ment's principal strategies are: creation of an environment in which the pri-
vate sector has the incentives to increase production, marketing and exports;
improved technical packages and support services for intensification and
diversification; demarcation of poverty areas for government support programs;
and establishment of land use policy for better utilization of land suitable
for agriculture, including land titling for individual farmers.
29.       The Bank has supported these objectives and strategies through a
lending program to strengthen the technical and infrastructural base for
improving agricultural production and expanding project planning and imple-
menting capacity. Structural adjustment lending has supported improved
agricultural pricing policies, especially for rice and rubber. Past Bank
financed projects have supported: irrigation, tree crop development, credit,
research and extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives (HOAC), rural/area development (primarily Northeast and North)
and land reform and land titling. To date, the Bank has made 24 agricultural
loans amounting to $924 million, abouc 25% of total lending to Thailand.
The Tree Crop Subsector and the Role of Rubber
30.       Tree crops account for about 15% of the planted area in Thailand and
a similar proportion of the total value of agricultural production. With the
exception of oil palm, tree crop farmers in Thailand are predominantly small-
holders.  Generally, tree crops have long immature periods with high esta-
blishment costs, making it difficult for smallholders to establish the trees
initially and then replant at the optimum time. Rubber and coconuts, which
dominate the treecrop smallholder subsector, are normally grown on soils not
suitable for annual crops and play an important role in poverty alleviation.
31.       Rubber is the most important tree crop in Thailand.  Although some
530,000 farm families are directly engaged in rubber growing, about 5 million
people are estimated to be directly linked to rubber as planters, tappers,
traders and processors. Ninety percent of rubber is grown in the Southern
Region but it has been expanded to the East, and recently the Northeast, as an
alternative to cassava. The statistics are not very accurate but the total
rubber area is estimated to be about 1.6 million ha (1984), of which 20-30% is
low productivity, old rubber. About 480,000 ha (of which about 200,000 ha are



- 10 -
in production) have been replanted to high yielding rubber under the Govern-
ment-assisted replanting program of the Office of the Rubber Replanting Aid
Fund (ORRAF). Rubber production and exports have been increasing at about 5%
p.a. over the last decade. In 1983 net exports were about 550,000 tons (92%
of production) valued at US$520 million contributing about 12Z to Thailand's
foreign exchange earnings. Coconut and oil palm, grown commercially on about
390,000 ha and 54,000 ha respectively, are also mainly confined to the
South. Government recently reaffirmed the importance of ORRAF's 50,000
ha/year replanting program, singling out its important contribution to the
Sixth Five Year Development Plan (1987-91) notably in export revenue genera-
tion and development of the Southern Region.
Institutional Arrangements
32.       Research and Government plancing material production for all tree
crops is the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture (DOA). The DOA's
rubber-related activities are handled by the Rubber Research Institute of
Thailand (RRIT) while other tree crops fall under DOA's Horticulture Research
Institute. Except for immature rubber replanted by ORRAF, extension services
are provided by the Department of Agricultural Extension (DOAE). Credit is
supplied either by the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
(BAAC) or private banks. Inputs, except for immature replanted rubber, are
provided through commercial channels. Marketing and processing of rubber are
carried out efficiently by the private sector. Among the agencies involved in
rubber development, ORRAF, RRIT and DOAE are the most important for rubber
replanting. Rubber support services are presently coordinated through d Tech-
nical Assistance Coordinating Committee and a Planting Materials Committee
comprising ORRAF, RRIT and DOAE. Rubber policy is primarily determined
through a National Rubber Policy Committee (NRPC) chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture and through the ORRAF Board.
Replanting Program
33.       ORRAF was established in 1960, under the ORRAF Act, to assist
farmers in replanting senile low yielding or abandoned rubber with high yield-
ing varieties. ORRAF administers the Replanting Fund which receives its
income from a general cess levied on rubber exports, supplemented when neces-
sary by government subventions (budgetary funds) and, since 1976, jointly by
World Bank and Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loans. Under the
rubber replanting scheme, ORRAF provides technical and financial support to
smallholders. Replanting assistance is provided in kind (high-yielding clonal
plant material, fertilizers and agro-chemicals) and in cash (payment for
smallholders' labor after completion of specified tasks) over a five and a
half year period.
34.       The ORRAF replanting program is a highly effective means of trans-
ferring new technology to smallholders because it enforces an important
measure of discipline that is unlikely to take place through regular extension
services. Improper husbandry (timing, amounts and types of fertilizer and
chemicals, etc.) during the immature period can jeopardize future yields; and
smallholders, with their lack of capital and high sense of risk aversion, tend
to use lower than optimal inputs without the program. To date the ORRAF pro-



- 11 -
gram has enabled about 350,000 families to improve the quality of their rubber
(on average, more than quadrupling their rubber yieLds). During the Second
Rubber Replanting Project (Loan 2078-TH, 1982-86) about 192,000 ha (averaging
48,000 ha/year) is being replanted and would provide an additional 250,000 tons
of rubber exports worth about US$187.5 million (in 1986 prices) per year at
full-maturity (i.e. by the year 2000). This compares very favorably with the
results of tree crop replanting agencies in other countries. Thailand still
has a high proportion of senile rubber (about 25Z of the rubber area) and has
a comparative advantage for growing rubber as a smallholder crop (low wage
rates, suitable growing conditions, effective private sector), especially in
the Southern Region. The proposed Sixth Five Year Development Plan (1987-91)
provides for ORRAF to continue rubber replanting at the rate of 50,000 ha per
annum and the proposed Project would assist ORRAF to meet these targets.
Lessons from Past Bank Tree Crop Lending
35.       The Bank has provided two loans to the tree crops subsector:  the
First Rubber Replanting Project (Loan 1243-TH) for US$50 million, 1977-82; and
the Second Rubber Replanting Project (Loan 2078-TH) for US$142 million,
1982-86. Both loans were primarily to finance ORRAF's Rubber Replanting Pro-
gram, expanding it from nearly 23,000 ha p.a. in 1976 to the present rate of
nearly 50,000 ha per year. The project performance audit report for Loan
1243-TH reaffirmed the project's expected economic rate of return of 20X but
drew attention to the need to: evaluate whether ORRAF involvement with rubber
smallholders should be extended beyond the present (5-1/2 years) period;
imprnve inter-agency coordination between ORRAF, RRIT and DOAE; reevaluate
rubber replanting financing and cost recovery arrangements; and assess econo-
mic efficiency losses which might arise from the present cess/grant system.
During project supervision of the Second Project and preparation of this pro-
ject, the need to modify ORRAF's organization and management structure became
apparent, especially the need to (a) improve the cost effectiveness of its
operations, (b) improve rubber growing technology for different rubber growing
zones, (c) increase the period of ORRAF assistance from 5½ to 7½ years to
reduce the incidence of premature tapping and (d) revise the replanting pro-
gram to reach a larger number of needy rubber farmers instead of just expan-
ding replanted area. These findings reflect the fact that, while ORRAF is a
well managed, efficient agency, the changing needs of the rubber subsector
require policy and institutional changes to accommodate them. This project
specifically addresses: (a) the difficulties faced by ORRAF in obtaining a
stable and sufficient source of income for its replanting target of 50,000 ha;
and (b) the need to more fully exploit further opportunities for (i) improving
rubber holders' productivity and income, (ii) reducing the cost of its opera-
tions, and (iii) reaching a larger number of smaller/needy rubber growers.
36.       ORRAF'S Finances.  ORRAF's overall financial position, which is
largely dependent on the rubber cess, poses a continuing problem. Cess
revenues, which are based on an export price formula, and rubber export tax
collections have always exceeded the cost of support to rubber replanters.
However, rubber export taxes go directly to general government revenues, and
ORRAF has to depend on the cess as the primary source of funds for its
operations. Cess income exceeded total ORRAF costs until 1974, averaged about
722 of costs in 1975-79, and dropped to 50X in 1980-84. The reduction was



- 12 -
primarily due to unexpectedly low rubber prices and consequent shortfalls in
cess revenues. In addition to the financial problems affecting the replanting
program, funding shortfalls for ORRAF administration have been more acute. By
law, 90Z of cess revenue is aLlocated for the ORRAF Replanting Program, 5% for
ORRAF Administration costs and 5Z for rubber research (through RRIT). The 5%
allocation for administration has covered on average only about one fifth of
total ORRAF requirements. While administration costs can be reduced through
more cost effective operations, a more realistic allocation of cess revenues
for ORRAF administration needs to be introduced.
37.       The uncertainty surrounding cess income during the Second Project
forced ORRAF to cut back its replanting program in 1984 from the planned
50,000 ha to only 36,700 ha. As a result annual production of 30,000 tons of
rubber valued at US$22.5 million at full maturity will be foregone. If
interim funding, particularly for administration, had not been obtained from
CDC in late 1984, the 1985 program would have suffered also. Effective long
term planning and implementation and financial stability and control can only
be achieved by changing the cess formula and cess allocations for ORRAF. Some
steps, which have already been taken, will be consolidated under the proposed
project.
38.       Productivity Improvement.  Because of the long gestation period of
rubber, and the fact that improper husbandry in the early years could under-
mine yields much later, the transfer of improved technology to smallholders
requires particularly intensive husbandry and input support during the imma-
ture period (up to 7-1/2 years). At present, ORRAF's assistance to rubber
smallholders is restricted to the first 5-1/2 years of replanting, after which
DOAE is responsible for technical advice. With handover before full maturity,
a high incidence of early tapping and improper tapping practices occurs with
adverse results on yields. One way to reduce this would be for ORRAF (with
its enforced discipline) to extend its jurisdiction over replanters from 5-1/2
to 7-1/2 years. This initiative, to be introduced under the proposed project,
would also permit one more round of fertilizer to accelerate tree maturity.
It would also enable DOAE to more productively assist smallholders "gradu-
ating" from the replanting program with proper panel opening and adoption of
tapping systems most appropriate for maximizing production and incomes under
farm conditions. In tandem with this initiative is the need for RRIT to
develop technology packages and practices that are more adapted to the various
rubber zones in Thailand. The project would also improve RRIT's Research
Centers and provide technical assistance to assess the relevance of research.
39.       Assisting the More Needy Growers.  The focus on the more needy
rubber growers is required because, while the repLanting program has been very
effective in reaching the average sized rubber holding, large numbers of
small/needy farmers (especially those who cannot afford even to take advantage
of the "grant") have been left out. In addition to assisting such farmers
financially, many can benefit from government assistance in helping them
extend and develop their small rubber plots with adjacent plots presently not
eligible for "grant" financed replanting assistance. Similarly greater
support through group processing and marketing would enable them to improve
the quality and price of their unsmoked sheets. Since ORRAF's replanting tar-
get has stabilized, it can devote greater attention to the more needy rubber
growers *i collaboration with other government agencies, especially DOAE.



-13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Rationale and Objectives
40.       The proposed project would be the third in support of the ORRAF pro-
gram. Continued Bank lending is justified by the need to assist Government in
effecting the difficult policy and institutional changes needed to cater for
the evolving needs of the rubber subsector. Of particular importance is the
need to (a) change the rubber cess formula and the cess allocation to stabi-
lize ORRAF's financial position; (b) improve ORRAF's organization and manage-
ment structure; (c) strengthen the replanting program for the more needy
smallholders; and (d) strengthen technology transfer jointly with RRIT and
DOAE.
41.       The proposed project was prepared by ORRAF with assistance from the
Bank and CDC in 1984/85. Appraisal took place in May/June 1985. Negotiations
were held in March 1986. The Thai delegation was led by Mr. Pong Sono, Deputy
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
42.       The project would consist of:  a four year time slice of ORRAF's
agricultural development program and related field administration, management
and training costs; upgrading of research centers for the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand (RRIT); Department of Agricultural Extension (DOAE)
support of group processing and marketing centers and replanter training; and
technical assistance to improve ORRAF's organization and management structure
and RRIT's adaptive research, base line surveys and linkages between research
and extension. Under the proposed project the ORRAF program would be modified
to (a) ensure more cost effective use of financial and staff resources and (b)
re-orient targets, resources and procedures to reach more needy rubber
smallholders under a special Needy Rubber Smallholder Development Program.
Furthermore, arrangements for better coordination of farmer support among key
rubber development agencies and a clearer demarcation of their
responsibilities would be instituted. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5894-TH,
dated April 23, 1986) is being distributed separately. Supplementary Project
information is provided in Annex III.
Project Description
43.       ORRAF's program from FY 1987-1991 includes:  (a) the continuation of
its successful replanting program (para. 34) at a rate of 50,000 ha of new
replanting p.a.; (b) the continuation and completion of 290,000 ha of replant-
ing already starred; (c) the strengthening of training (including upgrading of
equipment and fellowship assistance for management training of middle-level
manager); and (d) support for ORRAF's field administration and operations.
Assurances were obtained from ORRAF that the training would be carried out and
fellowships administered under a program acceptable to the Bank.
44.       Agricultural support will be improved with extension of ORRAF
support for the replanter from 5½ years to 7½ years, thus permitting an extra
round of fertilizer application and better control of premature initial tap-
ping. Responsibilities for extension and training for various stages of the



- 14 -
replanting of beneficiaries has also been agreed among ORRAF, RRIT and DOAE.
Assurances were obtained from Government that (i) the agreed extension of
ORRAF support and (ii) the agreed demarcation of extension/training responsi-
bilities among ORRAF, RRIT and DOAE, would be confirmed through MOAC issuance
of a ministerial order by December 31, 1986.
45.       The project would also support DOAE's important complementary
support to the replanting program through timely and focussed training (prima-
rily initial tapping and proper tapping systems) of replanters graduating from
the program.
46.       Coordination of support services for rubber would be improved
through the three technical subcommittees under the interministerial National
Rubber Policy Committee (chaired by the Minister of Agriculture). These
subcomittees would include private sector representatives and would be
responsible for resolving issues, and improving and monitoring the services
for: (a) planting materials; (b) extension, training and demonstration; and
(c) rubber statistics. Assurances were obtained that these subcommittees
would be established by December 31, 1986 and maintained thereafter.
47.       To assist the more needy rubber farmers, a program (Needy Rubber
Smallholder Development Program) would be established by December 31, 1986 and
a task force would be set up by NRPC to select target districts on the basis
of farm size and income. The task force would ensure that the following
arrangements would be introduced:
(a) ORRAF would modify its application questionnaires and revise field
staff performance targets and incentives to permit better target
farmer selection. It would also change replanting assistance
criteria to permit limited consolidation of rubber plots. These
changes will not compromise the technical standards of the project.
(b) ORRAF would introduce potential creditworthy clients to BAAC to
determine their eligility for subsistence and supplementary replant-
ing credit.
(c) DOAE would establish and promote group processing/marketing centers
(GPMCs) and set up demonstrations on high level tapping with yield
stimulation in the selected districts.
(d) MOAC would reorient its supplementary assistance fund (from the
Farmers Aid Fund) to irmit the poorer farmers served by the GPMCs
to hold back their ruLaer sheets from daily sale and take advantage
of higher prices from marketing centers in the selected districts.
(e) The Royal Forestry Department (RFD) would issue lease agreements for
replanters in gazetted forest areas if ORRAF un'.ertakes the needed
surveys on their behalf. Since ORRAF has limited capacity to under-
take such surveys extensively, RFD would give top priority to
issuing the "right to farm" (Sor Tor Kor) certificates in the
identified target districts. ORRAF would, under a pilot program in
forest reserves not due for Sor Tor Kor issuance, assist replanters
for a nominal fee to obtain the lease agreements.



- 15 -
This task force would also monitor the progress of the Needy Rubber Smallholder
Development Program. Assurances were obtained that the above task force would
be established by December 31, 1986.
48.       To strengthen RRIT's adaptive research objective to provide recom-
mendations which are more relevant to each rubber growing region, the project
would support the upgrading and expansion of Surat Thani Rubber Research
Center and the Chachoengsao Rubber Research Center through expenditures on
civil works (offices, laboratories and staff housing) and vehicle and
equipment purchase.
49.       To improve the emphasis of adaptive research and RRIT's recommenda-
tions for rubber farmers, technical assistance would be provided to: (a)
review the conduct of adaptive research, its recommendations and usefulness
for extension to RRIT's rubber zones; (b) recommend measures to strengthen the
link between research and extension; and (c) assist RRIT in undertaking and
evaluating base line (aerial photography/satellite imagery) area and yield
surveys. Assurances were obtained that: (a) not later than May 31, 1987,
RRIT would have empLoyed these consultants under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank; and (b) that the consultants reports would be sent to the Bank
for comnent together with an action plan for implementation.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       Total project cost is estimated at about US$263 million of which
about US$72 million (27%) is foreign exchange. Price contingencies amount to
11 of total base costs, at the following percentage rates of price increase
per annum: for local costs -- 3.5% (1986), 5% (1987), 6.8Z (1988), 7% (1989)
and 7.1% (1990); and for foreign costs -- 7.22 (1986), 6.8% (1987-88), 7%
(1989), and 7.1% for (1990). Physical contingencies of 10% have been included
for civil works only; no provision has been made for physical contingencies on
other items because the project supports a time slice of an ongoing investment
program where a large proportion of the operating expenses are known, and the
major sources of uncertainty are not related to physical implementation.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of US$60 million and the CDC financing of
10 million (US$14.5 million) would cover 29% of project costs net of taxes
and duties. The CDC loan and the Bank loan will be passed on by Government to
ORRAF as a grant. The remaining local costs of ORRAF would be covered by
allocation from the Bureau of the Budget (BOB) (US$8.8 million) and ORRAF's
own resources (US$175.3 million), primarily from the cess. The Bank loan
would contain cross default provisions with the CDC loan, including the
provision that the CDC loan become effective by March 31, 1987. The
Government proposes to finance the RRTT and DOAE components (paras. 45, 47(c),
48, and 49) with US$1.8 million from the ongoing National Agricultural
Research Project (Loan 1922-TH), US$550,000 from the ongoing National
Agricultural Extension Project (Loan 1752-TH), and US$2.5 million from local
resources. The Government is seeking external grant financing for US$180,000
in technical assistance for RRIT and ORRAF and US$47,000 for RRIT vehicles at
Chachoengsao, which would reduce the local government contribution or Bank
financing accordingly.



- 16 -
Procurement
52.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
Procurement Method        Total
Project Cost Item                            ICB       LCB      Other      cost
--- (US$ million) --------
OBRAE
Fertilizer and chemicals                  74.0        9.8        3.0     86.8
(35.9)     (4.7)      (1.4)   (42.0)
Vehicles, equipment and materials                     0.8        0.4      1.2
(0.4)     (0.2)    (0.6)
Administrative expenses                                -          -      47.1
(17.0)
Consultancies and training                             -         0.4      0.4
(0.4)    (0.4)
Other development expenditures /b           -          -          -     123.2
-)
Subtotal                               74.0       10.6       3.8    258.7
(35.9)     (5.1)      (2.0)   (60.0)
RRIT /c                                                                      2.4
DOAE /d                                                                      2.5
C-)
Total                             74.0       10.6       3.8    263.6
(35.9)     (5.1)      (2.0)   (60.0)
/a   Figures in parenthesis refer to amount of Bank financing.
7i   Primarily cash "grant" payment, planting material and miscellaneous
costs.
/c   Procurement arrangements specified in Loan 1922-TH.
7T   Procurement arrangements specified in Loan 1752-TH.
53.       Of total compound fertilizer contracts costing US$77.0 million,
about 95% (US$74.0 million) would be procured in bulk by ORRAF through inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
A preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
The following contracts would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB) in accordance with procurement procedures acceptable to the
Bank: (a) rock phosphate fertilizers and agro-chemicals (up to US$9.8 mil-



- 17 -
lion); (b) vehicles and equipment; and (c) civil works.   Other contracts for
vehicles, equipment and materials (including supplies, fuel and spare parts)
costing less than US$30,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$400,000,
would be purchased by prudent shopping on the basis of at least three price
quotations. Urgently needed compound fertilizer (up to US$3 million limit)
could also be purchased by prudent shopping. Consultancies would be selected
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Administrative expenditures (ORRAF field
development staff salaries) are not subject to procurement. For all contracts
estimated to exceed $500,000, prior review by the Bank wouLd be required.
Disbursement
54.       The proposed Bank loan of $60 million would be disbursed to ORRAF as
follows: (a) equipment, vehicles, fertilizers and chemicals -- 1002 of
foreign expenditures, 100Z of local expenditures (ex-factory), and 50X of
local expenditures for items procured locally; (b) Consultants' services and
training -- 100%; and (c) ORRAF's field staff salaries -- 65%. Bank disburse-
ments for salaries of ORRAF field offices and disbursements for vehicles,
equipment and materials with contracto of less than US$20,000 each would be
made against statements of expenditure. The statements of expenditure would
be certified by ORRAF. Supporting documentation will be retained by ORRAF and
made available for review by supervision missions. These statements would be
audited by the Office of the Auditor General.
55.       In order to provide for efficient disbursement of Bank loan pro-
ceeds, a Special Account for the ORRAF component would be opened in dollars in
e bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with an initial
deposit of US$3.0 million. Applications for replenishment of this account
would be submitted quarterly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to
'0% of its initial deposit whichever is earlier.
Organization, Management and Finances
56.       Steps to improve the predictability and adequacy of ORRAF's funding
have been initiated with approval of the draft amendment of the ORRAF Act by
the ORRAF Board, NRPC and, in July 1985, by Cabinet. This amendment
(a) changes the price dependent cess formula to a flat (baht/kg) rate, and
(b) increases the proportion of cess revenue allocated for ORRAF adminis-
tration costs from 5% to 10%. However, since the parliamentary approval
process could take years, the proposed project has been based on the existing
cess formula and allocation system. During the interim period, assurances
were obtained from Government and ORRAF that annual reviews, commencing not
later than October 1, 1987, would be held among the Bank, ORRAF and Government
to ensure and agree on adequate funding. A task force of the ORRAF Board,
comprising representatives from ORRAF, MOAC, Fiscal Policy Office, NESDB, DOAE
and RRIT and farmers representatives, would analyze the problem and make
recommendations for this tripartite review. Government intends, in any case,
to press for the passage of the ORRAF Act amendments during the project period
as a matter of priority and an assurance was obtained from Government that it
would take the necessary steps, by September 30, 1990, to introduce a flat
rate (baht/kg) cess and increase the proportion of cess revenues for ORRAF
administration costs to at least 10%.



- 13 -
57.       To minimize disruption in funding (see para 37) a conservative
assessment of cess revenues has been made, based on projected rubber prices
and historical forecasting experience, and Government has agreed that ORRAF
would continue to be permitted to draw on the interest payments from surpluses
in the replanting account towards administration costs. It is estimated that
at completion of the proposed project (September 30, 1990) ORRAF would require
about $91 million (1986 constant dollars) to maintain and complete immature
rubber replantings underway. Assurances were obtained that, after project
completion, Government would provide ORRAF with the necessary funds to bring
into production ongoing rubber replantings initiated under the project.
58.       The success of the replanting program has been helped by the schedu-
ling of "grant" replanting payments to effect timely input use and yet provide
sufficient incentives for critical husbandry. Assurances were obtained that,
during the project period, Government, ORRAF and the Bank will hold joint
reviews annually, commencing by October 1, 1987, to determine the adequacy of
the "grant" taking into account: (a) the cost of providing fertilizer and
other material inputs in adequate quantities; and (b) the sufficiency of cash
payments for farmers' labor. This review would be undertaken by the proposed
task force of the ORRAF Board for reviewing the adequacy of ORRAF financing
(para. 55).
59.       To improve cost effectiveness, ORRAF has initiated the following
main measures: (a) reduction in ORRAF planting material nurseries (especially
those experiencing large losses and those located in areas where private nur-
series are readily available); (b) elimination of subsidies to defray part of
farmers' cost in transporting fertilizer from ORRAF stockists to the farm; and
(c) improvement of staff productivity through (i) streamlining the applica-
tions and approval process and (ii) increased computerization of replanting
records. Technical assistance to effect (a) and (c) is being financed under
the Second Project (Loan 2078-TH). Assurances were obtained that ORRAF would
complete, under the proposed project, the relevant cost reduction measures
recently initiated through the Second Rubber Replanting Project, as agreed
with the Bank.
60.       To further improve the organizational and management structure of
ORRAF, technical assistance (22 man-months of local consultancy) would be
financed to reassess: (a) the organizational structure of ORRAF; (b) the
links between technical and financial staff; (c) the extent of decentraliza-
tion needed; and (d) information and organizational needs for improving its
planning and monitoring capability including the role of the Planning and
Monitoring Unit. About 9 man-months of additional consultancies would also be
financed to improve ORRAF's socio-economic survey work. Assurances were
obtained that: (a) not later than May 31, 1987, ORRAF would have employed
these consultants under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) that the consultants reports would be sent to the Bank for comment
together with an action plan for implementation.
Monitoring and Evaluaticn
61.       The Planning and Monitoring Unit in ORRAF is responsible for
monitoring the implementation of the rubber replanting program particularly



- 19 -
with regard to the socio-economic impact of rubber replanting, smallholder
incentives and program participation. Its role in the administrative struc-
ture of ORRAF will be reexamined with technical assistance provided under the
project (para. 59).
Accounts and Audits
62.       ORRAF's accounts are audited by the Office of the Auditor General at
the end of each financial year on the basis of guidelines recommended by the
Bank for the Second Tree Crops Project. ORRAF's internal auditing is carried
out by a special unit which is responsible to its Deputy Director for Finance
and Administration. The internal audit unit staff are competent and ORRAF's
accounting and auditing procedures are satisfactory. Assurances were obtained
that ORRAF would: (a) maintain, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, records of its financial and operational activities; (b) have its
accounts for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with appropriate auditing procedures consistently
applied; and (c) submit to the Bank within six months of the end of every
fiscal year during project implementation a certified copy of the auditor's
report including a separate opinion in respect of disbursements made on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Similar assurances, in line with existing
arrangements under present Bank projects with DOA (for RRIT) and DOAE, have
also been obtained for the DOA and DOAE components.
Cost Recovery
63.       The ORRAF "'grant" presently represents about 51% of the market cost
of replanting one hectare of rubber or about 46Z of the farmer's incremental
costs of replanting when income foregone is taken into account. Cost recovery
of the ORRAF "grant" can be viewed in tw-o ways: (a) as a "pension fund" where
beneficiaries have paid into the replanting fund in the form of cess collected
during their pre-replanting years and can now draw on these payments as pen-
sion (the "grant"); or (b) as a loan to be recaptured through the cess (as
rubber taxation) on future production. Under both perspectives, the ORRAF
program gives good cost recovery. For the former, a typical new planter in
the mid 1960s would have approximately paid for the replanting "grant" he/she
would receive starting in the late 1980s under the project (with a discount
rate of only 3%). Similarly, for the latter, the total ORRAF "grant" cost
would, on average, be more than recovered by the cess over the life of the
replant (at 12% interest). In sum, project costs would be more than adequate-
ly recovered by taxation specific to the rubber industry.
Benefits and Risks
64.       The proposed project has many attractive features: its economic rate
of return is adequate (18%) after having taken into account (a) the cost of
administering the ORRAF program, (b) the opportunity cost of replanting senile
rubber land and (c) the cost of distortions to rubber prices implied by the
cess. The investment cost per person directly benefited is low (US$381) and
the number of persons directly benefited is large (estimated at about
113,000 families, most of whom are in relative poverty). Over a period of
35 years, incremental production attributed to the project (4.1 million tons)



- 20 -
would be worth US$3.8 billion (1986 constant prices), virtually all of which
would be foreign exchange earnings. Of the increased employment opportunities
(equivalent to almost 120,000 man years p.a. at full development), at least
half would be for women. The typical ORRAF-assisted replanter (with about
4 ha of land, about half of which is under rubber) will experience income/
capita net improvements at about 43Z (from US$208 to US$298) over the life of
the replant. Group processing and marketing assistance and high level tapping
with yield stimulation supported through DOAE would directly benefit nearly
10,000 needy rubber smallholder families. The secondary effect of improving
incomes of other replanting beneficiaries (e.g. through increased demand for
hired labor) could be almost as large.
65.       The level of risk associated with the project is quite low.  Rubber
prices for 1986 (estimated at US$0.88/kg in constant 1984 terms for RSS 1, New
York) ranks with 1975 as the lowest level since 1940 and long term prospects
are for improvement from this cyclical low to about 1.28 constant 1984 dollars
per kg. The primary implementing agency, ORRAF, is effectively implementing a
large-scale rubber replanting program whose staff are well accepted by
farmers. Related agencies are committed to coordinating their activities more
closely but continued monitoring of the proposed coordination framework would
be required.  The main project risk is the repetition of cess revenue short-
falls and the adverse impact on implementation encountered by the Second Tree
Crops Project because of lower than projected rubber prices (paras. 36-37).
This prospect has been reduced by making a more conservative assumption of
cess revenues during the project period.
Environmental Impact
66.       The project would mainly replace existing old rubber with new rub-
ber, and less than 1OZ of the area to be replanted would need terracing to
prevent runoff and erosion. The scattered nature of the plantings would limit
the impact of such runoff and of dissolved plant nutrients. Intercroppinp
would be confined to the flat and slightly undulating land to minimize risk of
soil erosion. Fertilizers would be applied to avoid depletion of soil nutri-
ents. The relatively small amounts of agrochemicals used would have no
adverse environmental effects.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
67.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 21, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
_  21_                               Page 1 of 6
DDINNO'MIS OF SOCIAL reDucTRoS
Nou Acltoughsheldataedrawn ro sou       w lyjudpdthemosautauiave andrliatshod lbso beuse thbustheysynot bemtma ly
_ampab   beme d the lack of sandilm deluitlam  d conet usd by dilem  cosum in ca4ctg the data. The data ame uethelee usefu to
deib atdetn of magnitude. nditca tmads. aud dasuc  crmain mqo- d4iemnm betwee count
The  teae  oaa (m sIt  amem country poup of the sutbject cou    ad (2) a country group with somewhat highr average tcre then tbe county
group of tsbject  sycpt for -Higs 1mc OIl Eporte" group where Midde Income North Arinca and Mdde Easr machos buof strangr
sociocultuIral  titall    refeonce g pop daoa t avwag ae popdainnwmght artmei na  ror each indicator sdo shown only wben maoty
aftecauuieinagroupadataforthainbcaoSinceh coeaeofountriesamogtheidc depensoth* avilabilityofdata ndisnauniform.
cada mubt  c mdi relating averas. Maoe indiam tor toaer T1hs avee are only usful mcomparg th value af on midmcator at a tiime amng
te coun  and refre ce groupt
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                        Crud BWA Rot (per thomuO-Nuumber of livc births in the year
Tad-Total surface area compnsing land area and inland water;  per thousad of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                      Cr Deah Race (per tho-tund)-Number o' deaths in the year
Agrkulrwni-Estimate of agricultural area used temporily or    per thouand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1933 data.
permanently for cropspastur  market and kitchen prdens or to  Gre *Rp erweu hit-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her normal reproductive peiod if she expeienc
present age-specie fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-NP per caita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calcuated by samte converson method as World   &a PluiAepms.A ulthmd-nulan-
BmkAtha 1981-83basis); 1983da data.A                          F&V*           -Acpnes# AA_o  (thoueu        Annual num-
ber of aeptors of birth-cotrol devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparet                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,   Fam* PIm-Uss (percet e fma-ld uswmeae)-The perccn-
petrokum  natural gas and bydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tap of married women of child-bearing age who are pacticing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita 1960. 1970. nd  whow husbands are practicing any formorcontraception. Women
1932 data.                                                    of child-bearing age are genally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive uae is measured for other age
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                               groups.
Tnd1AleP113ldote. MAd-Yin (thausausi--As ofJuly 1 1960.1970.  FOOD AND NUTRmON
and 1933 data.
_frh.~ hpukdea (                                             lad:x  ond Prvdui Pr Capit (1969-71 - 10)-Index of per
Urhm  opoldn (prcen oftraea)-Ratio of urban to total    capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
populatoan different definitions of urban area may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countrie; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    include primary commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Npa'i.u Ph*tia                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. .offee and tea are
Population in year 2000-Tbe projection of population for 2o00.  excluded); they comprise cereals root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy seprately. Starting with infonnati  on  vegesblks. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
totia population by age and sex, ferlity rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggreate production of each country is based
itentional migration in the base year 1980. these pamwters    on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at fie-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1932 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.           hr Capita Supy ofCalls (pecent efrequire-sexrf-Comput-
Srasinsy populauion-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacmnt lvel  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate-I ). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quanmities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements wer
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was esimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental tenperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                    waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popmdaiton Momenrn-ls the tendency for population growth to   her Capita Supy of Pre  (,grms per dy)-Protein content or
continue beyond the time that replacement-levd fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved that is. even after the net reproduction rate has madied  as above. Requirnments for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year I is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at mplace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
m-t level from year t onward. 1935 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Ap.asi Densiy                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tar) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.                hr Capita harech Supp  fim  Amal ud Pise-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agricultaral land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived fromn animals and pulses in grams per day: 196 1-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Puoltl.u Age Structe (percesb)-Children (0-14 years). work-   CAd (qes 1-4) Deat Rare (per theasaud)-N umber of deaths of
ing age (I 5-64 years), and rd    (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Populutln Gr.mnh Rare (percensrj--otael-Annual growth rates of  from lifc tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960.70. and 1970-83.  HEACLH
Peoplatlen Growt Rare (perceartA-erm-Annual growth rates      L4ie Expeceswy s Bir  (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



22                                              ANNEX  I
Page 2 of 6
at the time of of its birth wer to stay the sane throughout its lile:  A*p-reacher Ratio - primarr. and secondar -Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primery and  xcondary levels divided by numbers of
I4w MArtaBty Rar (per shiussd)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding evels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
A wnte S%fe AfWa  (porn of p b.h-             X     md        Nsueqe Cws (per Seeaw- pepulio)-Passenger cars corn-
rwal--Number of people (totaL urbat and nanl) with reasonable  prie motor cars scating less than eight pewons excludes ambul-
aas to safe water supply (mdudes treated surfoce watem or     ances hearses and military vehicles.
untrated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Radio ReIWS (pe rhesandpopuatieui-AlI types of receivers
boole springs and sanitary wels) as percentages of ti rspec-  rot radio broadcasts to geeral public per thousand of population:
tive populations In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  exdudes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 mcters from a house may be  ---te I         o 
locate not nore han 20 metrs frm a huse m  be ~registration or radio sets was in effect; data for recet years may
as being within reaotable acce  of that house. In rural areas  not be mpamble since most countries abolised licensmng.
reasonable seccss wvud imply that the housewife or members of the
houselbold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  lRo    VeRal   per thousand popum_TV  rxecivers for broadest
in fetching dhe family's water needs.                         to genra public per thousand popuaion excludes unlicensed TV
in fcwhing the familfs water needs.                           mceivers in countries and in years when rgsration of TV sets was
Acce sto Ectea Disposa (per'ctw- of ppalidtl -titofal. 'rw-*    in effect.
ad ral-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by *n                              dlea
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  wsp  C           pe rumpeu           )ows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposaL with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaperC- defined as a
without treatment. of human excezta and waste-watr by water-  perodical publicaton devoted pmnarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -dailyf if it appears at less four tinies a week.
PtplArl.e per PAysPam-Population divided by number of prac-   Cmewi A _ sEa  AtteAaw  per Cara pr Yea-Based on the
tusing physicians quaified from a medical school at university lewd.  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
Popufaiu per Nwsiu Persow-Population divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxilaries.                      LBOR FORCE
Popmhu per HNsa  Bel-oat, wha, ad sptilation                  Toa Labs Frc (rhmamdEn-Economically active persons. in-
(total. urban. and rurl) divided by their respective number of  cludig armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in pulic andprivae.  n and specializd  students. etc.. covering population of aU ages Definitions in
hospitals and rehabiitation centers. Hosptals ar esbshmnts    various countries are not comparabk 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemanently staffed by at kast one physician. Establbshments prov-  Fask (peitarj)-$rnale labor force as percentage or total labor
iding principally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals  force.
however. indude health and medil centers not permanendy staffed  X,iere (percearl-Labor force in fanning. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurns midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acconunodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical acsities.t  (percetr)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissiaw poer Hospisf hi-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
dischargcs from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Phuieiaieu Rate (p s-eabatoale. -   djfm-4e-articipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. trial and female labor force
Aerae Size of HasekAM (per  pgr IsJ_ehoMr-atd4 wham           as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
adrend-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These arc based on lLOas
living quarers and their main mcals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the housdeold for statistical purpose   long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Averae Nuw-er of Pleros per Roo_-eA   wham, ad &<ral-         Economic Depewdeac, Rai-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avenge number of persons per room in aOl urban, and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dweOlings, respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PerceaWe of DiedNgs wirt Elcridrp-rotal wham, ad rura--       Pceurqre of Torat Dipabl lwe  (bhe in cash ad kiJdj-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adued &aoems Race                                             The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prmna  swhool - toua. mak anrd  r    Sfen'ak-o  totaL mak and  levets and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of aUl ages at the primary level as percentages of  EstivaedAhudatre Povery  cw    L"eeld LISS per ceaj-arean
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rur-Absolute poverty income level is that incomne level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  E prtld Redarv Poverty lwceae Leel (USS per cqpaa j-war
education. gross enrollment may excced 100 percent since some  ad rat-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the countrv. Urban klvel is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seoudarey school - tot, mae and femae-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education  quires at kast four years of approved pri-  Esmared Popuasiem Beow Absltre Poverty 1w-cow Level (pr-
mary instruction provides general. vocationaL or teacher trainirg  eatj-wrha  and rual- Percent of population turban and rural
instructions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are genrally eclduded.
Vocational Erroilmen  (percent of secoindry--Vocational institu-        Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industriaL or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projctons Department
indepndently or as deparunents of seondary institutions.                              June 1985



23_                                                   ANNEX I
T A  b L  I 3P                                               Page 3  of  6
TRALANl                - SOCUL IU I>CAT  O DATA UNSET
TNIAU.i                              RZPSACNCE GROUPS CIIIZG1TRD AVRRAGI) 1.!
MIST                      (olr mWan KSTh ) lb
~~     £9Th&  .~Rruw            NICoLE imcam            NICOLE floWl
19 -1A     1974L  Zn,unlk ArIU        U     Ancnc           IAT. AIRICA 6Ca
AL (cMMMAN,I. M)
TOTAL                              516.0        514.0      516.0
AIUCILUIL                          12R.l        141.2      192.8
C       CP aUs CRO)                      ..         ..        420.0             1011.1                    1675.9
(itocRam or o.L qcvsuT)             4.0        350.0       2h5.0              5bb.6                    n3.0
7QIII  AND VL    IS=CS2r
OPLAXMOND-SA   CIRWUUS)  26867.0    36370.0    491*9.0
U    rSo8 POPULTIU    or 0ToL)      12.5        13.2        17.9               35.9                      7.,
POPULsETON Pfl03W10
PWUPMATI0  DI  All  2000 (IMLL)                           65.1
ITAfOa  rPorTUM CILL)                                   100.0
OPLT         Mrf                                           1.6
roroaar        -                                            1.
PO?ULA?TUM 3551W
PU SQ. M1.                        52.3        7u.S       936.6              35b.9                      48.0
PU SO.  . ArR!. LSD              209.6       257.7       250.2             1591.2                      91.1
ropuLATim st srncnz    (2)
0-14 U1S                         ".6         £6.2         36.1              38.2                      38.5
15-66 tS                          sz.5        50.7        59.1               57.7                     57.1
65 AND AOVE                         2.7         3.0         3.2               3.5                        .2
POPULAT CROWM SATE (2)
TOTAL                               2.5         3.0         2.3               2.3                       2.*
URAN                               4.6          3.6         4.0               4.1                       3.8
c1D  DIn RATE (PE  moos)            63.9        38.5        27.0               30.1                      30.9
cmi nctsn am  (PER TINS)            14.7        10.5         8.0                9.4                       6.0
GRaO   PSUICTIP RATE                  3.2         2.7         1.8               1.9                       2.U
9illILY PlAInIm
ACePTOS. AMOIAL (T11NUS)           ..         202.9 Jc   1b3.3.
USRIS CZ O  HAUS WOEIP)             *          15.0       59.0               5b.5                      45.3
FOOD AND NEcn
ZIC OF FMO  PRO. E  CAnTs
C1965-71-100)                       92.0       100.0       138.0              124.4                     1)9.0
rat cs.PrA SUPPLY OF
CALOUIS CZ OF ISmUR US)           91.0       9n.0        105.0              15.7                      113.2
P208KM  (C0RM5  PU DAY)           40.0        .7.0        67.0               60.3                      69.4
OF MM5 AMIGNAL AND P3USE          11.0        15.0        15.0 Id           14.1                      34.2
iLD (AS 1-4) DEAlT  TZ              12.9         9.1         4.0                7.2                      4.6
LPC EXPECT. Ai NIR  (YInRS)         52.3        58.2        63.1               60.6                      64.8
PAI MMRT. RMTS (PU LOS)            103.0        74.5        50.0               64.9                      59.7
AMES TO SAFE WCu (-101)
TOTAL                              ..          17.0        63.0 It           46.0                      05.3
ORB.                                          60.0         bS.0 /1           57.6                      78.5
SAL                                ..         10.0        63.0 T             37.1                       4.2
ACCSS TO  CYm   DISOSAL
CZ OF POPeLATioN)
TOrAL                               *-         17.0       46.0 1.            50.I                      5b.3
uN                                  ..        65.0        64.0 l.            5z.v                      73.4
20k.                                ..0                   41.0 ie            44.I                      25.5
POPUILAn PEE PiTSICIAN            7900.0      8430.0      71W.0 it           7751.7                    1909.7
POP. IER MUSING PERSON            4830.u A   7030.0       2400.0             244.6                      b0.2
Po. MM HOSPITAL Ia
TOrAL                            1380.0      89O.0       600.0 lh          1112.1                     362.u
UAN                              260.0 A    180.0        530.0 7            651.4                     422.0
RUSAL                          21420.0    13860.0        1280.0 7T;        2598.9                    2710.7
AIiSSIOII Pl! DSPITAL  E              ..        31.0        44.8 /b            41.1                      27.5
HOSIN
A£9AC4  SUZ OP HDUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.5 s      5.8          5.5 hlb
DROM                      5 ~~s3      5.8         5.5 /b...
RURAL                              5.                      5.5s l
AVERAGE NO. w PERcSOu/SIR
TOtAL                              ..          ..          2.4 /h
URBS                                ..         ..          2.2 7h
REAL                                ..         ..          2.4h.
PCCTACE OF DHIELLI1S 511W Ml.
TOTAL                              ..          18.9
URBAN                                         86.1
RURAL                              ..          9.0



_  24-                                              ANNEX  I
Page4 of 6
T A   L E  34                                    PACE 2
THALnAD               -SOCIAL INDICATORb DATA SREST
TRWALAND                           RCERECI  GROUPS (UCICEGCD AMERAU=) /
MOST                    (MOST EECENT ESTIMATE) .Li
RECENT          MIDDLE INCONE          MIDDLE DNCO
l960o!±    1970&!! lESTIMATE&     ASIA A PACIFIC         LAT. ArMCA A CAR
ADJUSTED ENROLLNIUT RATIOS
PRIMAKT:  TOTAL                  83.0       83.0       96.0             100.7                    106.7
MALE                  U8.0       86.0        98.0             104.4                    108.5
FEKALE                79.0       79.0        94.0              97.2                    104.6
SECOIDArT TOTAL                  13.0       17.0       29.0              47.8                     ".2
KlE                   16.0       20.0        30.0              50.6                     42.7
1BLCA                 10.0       15.0        27.0              44.8                    4.9
VOCATIONAL (S OS SECONDARY)        19.1       22.3       20.9              18.4                     13.3
PDPIL-TEAIE  RATIO
RIKMU                            36.0       35.0        25.01            30.4                     29.9
S9CODARY                         20.0       16.0        23.0  d          22.2                     16.7
PASSEER CAIS/TIIOUSAOD POP          1.8        5.1        6.3 A            10.1                     46.0
RADIO  BCEIVs/OUAIDS POP            6.1       76.3       149.2             172.9                   328.3
TV RCIIIRS/BOUSANID POP             2.2        6.6        17.2             58.5                    112.4
NESPAPS  ("DAILY  LIEAL
LSZ-) CIUCULTON
PER THOUSAND POPULATION           10.6       23.3        53.5             65.3                     81.1
CINEA ANMAL ATTEDNCRCAPTA           ..         0.4         ..               3.4                      2.4
TOTA  LU FORCE (TWOS)           13772.0    16958.0    24618.0
FMALE (ERNBM)                    48.4       46.8        45.4             33.6                     23.6
AGRICILTURZ (PERCENT)            84.0       80.0        76.0 J            S2.2                    31.4
INDuSTRY (PERCET)                 4.0        6.0        9.0              17.9                     24.3
PARTICIPATION RAUE (PVRCENT)
TOTAL                            51.3       46.6        49.8              38.9                    33.5
KALE                             52.7       49.3        53.7             50.8                     51.3
FMALE                            49.8       43.9        45.3             26.8                     15.9
ECONIC  D R            RATO         0.9        1.1        0.8               1.1                      1.3
PIC   OF PRIVTE IICEH
RSCEIED sr
EIGEEST 52 or 11011s             21.8 I     23.8       23.0               .
HI1S 20Z OP SOUSHEOLDS          50.9  j    49.7 1     49.8              4 4.O
LOWEST 20S or HOURSUOLDS          6.2        6.1 T      5.6 w             6.4
1LlEST 40S oF HOUS#RDLDS         14.9       15.9        15.2             15.5
-            ABSOLUTE 1O93FT! INCOME
LEVL (US PE CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..                   159.0h             ..                     288.3
RtAL                              ..         .         106.0 A           151.9                   185.3
WTIMATED RELATIu   POVERTY  C
ILVL CUSS PUR CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         .         115.0 4          177.9                    519.8
RURAL                             .,         ,,        l11.0             164.7                   359.7
ESTIMTD POP. BMW ABSOLUTE
POVERT INONA  LEVEL (C)
AN                                ..         ..        15.0              23.5
RURAL                             ..         ..        34.0 A            37.8
NOT AVAIABLE
Mr APPLICABLE
OrTES
/a  The grotp averegee foe each Indtcator am populatioa-eighted aritzbtc eman. Coragp of countriea
ag the Indicators depend oan avalability of date and La noet  for_m
Unles otebrwiwe noted, "Dta for 1960" raefr to any yer between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; end data for "Most Recnt Eutimt." betwem 1981 and 1983.
Ie  Goermnmt progrFm ony; /d 1977; h 1980; If 1979; I  1962; Ab 1976; /L 1972; IL 1968; Ak 1978.
Jung, 1985



25 A5..I
lupolatim     t 30.700 jmd.-194. toamamiat)
alp VW capita. U3iff (19364)
UIAIUI - X3ONO1c 11mC32013
(on3 aillam at                                                                            mar. oil CDP
aP war e|st |current Priem
eIdroat          TMie.)    4   ammi lr  . 4) fa e     at prrm           lat  _tbat 7riee  A    t earrt dries.)
lodtt ter                  IMS1913     19f40.   1970.7   197         I98-6b       913-0b    1U6D       3U70        9 *      U00      19113/
MATIOPI ACCOOM
CGro      tic I   et             303.3           6.4       6.3       7.6       3.3         5.3       160.0    100.0    300.0    300.0    100.0
i=tm                            7.373          3.3       3.3       3.2       3.6         2.6        39.6      23.3      11.5      26.2     19.3
ZUiAU-tt                       10.990         113        7.3      11.4       3.3         6.1        13.7      25.3      24.e     27.U      2n.3
larie.                        20,27            9.0       7.3       7.9       6.4         6.3        61.5      46.4      Al.7     46.3      32.2
eoa  ,t1a                        30.931          7.3       7.0       7.3       4.4         4.7       133.7      713.7     79.3      V13.3    79.7
Groaw iawae   t                   3.932         13.6       3.6       3.2       0.3         6.3        13.7      26.2      23.4     27.9      23.0
exports of GM                     9.437         30.3       3.6      13.4       1.3         3.1        17.4      16.7      19.1      23.0     24.3
7_IM. of cm                     10,483          13.9       3.7      10.3       1.3         6.4        13.9      21.5      23.7      31.1     27.0
Or.. natioaal .awi-               7.495         13.7       4.1       3.5       1.1         9.2        14.1      21.5      20.7      20.7     19.3
CAmpoaltiLa. of
196    1970    11E73 (19110   1(1831   399/b
7.082          5.3       9.0      14.4       6.4         6.2      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
PrImE7                         4.405           6.2       6.6      10.0       0.1         3.7       97.3   00.3   77.3   60.2   62.2    58.3
Ibaufactare.                    2.677         29.2      20.9      25.1       0.9         9.2        2.2   19.3   22.7   39.13   37.a    41.7
. _rCdi11  imort.                9.383          11.3       3.3      10.3       1.2         4.e      100.0  100.0   ln0.0  100.0  100.0    0n.0
7.d                               39           4.1      -2.7      11.9       3.6         6.5        9.6     5.4    4.4    3.4    3.3    3LI
petrolaen                      2.111          11.1       3.0       8.7      -4.7         1.6       10.9    8.e    22.1   31.4   22.3    31.3
Machinry S .quiu..t             2."4          16.1       3.9       7.6       3.3         5.3       23.3   36.1   33.1   23.3   21.5    31.5
Otb.                            6.437         10.1       1.0       9.3       4.7         4.9       34.2   49.7    37.7   41.7   47.3    53.2
3973       1977        1979        160         193l        1"2         19          194         1913
PRIM
Up  Iator                                     62.6        70.8        83.9       10.O        10.0        111.6       11s.2      316.6       1183.
-abama tat                                    20.4        20.4        20.3        20.3        21.5        23.0        23.0        23.6       27.0
1Ott pile.  fIne                              67.3        68.3        14.9       100.0         9.3        91.1        93.7       93.1        17.9
Impat pIe, loam                               36.2        63.9        131.3      100.0       113.1       316.3       112.6       11.9       116.4
Tatum of ti. L                               113.7       103.6       104.3       100.0        66.3        77.0        63.2       132.0       73.4
_ s of Cw
1960            gm7            3973            196             1933            19631.
iuJ  vmuz /
Onraut tyEm                                        13.6            33.1            11.2            14.0             13.4           15.2
Current euped itia                                 10.6            32.6            1 1.            13.3             13.1          13.9
Sp_  (4) or deficit (-+ 43.0                                       +1.2           *1.4            40.3              0.3           -1.7
capital a    iLtre                                  4.3             3.1             3.4             3.9              3.6           4.4
Foraij riminalg                                     0.2             0.1             0.1             0.2            n0.             n.9
1u60-7n           1970-73            1973-eo            19e38/.              13-0b
oum 5
CW   rat  rate (S)                                  1.4                6.2                6.9                 3.1                 3.1
cup par capita zRow  rat  (1)                       3.2                3.4                4.6                 2.8                 3.3
ICOR                                                2.1                4.0                3.L                 *.2                 *.s0
Iorlml aViapo tate                                  0.29               0.23              0.21                0.16                 0.36
Impact eLattdrty                                    1.7                0.6                1.3                 0.6                n0.7
/a Prlediua.ry.
/b Pojected.
Ic  Central nowromt t017.
April 17. 1966



W- r
_26 _
0pLsae        * 3       (.73 - (md1-31. chmdf)
_p0     iat1     m8m  (.13)
UILAU  - WALMaN  OFP FATHOM. 5KTW1. CAPTAL AD BU3?
(goS .1111. at curtaut Iua
Acotal                        -At.                                     Pro lectd
odiacor                                 1 470    1976    977    1 76      979    LiO       l9en     33W2 13            9     *          1A        136i7    pen
twu  of toa     'meafctar
_ecv_ma                             3.,06   3.690   6.129  4.676   4.16   1.191    3,971    9.167    9.000    9.163    9.61   I2.626   11.911   17.11
Of ebieht Ihrcb1.a f...b.             66    2.99   1.456   4.043   3.23  6  .449    6.66    6. 33    6.30         7.237    7.062    7."7    6.929   11.213
rorta   go0dea  _     mf__actet
oarw_                              -1.360  -1.692  -3.0"6  -3.39   -3,123 -9.9_     -10.711  -_.29  -1.3117 -131j,3   -30.670  -133219  -2.9   -I0.031
ef  icbs  Ihucbandim  f.o.b.       -1.141 -1.143  -6.2'?  -6.13 -4.7m7 -41.32   -4920   -G.A06  -10.1.?  -10.263  -9.133    9.9111 -30.977  -16.017
It.  tact_ macm  tlew abroad             23     -62      -9     -264   -680    -610      -99    -1.057   -1.022      -63      -392     -2       -not  -1.117
be tinteru                               69      23      Ad       40      6n     In       122       303      277      176      140      333       161      3a3
Ommm   mein.t 3s2mg.                   -230   -460  -107  -1.         -2.064  -2.223   -2.,61    -1.006   -2,371   -2.113  -1."6   -1.06   -1.119   -1.230
ftIe.S  direct 1__n                      63       79     106S             33    le7       292       139      36       6l1      123      331       30,31    17
EST L_p  (at_)                           *2     268      3"      670   1.413   1.66s    1.631    1.327    1.23U    1.317       old    1.171      97a    1.112
Oft"al                                 21      109     16l     290     6       26       621 6U     0       861      6s&      A6       66       637       302
.oigns A                                in     119     163     36"    910   1.Off    3.010        67       417      6613     253      127      1l9       lEn
Otborr Co - a                            91      219    760      762   1.160      -S    3,26        30       66       173      3317       2        12      I7"
C- ladlamla. Iacr-a.e)                 62     -        93    -369   -36l    116        -60   e420          119      I       ls -133          -193      '176
_K r_au.aeieaal tinging                 906   1.90    1837   2.353   3.1W7   3.063    2.376    2.632    2.333   2.36    2.771    2.912   .1.3s i         1.nQ9
_-ueuacatm3tof            i               6 e x e r                                &         3        3   1        *             I        1         I        2
i           CWIL AL  11M
c_ae_Sl                                I  11    52     7m      314     242     230      223       216      250      222      381      639      St7       u2
UAC                                 It       63               NG 6   173     176      In        132      206      210      331      62       w0        399
rs                                    -       7       *        3       *       3       23        19       17       I I      30        A        6         I
o*-a                                  -       -       39      62      60      69        11      66        27       32       60       27       t1         2
_e_9m aL   lo~                        Ion      67    3sn    113   1.3 16  2.134    2.e20    1.910    2.033    2.656    3.621    2.417    2.3l3    2.16e
OfticIl eapet credits                 7        -      1z       -       -       3        0        9o      216      3"       133      1s13          11  137
t| 19                                        63      61      131     119     163      29       370      623       300      26       261      234      312
413r  mLellaceslL                     2      66      33       66      16     o3        64       102      106     t33       132      167      190       26
Priace p_bW4   .erilsba              17    lo1       16      611      62      n9      33       633       322     606       233     132       I3       163
Primut           I  a               163     277      369     373     M    1.027       79       6m       96      1.617    1.037    1.66     3.461    1.3"
Teal  e_  di _eam.ca                  Ie       319    a3   1.216   2.033   2.156    2.211    2.123    2.2e3     2.    20,e          2.62    2,7ns    3.711
BgM      Bak had tons)
dl.bw3 ei                             120      21   1.139   1.320   2.812   6.126    3.169    6.168   7.?.       7. 9    3.133    3.70n      .2W     11.387
Officila                            291     672      "S   1.236   1.671  27315    2 .66       3.430    6.213    4.763    3.422    6.0"    6.72n    3.517
Priut.                               17      1s      226     36     161   1.112    2.2        2.67    2.733    2.79      2.7`7    2.629    2.S13     2.,30
outatmadlv4 a" die3.ruod            U12      i3s     3o0      il1  1.261   1.703    2.0"    2.296    2.653    3.163    1.619    6.14       6.776     9.36
Total deft outcadt. .5_
dl4i_yad                             710   1.41    1.*09   2.,71   *,073   3.131    7.26     3.436    9.637   10.927   11.137  31.31 l    1.987   17,121
Tondt.hoaed detc                       Ila     4n   1.364   1.309   2.161   .nnl0                3.033    3.512    1.6    30032   2.613    2663 ^ 1    1,72
Total macuic p.p7ts                   162      376    642      P32    '62   1.226    1.125    1.S93    1.768    2.23       2.225    2.4a    2.76i    1,.29
Interast                             16      307     126     I90     122     303      686      697       763      "3       913      977    I.nl,0   1.1n
Foyan_  s- 2 o3tm  of good.
'_6 m tactor _e_.ccaa               36.6   31.6   31,0 n    36,1    16.9   121.      15.6    13.9       19.2     21.5     21.6     21.3     71.1    3T7.
A_.Sa_  TIterest Nato OaK.. tan.
(CZ  IC                                 6.f     7.6    7.n       f,6     7.4     9.1     30.2      *.2       6.3      3.7      9.       'n      7T.        7,6
Otectal                                9.4     7.9     6.1     3.6     1.6     6.3      7.4       6.7      6.1      7.9        -        -         -        -
Privata                               6.n      7.1    8.1      3.9    31.ns    13.6     3.4     In.6       3.,      9.6        -
4=Low amaturity goS LOOPS
(years) IC Z31.'   17.1   14.5   17,3    17.0    16.6                                    36.7      19.1    20.1      17.2    17.0      16,1      12.9     11.7
0tfteI                               39,6   20.6    14.6    21.1    22.6    21.1       22.4     21.6      22.6    23.0
Prrt_e                               11.2      7.1     7.0     9.6    10.n     8.6      9.3      11.6     10.7     30.1
e,a rp 3        CZ)
!1RenoMM    tot" Dug                 22.4    13.6    T7.1    31.3    11.9    33.&      12.9      13.3     17.1     17.0     17.3    136.9     I.4    31.7
E13 dibutommts/total sreo,
dia3.t*aaut                         9.1    11.1    1m.n      N.      7.n     6.1    13.0       17.6    13.3      10.2    12.0   ' .1   ' .6            0,6
118 debt  _avLce/total debt
Ger-Ic,                            13.3     Q,4    100 n      3      6 .9    6.3      6.6      6.3       3.9      3.2     32.5     13.6      M?       11.2
10. ODU/Itetl D0                        -     n07      1.0    n.9      0.r    0.6       0.7      0.6      0.9       0.9 ,     .9      0.9 '     ,n      n.0
ID0 dlabton_mItotal groe.
disahawAmue                           -      I.1     1.1    0.6   ,n 7        .2      0.9      0.9       0.     0.37     n.&6     0.71    n017    n.o7
IDA debt _wvtceltotAl debt
aar-Ice                               -     ft.s    n0    n,n        nn       2.0n    0.2      0.0      0.0   n0.4U   n0n0    n4.0    n4             n,
Am Z of debt outtanding at *ad of 1903
Ibtow.ty .ttuctot of debt outc stdinl
Principal due Ithln 5 7ear.                                                                     66.n
tIacIpol d_ 6itbIn 10 TO&TV                                                                    87.9
Internet .wtutor of debt eatetandlix
Interest de alttuo fELrat "or                                                                   7.9
/-  I   to cbD_ le c_la*-Elattol. projected data for ert. MLT lon.' includo   of the ceaowy  Other capttal.'
7W  'Othr caidtal' laclada  oat ue of 1Hr  funds and mt flow of short-toer  capLtGI-
7- InteciZ dita do s aee amtlude nouuoerntaad Pr_Iate debt.
Aetll 17. 196



_ 27 _                              ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount (S million)
Loan or                                                               less cancellations
credit                                                                                Undis-
number   Year            Borrower               Purpose             Bank       IDA    bursed
Fifty-six loans and five credits fully disbursed                  1,933.12   93.50
1630     1978  Kingdom of Thailand      Irrigation                   17.50     -         2.7n
1638     1979  Kingdom of Thailand      Urban transportation          7.98     -         0.54
929     1979  Kingdom of Thailand      Agriculture                    -     25.0n       8.56
1752     1979  Kingdom of Thailand      Agriculture extension        40.00     -        11.48
1787     1980  Kingdom of Thailand      Irrigation                   Rn.o0     -        44.40
1852     1980  Electricity Generating  Power                         72.00     -         4.40
Authority of Thailand
1863     1980  Provincial Waterworks   Water Supply                  40.00     -        22.q2
Authority
1870     1980  Kingdom of Thailand      Housing                      24.50     -         3.28
1871     1980  Provincial Electricity  Rural electrification         75.00     -        13.47
Authority
1889     1980  Kingdom of Thailand      Inland waterways             53.n0     -        3n.65
1918     1980  Kingdom of Thailand      Ports                        47.00     -        44.71
1922     1980  Kingdom of Thailand      Agriculture research         30.n0     -        22.72
2000     1981  Electricity Generating  Power                        100.00     -        37.08
Authority of Thailand
2022     1981  Kingdom of Thailand      Irrigation                   57.00     -        43.01
2035     1981  Kingdom of Thailand      Provincial roads             32.00     -         6.13
2078     1982  Kingdom of Thailand      Tree crops                  142.00     -        24.31
2143     1982  Telephone Organization  Telecommunications           125.10     -        33.18
of Thailand
2178     1982  Kingdom of Thailand      Education                    52.70     -        31.24
2184     1982  Petroleum Authority of  Liquified petroleum gas       80.00     -        37.n7
Thailand
2198     1982 Kingdon of Thailand       Agriculture                  17.nO     -        15.1n
2311     1983  Kingdom of Thailand      Provincial roads            100.0o     -        75.73
2312     1983  Provincial Electricity  Rural electrification         30.60     -        19.45
Authority
2402     19R4  Kingdom of Thailand      Rural development            50.n0     -        16.69
2407     1984  Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand  Mining                       59.1)    -         58.86



ANNEX II
28-                                  Page 2 of 3
Amount (S million)
Loan or                                                                 less cancellations
credit                                                                                  Undis-
number   Year            Borrower                 Purpose            Bank        IDA    bursed
2440     1984  Kingdom of Thailand       Agriculture                  35.00      -        33.36
2520     1985  Kingdom of Thailand       11rban development           27.50      -        27.5n
2548     1985  Bangchak Petroleum Co.  Refinery                       85.00      -        85.00
2639     1986  Petroleum Authority       Energy
Thailand                                            33.00       -       33.00/C
Total                                                  3,446.10   118.50    806.56
of which has been repaid                               458.79      3.98
Total Now Outstanding                                  2,987.31   114.52
Amount sold /b                       91.23
of which has been repaid           64.no                27.23
Total Now Held by Bank and IDA                         2,960.08   114.52
Total Undisbursed                                        798.no      8.56    806.56
/a  The statue  if the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/c  Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC IWVESTMENT
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amounts ($ million)
Year     Company                       Type of business                Loan  Equity  Total
1959     Concrete Products and         Cement and construction          0.3      -      0.3
Aggregate Co., Ltd.           materials
1964/1971   Industrial Finance Corpora-  Development finance                -      0.4     0.4
tion of Thailand (IFCT)       company
1969/1976/  Siam Cement Croup             Cement and construction         28.3    4.4    32.7
1978/1980/                                  materials
1985
1977     Mutual Fund Company Ltd.      Money and capi:al market          -      0.3     0.3
1977     United Sugar Terminal Ltd.   Food and food processing          2.5    0.2      2.7
1978     Siam Commercial Bank          Small- and medium-scale          2.0      -      2.0
industries
1979/1980/  Bangkok Glass Industry Co.   Class containers                  9.9    0.4    10.3
1983       Ltd.
1979/1981/  Siam City Cement Co. Ltd.    Cement and construction         113.4    4.7   118.1
1985                                     materials
1979     Thai Orient Leasing Co.       Capital market                    -      0.1     0.1
Ltd.
1983     Sea Minerals Limited          Mining                            -      0.6     0.6
1983     National Petrochemical        Chemicals & petrochemicals        -      0.4     0.4
Corporation
1983     Thailand Tantalum             Mining                          53.5    3.4    56.9
1984     World Aquaculture             Food and food processing         2.7    0.6      3.3
1984     Southeast Asia Venture        Money & capital market            -      1.0     1.0
Investment (Seavi)
'986     Hasbhumi Limited              Mining                            -      /a      /a
Total Cross Commitments                                    212.6   16.5   229.1
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                              155.0    4.1   159.1
Net held by the corporation                                 57.6   12.4    70.0
Total Undisbursed (including participant's portion)         82.6    2.8    85.4
/a $45,969.



- 30 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
THIRD RUBBER REPLANTING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Information Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  15 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:  ORRAF, DOAE and BRIT with
assistance from FAOICP and the
Bank.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:  January 1984
(d)  Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission:  May 1985
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:  March 1986
(f)    ..nned date of effectiveness:  October 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Government has agreed that:
(a)  It would take the necessary steps to introduce a flat rate (Baht/kg)
cess and increase the proportion of cess revenues for ORRAF admini-
stration costs to at least 10Z by September 30, 1990 (para. 56).
(b)  After project completion, it would provide ORRAF with the necessary
funds to bring into production ongoing rubber replantings initiated
under the project (para. 57).
(c)  The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC), through the
issuance of a ministerial order by December 31, 1986, would confirm
the extension of ORRAF's jurisdiction over the replanting benefi-
ciary from 5-1/2 years to 7-1/2 years and the allocation of respon-
sibilities for extension, training and demonstration, among ORRAF,
RRIT and DOAE (para. 44).
(d)  The National Rubber Policy Committee (NRPC) would by December 31,
1986:
(i) establish three Technical Subcommittees (para. 46);
(ii) establish a task force to set up the criteria for selecting
target districts/subdistricts for the Needy Rubber Smallholders
Development Program (NRSDP), monitor progress and implement the
NRSDP arrangements (para. 47).



- 31 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
Government and ORRAF have agreed that annual reviews, commencing not
later than October 1, 1987, would be held among the Bank, ORRAF, and Govern-
ment to (i) ensure and agree an adequate funding for ORRAF (para. 56) and
(ii) determine the adequacy of the replanting "grant" (para. 57).
ORRAF has agreed that:
(a) It would carry out and admir.ister the fellowship for management
training under a program acceptable to the Bank (para. 43).
(b) It would complete, under the proposed project, the relevant cost
reduction measures recently initiated through the Second Project
(para. 59)



|&P   __00                  flIo                          10 1JP                               CHINA
r,rY'                                                                      1l I-                      1.<
(                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BURMA
-200
* ~~~~~~~~~CingRi2'-THAILAND)  \
20°  §                                                                     f<Crlang Ri |  7|  # ) ., \  *DEMOCRATIC)
-E  /3 A \   ,>,      2                                                 ]1-azrAtt  )*  -. \KAMPUCiEA (
ae Hong Son                  Phiyao                        LAO   PEOPLE'S  DEM. REP                         ^cj  ji '-! VI ETrA
Chiang Mai                        Nan
Kr'         ~~~~~Lamphtin,    /                                           S   b                               .< S,7r, f
A1                    LamnpaTo On~re/N 
;INONESIA,/SNGAPOE
'<                                                                         on Kha /tW  ,<,                           SINGAPORENhv
S  '-b t < / 11'1 l~u                                                                        'k
1    - t8NawnhonS4wdn    (             S         N~~~~~~Lou  d  RTh              akhTX  uon   f
1  4a : X __-fg'- - taad:x +                                                  ±
Palhanomfl  *
0   R    .                                                ako
ae  t Tak1-                 >                                        ~.-f



Kancha  Thaur            r P
-140                    '                                                                                                                                     14  txq-4 y ''
khul Son,kham
A ,    , .,,. ,   
Ralchabull ~ ~ ~    ~     Th Ca~  'h6l8b,
DEMOCRATIC KAMPUCHEA
i20                                                                                          1W1
j PrachKua Khlri
THAILAND
NakbilTanmaalTHIRD RUBBER REPLANTING PROJECT
z~~~~~~~~~~~5 Thamm;nvqat
k .>\\@   ) \$s   it ^PzkPhorian                           EXISTING CONCENTRATION OF RUEBER GROWING
B0:<  *..                                      (,    , *    ORRAF PROVINCE OFFICES
~ 5Mt; KribJ,,                                                                   @ t   ' fl_ \   r:  3    ORRAF HEADOUARTERs ANO NATIONAL CAPITAL 8°
uke( Trah  *'                                                                 R X  .    PRIT RUBBER RESEARCH CENTERS
Tr |  Tnng  bl     ng                                                         RRIT RU BBER EXPERIMENTALITHIAINING STATIONS



. ', do mon                                                 ILIiemKrabal,
o ,,Ths     IthbuFI                     DEMOCRATIC KAMPUCHEA
-120                                                                                                                                                                      12"L
i e >                       R DPI  U8P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Khlrl 
) ..Khan                                             ) 
Oumiphon
"Van
'iN~~~~~~~~~~~n
/                 )                                    o-THAILAND
.*  )>                        akh-',   SI ThammarTHIRD RUBBER REPLANTING PROJECT
. ^. > .... )\9 lNalshk    1 Thomwot\F
wjO*    >     \        .       ... 3 < J PakPltana                                               EXISTING CONCENTRATION OP RUBBER GROWING
-B° .8. . *PX ( *                                                                ORRAF PROVINCE OFFICES
,80i  Krab   \  g_  vj7 i _)                                                                  0     ORRAF HEADQUARTERS AND NATIONAL CAPITAL
'nuXtt  -'i   \  q '..                                              *    PRIT RUBBER RESEARCH CENTERS
T Tr                                                                          S    RRIT RUBBER EXPERIMENTALJTRAINING STATIONS
rxX,~5\Xx Zngklihla                                     ROADS
RAILWAYS
YHal;i  wbpattani                       ti   AIRPORTS
PORTS
Satu;,JrZ                        *  >\i>e l- - CHANGWAT (PROVINCE) BOUNDARIES
___        .             {       ,                              --REGION  BOUNDARIES
0      50      100     150    200    250    300                            I               athl -t-                            INTERATIONALBOUNDARIES
0n                 KILOMETERS 2NA0 20N LO
° t          5 . 0       1 0 0       1 5 0       2 0 0
A                         MILES
M           cef AVz im b we di I ~1s*w" _tr S" .v ,ff /
Sqa~ c.wset. IS dolwl-"" mM MW MANA DANM &- AM Aw- bM
-.  V~. - t  of41.7 TNUI SW M  54el  mU,ww41 tftdW. C.AMft B7A"~A.
on -M9b "a a" ~   "ei~'~- _                                .      M   A   I  A  Y  S  I A
'°GLo   ^~Wld~w"_wb"#"*X_                                  tw°o   i                            I



