Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7309
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT! 1163-PAK)
June 24, 1988
EMENA Regional Office
This docuent has a restrtided disttibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia duies. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CR. 1163-PAK)
Abbreviations and Glossarv
Chak            Lowest order of irrigation command
FGW             Fresh groundwater, or fresh groundwater area
FWMC            Federal Water Management Cell
FY              Fiscal year
GOP             Government of Pakistan
ICB             International competitive bidding
IFAD            Internatlonal Fund for Agricultuial Development
M & E           Monitoring and evaluation
Mogha           Uncontrolled outlet from parent canal to chak
NWFP            North West Frontier Province
OFWM            On-farm water management
o & M           Operation and maintenance
P               Present situation
PC-l            Government project document
PCR             Project completion report
PLL             Precision land levelling
Pucca nucca     Permanent (masonry or concrete) outlet
PY              Project year
RAP             Revised Action Programme for Irrigated Agriculture
SAR             Staff appraisal report
Sarkari khal    Comunnal portion of watercourse
SGW             Saline groundwater, or saline groundwater area
T & V           Training and visit system of extension
USAID           U.S. Agency for International Development
WAPDA           Water and Power Development Authority
Watercourse     Irrigation distribution system in a chak (from mogha
to farmers' field turnouts)
With (W)        With project situation
Without (W/O)  Without project situation
WUA             Water users association



IFOR OMCUL Uu ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, DC. 20433
U.S.A.
Owke of 0mtovGe.wuI
OpqatuIe avaWtonn
June 24, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Pakistan On-Farm Water Management
ProJect (Loan 1163-PAR)
Attached, for luformation, is a copy of a report entitled
"ProJect Completion Report - Pakistan On-Farm Water Management Project
(Loan 1163-PAK)" prepared by the EMENA Regional Office. No further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has
been made.
Attachment
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othetwis be discloed without Worid Dank authofizatln.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CR. 1163-PAK)
Table of Contents
Pag
PREFACE   ........................ 
BASIC DATA SHEET  ............ * ......................**...s*@*@ i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....................... SO .....................   iv
I.  INTRODUCTION   I.........................................          ....   1
II.  IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL  ..........................   2
-  Project Origin  ................................................    2
-  Identification and Preparation         .................................   3
-  Appraisal and Credit Effectiveness        .............................   4
IIi.  IMPLEMENTATION  ..................................................   6
A.  Project Start  ...........................999999999999009999099    6
B.  Overall Implementation Experience  .......     ......................  6
C.  Implementation of Specific Items  ......       ........................   7
-  Civil Works  ................................................   7
-  Water Users Associations (WUAs)  ........... ..................   10
-  Training                                 ......................   11
-  Technical Assistance            ......................   12
-  Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E)        ..........................  12
-  Project Cost and Financing  .................................  15
-  The IDA Credit       ....................................  15
-  Procurement      ............          l                           16
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE              .................                  16
-  Project Coordination  ..        ..............................   16
-  Implementing Agencies  .                                               16
- Extension Service and Coordination between OFWM and
Extension Directovates   ..............................   17
-  Reporting and Accounting       ................................   18
-  Cost Recovery   ................................   18
-  Compliance with Covenants   ...............................   19
V.  PROJECT IMPACT  ................................                          19
-  General  99099099999999999999999999999999   19
-  Agricultural Impact                        ....                        19
-  Social Impact  ..................................................21
-  Technological Change  ......................                           21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE                                     22.oee....0.......*.......**  22
-  Farm Incomes  ........ ...............0..............  22
-  Economic Performance  .........4................********......
VII. -WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE  ...................................           25
-  Project Design and Appraisal  ......................*.......*...   25
-  Supervision  ................           .......................  25
VIII. MAIN ISSUES  ........           ................... ..........  25
IX.  CHANGES IN THE FOLLOW-ON PROJECT  .........600..0000.......**......   26
X.  CONCLUSIONS  ........................................  28
ANNEXES
ATTACHMENT I - Borrower's Comments
MAP - IBRD 19935



-1-
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATVR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CR. 1163-PAK)
PREFACE
This is a project completion report (PCR) for the On-Farm Water
Management Project in Pakistan for which a credit of SDR 33.4 million (No.
1163-PAK) was extended to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in August 1981.
The project was cofinanced by a loan from the International Fund for Agricul-
tural Development. The credit closing date was extended once, by one year,
to December 31, 1985. The final disbursement was made in August 1986 and the
undisbursed credit balance of SDR 7,475,315.54 (22.4S of the credit amount)
was cancelled on August 23, 1986.
This report is based on the PCR prepared by an FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program mission that visited Pakistan in April 1986 and a review of IDA
records.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on February 16,
1988 for comments. Comments are attached as an Attachment to the report.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



-ii-
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENS PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
Basic Data Sheet
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal              Actual or              Column 2 as S of
EstLmate           Current Estimate               Column 1
(1)                   (2)                        (3)
Total Project Coat (USs million)                         111.58                  59.23                        53
Credit Amount (SDR million)                               33.40 1/               25.92                        78
Cofinancing (SDR million)
- International Fund for Agricultural Development         10.50                   8.91                        65
Date Physical Components Completed                       06/30184              06/30/85
Proportion then Completed (X)                              103                    116
Economic Rate of ReEurn (2)                                 45                     29                         64
Institutional Performance                                  Good                  Good
Technical Performance                                      Good               Satisfactory
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY82     FY83      FY84      EY85     FY86      FY87
Appraisal Estimate (SDR million)                            5.7      15.9      28.9     33.4
Actual (SDR million)                                        2.1       5.8      13.8     21.1      25.8      25.9
Actual as Z of Appraisal                                     37        36        48       63        77        78
Date of Final Disbursement: August 22, 1986
STAFF INPUTS (Staffveeksj
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    Total
Preappraisal                       17.0    51.2    31.8       0.1      -        -       -        -        -      100.1
Appraisal                           -        -       99.0     -            -        -        -            -       99.0
Negotiation                         -        -       16.-?    0.5      -        -       -        -        -       16.1
Supervision                         -        -        0.?    29.2    30.4    27.7    21.6    32.4    13.9    155.4
Otber                               -        0.1      1.3     -        -        -       -        -        -         1.4
lota]                              17.0    51.3   148.5    29.8    30.4    27.7    21.6    32.4    13.9    372.6
PROJECT DATES
Original
Plan             Revisions          Actual
Identification Report 2/                                                                      06/04/80
Negotiations                                            04/81 3/                               04-05/81 4/
Board Approval                                          06/16/81                               06/16/81
Credit Signing                                                                                 08/19/81
Credit Effectiveness                                    11/19/81            02/18/82 5/        03/30/82
Credit Closing                                          12/31/84            12/31/85           12/31/85
1/ Equivalent to US$41 million at time of negotiations.
Z/  Project brief identifying the project as a spin-off of the watercourse cleaning and maintenance
component of a proposed nationwide water management project.
31  Start April 20.
4/  Start April 28.
5/  First of two revisions.



-iii-
ON-FAYM WATER  IWIACMW  PROJEC. Ci. 1163-PAP
Basic Dhta Sheet
(Page 2.i
MISSION DATA
__Performance Rt tins
Month/      No. of      Mandays         Specialisatious                                   Types of
Mission                           Year        Peraons     in Field 1/       genresented 2/          Status 3/   Trnd _/   Problems 1/
Identification                  04/80            4           93               2U, B, I
Preparation                     06-07/80         3           49                A, 21
Appraisal                       11-1/80         6          165               2U, 2E, 21
Suyervision 1                   09-10/81         1            9                A                       2                      T S,F,O
Supervision 2 6/                05/82            1            4                A
Supervision 3 _/                10-11/82         2            4                A, I
Supervision 4                   03-04/83         3           37               A, 21                    2            1           I
Supervision 5                   11-12/83         1           15                1                       2            1           I
Supervision 6  6/               06-07/84         2            5               A, I
Supervision 7                   09-10/84         4           20               2U, B. 1                 2            1           1
Supervision 8                   04-05/85       1 t 1         26                1 + A                   1                       P
Funds   -ffERL,   Impact    Status
Supervision 9                   10-11/85         2           25                2A, I                    1Fn/    2 A/     1 9I/     1 ajt
Supervision 10                  04-05186         2           17               A, E                     1        2        1         1
PCR jj                          04/86            3           66                A, B, I
OSH=ER DATA
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                 July 1 - June 30
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                         Rupee (Rs)
Exehange Rate (Rs/USS)
Appraisal Year Average (1980-81)                       9.90
Intervening Years Average (1981-82 to 1984-85)        13.02 ia
Completion Year Average (1985-86)                     16.13
Follow-on Project
Name                                                  Second On-Farm Vater Management Project (OFMM-U1)
Credit No.                                            1603-PAlt
Credit Amount (8DR million)                           34.8
Date of Board Approval                                June 6, 1985
Date of Credit Signing                                September 30, 1985
Date of Effectiveness                                 February 14, 1986
I Most supervision missions worked on several assigmento but did not specify in all cases the time spent
on each. In such cases, supervision tine bas been apportioned based on the recollection of mission members or,
when this was not possible, on the assumption that equal time was spent on each assignment.
A - agriculturalist; R - economist; I-irrig.tion engineer.
11 1 - problem-free or minor problems; 2 - roderate problems.
j I - improving.
/ P - financial; K - managerial; T - technical; 0 - other (aee Annex 5).
£/ Partial; no Form 590 prepared.
7   1 - adequate funds are provided for the project.
A/  2 - project management is capable of doing its job with only moderate problems.
I/ 1 - project objectives are expected to be substantially achieved.
0   1 - no significant problems.
1    PAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
J.j/ 10.55 for 1981-82, 12.75 for 1982-83, 13.50 for 1983-84. 15.30 for 1984-85.



-iv-
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CR. 1163-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.      Because of low rainfall and high temperature and evapotranspiration,
irrigation is required for most agriculture in Pakistan. About 90S of
agricultural production comes from irrigated land, the bulk of which lies
within the Indus irrigation system. Past agricultural performance varied
considerably. One factor preventing sustained high growth has been the
uncertainty of irrigation water supplies, coupled with inefficiencies in the
irrigation system.  The On-Farm Water Management Project, financed with the
help of an IDA credit and a loan from the International Fund for Agricultural
Development, was designed to address this issue at the chak 1/ level. It was
the 113th Bank Group opt ation in Pakistan.
Objectives
ii.     The project concept evolved from studies and water loss measurements
which determined that watercourse conveyance losses were substantial and chak
irrigation efficiencies low. The project built an the experience of a
nationwide OFWM Pilot Project undertaken with USAID assistance (FY77-81) and
a watercourse cleaning program carried out in Punjab. It was identified in
April 1980, prepared with IDA assistance during the summer, and appraised by
IDA in November/December 1980. The IDA credit (Cr. 1163-PAK, SDR 33.4 mil-
lion) was approved in June 1981, and the credit agreement was signed in
August 1981 and became effective in March 1982. The IFAD loan agreement was
signed in June 1982.
iii.    The project, which covered all four provinces, included watercourse
renovation (lining, reconstruction of earthen sections) and cleaning, instal-
lation of structures, precision land levelling, construction of water storage
tanks, establishment of demonstration plots, provision of additional staff,
and technical assistance and training. It was expected to be completed by
June 1984. Project cost, including a negligible amount of duties, was
estimated to be US$111.6 million equivalent, of which US$53 million (47.5Z)
were to be financed by IDA and IFAD.
1/ A chak is the lowest order of irrigation comaand covering on average
about 400 ac and 35 farms. The watercourse is the communal irrigation
delivery system within a chak.



iv.     Responsibility for project implementation rested with OFWM Direc-
torates within the provincial Departments of Agriculture, witb coordination
to be provided by a Federal Water Management Cell (FWMC) in the Ministry of
Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives. Farmers, organized into water users
associations (WUAs), were expected to donate labor for the construction of
project works. In Punjab and Sind, they were also expected to repay a share
of the cost of construction materials.
v.      The project's economic rate of recurn was estimated to be 451.  The
appraisal report concluded that the project would remain viable "even with
an unlikely combination of a 151 increase in cost, 15S decrease in expected
water savings, and a delay of the full development benefits by one year"
(para 7.12).
Implementation Experience
vi.     Because of strong government support, enthusiasm of project staff,
and keen interest of the farmers to participate in the project, implementa-
tion was on the whole smooth and without major difficulties. But the pace
varied from province to ptrovince. In general, Punjab and NWFP did not
experience the difficulties of the other two provinces. In Sind and
Baluchistan, budget ceilings were imposed on watercourse renovation which
prevented the lining criteria agreed at appraisal to be applied in all cases.
Project implementation in Baluchistan also suffered from lack of staff. Most
of the field teams were never at full strenath.
vii.    A problem faced by the entire project was the performance of the
FIWC. The FWMC was late in recruiting consultants, procuring equipment, and
claiming reimbursement, and slow in operating the civil works imprest
account. Project vehicles reched the field only in PY3 which affected field
staff mobility. The cumbersome procedure employed for transferring funds
from the imprest account to the provincial aubaccounts was reason for com-
plaints throughout the implementation period. The reasons for these
shortcomings were lack of experience, as the FIMC had been newly created
under the Pilot Project, lack of clear directives to staff, and lack of
continuity in staffing.
viii.   In spite of these difficulties, physical progress was satisfactory.
When in PY84 the Government of Pakistan %GOP) requested a one-year extension
of the IDA credit, the enthusiastic reception of the project by farmers and
implementation progress so far induced IDA to respond favorably, and IFAD
jointd in this decfsion. By the end of the extended project period, all
revised targets, except trickle irrigation demonstration, had been achieved
or considerably exceeded.
ix.     These were impressive accomplishments, but the project should also
have given adequate attention to the management of land and water in the
renovated watercourse commands.  Irrigation efficiencies were expected to be



increased through improved water scheduling and application methods, and
I       ~~these together with improved farming practices were to be shown on the demon-
stration plots and propagated through extension. Because of poor coordina-
tion between the OFWM and Extension Directorates and shortage of qualified
staff, this objective was not fully achieved.
Xs      Actual project cost, including farmers' labor, amounted to Rs 804.1
million (US$59.2 million) compared with Rs 1,104.6 million (US$111.6 million)
estimated at appraisal. The main reasons for this reduction were lover than
expected physical contingencies, smaller than estimated increases in local
material costs, and a substantial devaluation of the Rupee since appraisal.
As a result of these changes, the share of the cofinanciers in total cost
increased by 11.5Z (IDA) and 7Z (IFAD) in spite of cancellation of part of
the IDA credit and IFAD loan. Covernment's share stayed roughly the same,
while that of farmers declined.
xi.     IDA disbursements lagged substantially behind appraisal estimates.
By December 1984, the original closing date, SDR 18.9 million (601 of
appraisal target) had been disbursed. With the final disbursment in August
1986, the total amount disbursed reached SDR 25.9 million (78Z). The remain-
ing credit balance of SDR 7.5 million was cancelled.
xii.    In Punjab, the first repayments of farmers' share in the cost of
construction materials were due in late 1983-84. The record so far is poor.
Recoveries of the aounts due for improvements made in 1981482 declined
steadily from 961 for the first to 242 for the sixth installment. For
1982-83 improvements, the recovery rate declined from 861 for the first to
241 for the fourth installment. Of the first two installments due for
1983-84 improvements, only 591 and 271 were collected. In Sind, cost
recovery was to start in mid-1985. In October 1986, the Director OVUM wrote
the FUMC that procedures were being streamlined by the Revenue Department
(re.ponsible for collection in the province), expressed hope that once this
was done recovery would be no problem, and promised to report on recovery
progress from time to time. So far, no such report has been received.
Results
xiii.   The project has made substantial efforts to introduce improved
methods of saving irrigation water with the participation of farmers and thus
increase crop production. While its positive impact on production is
unequivocally acknowledged by farmers and other observers, this impact is
difficult to quantify because of lack of data. The OVUM Directorates did not
keep record of agricultural changes, ad the project evaluation reports are
insufficient for this purpose. To the extent possible, the PCR mission
collected additional information from farmers in the project area. Cropping
intensities and yields in this report are mission estimates, while figures
for command area are based on data provided by the supervisory consultants.



-vii-
xiv.    The command area of the renovated watercourses is about 1.58 million
acres, double the area estimated at appraisal.  As expected at aplpraisal,
there were no significant changes in cropping pattern.  Wheat, cotton, sugar-
-cane and fodder remain the major crops in Punjab and Sind, wheat and sugar-
cane in NWPP, and wheat and paddy in Baluchistan. With the increase in
cropping intensity, there was an increase in area planted to all major crops.
Generally, PCR y.eld estimates are higher than appraisal estimates, and so
are yield increases over the "without project" situation. The combination of
larger project area and higher crop yields resulted in higher production than
estimated at appraisal for all major crops except paddy.
xv.     The PCR mission prepared six illustrative farm models, of which two
each for Punjab and Sind, and one each for Baluchistan and NWFP. The PCR
estimates of increases in farm income are higher than the appraisal report's
for fresh groundwater areas in Punjab and Sind, roughly the same for saline
groundwater areas ih Sind, but lower for Baluchistan, saline groundwater
areas in Punjab, and UWPP, particularly the latter two models. In any case,
the financial benefits together with the non-quantified benefits of water-
course renovation provided sufficient incentive for farmers to participate in
the project, as demonstrated by the number of requests for improvements.
Zvi.    The recalculation of the project's economic rate of return is based
on the crop production and farm budget estimates described above, actt'al
costs for PYI-5 and projected costs for PY6-20, expressed in 1985-86 terms.
On this basis, the overall rate of return is 29%, with provincial rates
ranging from 24Z (Sind) to 30X (Punjab). These rates are lower than
estimated at appraisal but still very satisfactory, the main reason for the
difference being the significantly lower commodity prices that are now
expected to prevail. Sensitivity tests show that the project is likely to
remain viable during the rest of its life.
Sustainability
xvii.   The following issues are most important for the future of the
program. Watercourse renovation in many cases has increased the mogha 1/
discharge, the cumulative effect of which could lead to imbalances in the
water distribution of parent canals, reducing the share of water of tail end
farmers. This points to the need for a more systematic approach to renova-
tion which would invol.-s renovating watercourses in clusters covering entire
command areas of minor or distributary canals. This approach would also
improve logistics and thus be more cost effective, but it woulai mean a depar-
ture from the present practice of spreading resources widely.
1/ Uncontrolled outlet from parent canal to chak.



-viii-
xviii. Adequate repair and maintenance are prerequisites for a reasonabie
length of service life of the watercourses, and active involvement of the
WUAs is therefore of great importance. But the WUAs appear to cease func-
tioning effectively after the completion of construction, and to neglect
maintenance, as was already experienced in the Pilot Project. So far, there
are no readily available solutions to this question. Various proposals are
being discussed. The feasibility of such proposals should be careful'/
examined before any decision is taken.
xix.    Faced with the task of renovating some 79,000 watercourses 1/ while
budgetary constraints persist, the Covernment is moving toward greater farmer
participation in the financing of OFWM works. However, raising the share of
investment costs farmers have to repay will achieve little unless collection
rates can also be increased. Farmers' repayment performance tnder this
project has been disappointing, and every effort should be made to reverse
the declining tendency observed since 1983-84.
Findings and Lessons
xs.     Lessons learned from OFWM-I have guided the design of the Second
On-Farm Water Management Project, for which an IDA credit of SDR 34.8 million
(Cr. 1603-PAK) was made in September 1985. In fact, the rationale for con-
tinued IDA involvement was that the project provided the "opportunity to
consolidate the gains achieved under earlier projects and to make necessary
changes in the program to efficiently transLate water savings into increased
agricultural production, improve maintenance of renovated watercourses, and
emphasize a broader range of OFWM practices". Changes introduced under the
second project are: (i) in response to farmer dissatisfaction with the
accelerated watercourse improvement program, a pilot program is included "to
determine the relative efficiency of this approach", which is identical with
the regular renovation program except that no lining is provided; (ii) to
overcome the weaknesses in non-structural water management services and to
enable the Extension Service to assume an expanded role, the project provides
specialized staff training and improved coordination between Water Management
and Extension; (iii) the performance of the WUAs is to be improved through
provision of an additional Water Management Officer (Agr) per field team,
plus two &ssistants; (iv) arrangements have been made for better project
monitoring and evaluation; and (v) partial recovery of the cost of construc-
tion materials has been introduced in Baluchistan and NWFP, and the rates in
Punjab and Sind have been increased.
1/ Total of 89,000 less watercourses covered by completed and ongoing
programs.



- 1 -
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1     Despite its diminishing relative importance in the economy, agricul-
ture remains the largest commodity producing sector, principal source of
income for a majority of the population, most impertant source of exports,
chief supplier of raw materials for industry, and primary market for the
non-agricultural sectors.
1.2     Because of low rainfall and high temperature and evapotranspiration,
irrigation is required for most agriculture. About 90% of agricultural
production comes from irrigated land, the bulk of which lies within the Indus
Irrigation System. With a command area of about 34.5 million acres, the
system is the largest contiguous irrigation system in the world. Today, it
comprises three major storage reservoirs (Tarbela, Mangla, Chasma), 19 bar-
rages or headworks, 12 link canals, 43 canal commands, and about 89,000
chaks. In addition, about 12,500 public and 200,000 private tubewells pump
groundwater for irrigation.
1.3     Past agricultural performance varied considerably.  Rapid growth in
the late 1960s (about 6Z p.a.) was followed by sluggish growth during much of
the 1970s (about 2% p.a.). During the Fifth Plan period (FY79-83), the
growth rate increased again to 4.2% p.a. The first two years of the Sixth
Plan (FY84-88) brought a setback. Unfavorable weather and pest attacks on
the cotton crop led to a decrease of 6.1% in value added in FY84. Relatively
good weather and government measures to protect the cotton crop and improve
cotton yields contributed to a strong recovery in FY85 (9.9%). One factor
prevent'ing sustained high agricultural growth has been the uncertainty of
irrigation water supplies, coupled with inefficiencies in the irrigation
systemr.
1.4     Conveyance of water supplies in excess of design capacities has put
great stress on the system. Combined with deferred maintenance this resulted
in frequent canal bank breaches and interruptions of service. Various WAPDA
studies show that about 25% of surface supplies are lost before reaching tne
chaks. Operation and maintenance of watercourses within the chaks are thie
responsibility of farmers. Because of poor farmer cooperation and inadequate
technical assistance, these watercourses have deteriorated. Due to the
resulting delivery losses, farmers in the middle and tail reaches generally
receive considerably less than their planned share of water. The Canal and
Drainage Act, 1873 provides sanctions to ensure adequate watercourse main-
tenance by farmers, but it has rarely been enforced.
1.5     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy, and has supported sectoral reform
through complementary program and project lending. Approximately 30% of
total Bank/IDA commitments have been for agriculture and irrigation, includ-
ing participation, over more than 20 years, in the program of works to
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. The On-farm Water Management
Project (OFWK:-I) was the 113th Bank Group operation. Its objective was to



-2-
raise agricultural production through improved water management practices
within chaks.
1.6     This report is based on the project completion report (PCR) prepared
by an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission that visited Pakistan in April
1986 -- Report No. 79/86 CP-PAK 33 CR, June 1986 -- and a review of IDA
records.
II. IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Project Origin
2.1     While earlier studies 1/ had assumed a rather high watercourse
delivery efficiency (90) and correspondingly small losses, WAPDA undertook a
research project through the Mona Reclamation Experiment Station in 1973
which demonstrated that the delivery efficiency was in fact much lower (56%).
This project, which covered 13 watercourses, received funding from USAID with
expatriate research staff provided by the Colorado State University (CSU).
Subsequently, two surveys were conducted covering larger samples of water-
courses: (i) the "Forty Watercourses Survey" in Punjab and Sind (1975-76),
again by WAPDA/Mona with CSU co".laboration; and (ii) the "Sixty-One Watercourses
Survey" mostly in Punjab and Sind (1976-77), by WAPDA with UNDP financing and
the World Bank as executing agency. The second survey was part of the data
gatheiing exercise for the formulation of the Revised Action Programme for
Irrigated Agriculture (RAP, 1979).  The first survey showed an average
delivery efficiency of 53%, the second 55% for rabi (dry season) and 56% for
kharif (rainy season).
2.2     Based on the findings of WAPDA/Mona, and encouraged by farmer
response to watercourse improvement techology developed at the Mona station,
the Government of Pakistan (GOP) and USAID agreed to launch a nationwide OFWM
Pilot Project. Its estimated cost was Rs 313.2 million, spread over the
period PY77-82. In 1978 the ptoject was rescheduled to coincide with the
Fifth Plan (FY79-83), and the cost estimate was revised to Rs 423.2 million.
A US$7.5 million USAID development loan was made in FY77. A technical assis-
tance grant was also provided to finance a team from the Soil Conservation
Service. The Pilot Project was administered by a Federal Water Management
Cell (FWMC) in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives and imple-
mented by OFWM Directorates within the provincial Departments of Agriculture.
An innovative featture was that farmers supplied all unskilled labor for civil
works construction.
1/ Including the World Bank led Indus Special Study which provided the
justification for the construction of the Tarbela dam.



-3-
2.3     The Pilot Project had three main components:  (i) improving about
1,500 vatercourses through partial masonry lining (10X), compaction of
earthen sections, and installation of concrete control structures; (ii)
precision land levelling to cover about 420,000 acres; and (iii) introducing
improved water management practices on about 40,000 farms. Although the
Pilot Project did not achieve its targets (by June 1980 only 500 watercourses
had been improved and about 45,000 acres levelled), GOP considered it to be a
success as it had demonstrated ways to improve irrigation efficiency,
developed an administrative framework for implementing water management
programs, assessed farmers' acceptance of project proposals, and increased
awareness in Pakistan of the need for water management.
2.4     Recognizing the time and cost involved in providing Pilot Project
improvements to all chaks, the Government of Punjab initiated in FY80 a
"crash program" for heavy cleaning of watercourses, a technology also
developed at the Mona station. Credit arrangements were made to finance
farmers' share in the installation of permanent structures (pucca nuccas).
About 9,800 watercourses were cleaned, but because of administrative dif-
ficulties pucca nuccas were installed on only about 150 of the cleaned water-
courses.
Identification and Preparation
2.5    - The World Bank had over a number of years expressed interest in
financi4ig a water management project and had participated in the 1979 evalua-
tion of the Pilot Project by USAID. 1/ When the U.S. government decided to
prematurely end its support for the Pilot Project, GOP requested IDA assis-
tance for a project that would build on the experience of the Pilot Project
and Punjab's "crash program"   In order to maintain the momentum of the
ongoing projects, the project was to start in July 1981. An IDA identifica-
tion mission visited Pakistan in April 1980. The mipsion recommended to
split the previously envisaged water management project into two projects, an
On-Farm Water Management Project and a Command Water Management Project, to
facilitate meeting GOP's timetable.  The On-Farm Water Management Proje.-
was to have three main components -- watercourse renovation; 2/ acccle-'-'
watercourse improvement; and preparatory research for the Command Wat;-.
Management Project -- to be implemented by the provincial CFWM Directorates
and the Mona research station over three years. Project cost was tentatively
estimated to be Rs 510 million (US$51.5 million), excluding farmer donated
labor.
1/ The evaluation team called the project "a limited buc significant suc-
cess".
2/ To include land levelling and extension program.



-4-
2.6     Responsibility for project preparation rested with the Ministry of
Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives and the provincial Departments of A6ricul-
ture. IDA was to assist these agencies in finalizing the preparation report.
Accordingly, an IDA mission visited Pakistan in June/July 1980, and a
'feasi5ility report' was completed during its stay. The report proposed a
three-year project consisting of: (i) heavy cleaning of 33,600 watercourses
and improvement of 2,869 watercourses with 102 lining in fresh groundwater
areas (FGW) and 30% lining in saline groundwater areas (SGW); (ii) precision
levelling of 100,500 acres; (iii) establishment of 49 water tanks in
Baluchistan; (iv) water management extension on 3,764 farms; and (v) recruit-
ment and training of additional staff necessary to carry out the project.
The project was to cover all four provinces and to be implemented by the OFWM
Directorates within the Departments of Agriculture, with coordination to be
provided by the FWMCo Total project cost was estimated to be Rs 1,198 mil-
lion (US$121 million).
Appraisal and Credit Effectiveness
2.7     The OFWH-I project was appraised by IDA in November/December 1980.
As appraised9 it aimed at increasing agricultural production by effective
utilization of irrigation water saved through improved water management
practices. It comprised: (i) renovation of 2,065 watercourses through
rebuilding with clean compacted soil, installation of pucca nuccas at junc-
tions and authorized outlets, provision of culverts and some buffalo baths,
and lining of an average 15X in FGW and 30Z in SGW; (ii) accelerated improve-
ment of 16,500 watercourses through heavy cleaning and installation of a
limited number of structures; (iii) precision land levelling (PLL) on 36,750
acres -- with the 50Z subsidy offered under the Pilot Project and retained in
the 'feasibility report' abolished except in Baluchistan; (iv) establishment
of one-acre demonstration plots on all renovated watercourses except in Sind,
where one plot was plannea for every 20 watercourses; (v) establishment of 17
trickle irrigation demonstration plots in Baluchistan; (vi) construction of
37 water storage tanks on renovated watercourses in Baluchistan; (vii) provi-
sion of additional staff, and training for project staff and beneficiaries;
and (viii) technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring and
evaluation (M & E). Details on targets are in Annex 2, Tables 1-4.
2.8     In line with the proposals of the preparation team, the project was
to be implemented by the provincial OFWK Directorates, with coordination of
project activities by the FWMC. The Directorates were made responsible for
watercourse selection and design, provision of construction materials, super-
vision of watercourse construction, operation and maintenance, and organiza-
tion and registration of water users associations (WUAs). WUAs were to be
organized under provincial ordinances before lining or installation of struc-
tures was started. Once organized into WUAs, farmers were expected to donate
labor for the construction of project works. In Punjab and Sind, where the
watercourse improvement program had been well introduced by the Pilot



-5-
Project, farmers were also expected to repay 201 and 25% of the cost of
construction materials, respectively, 1/ in ten semi-annual installments
following a two-year grace period in the case of renovation, and in three
annual installments folloving a one-year grace period in the case of
accelerated improvement. No provision for cost recovery was made in the
other two provinces. The responsibilities of the FWMC included preparing
consolidated annual work plans and quarterly and annual progress reports for
submission to IDA; maintaining consolidated project accounts, operatinig the
newly created Civil Works Imprest Account, and submitting reimbursement
applications to IDA; promulgating appropriate technical standards, assuring
adherence to agreed criteria and specifications of works, and arranging for
related research; and providing for project monitoring and evaluation. The
cr:ation of the Civil Works Imprest Account and provincial subaccounts was to
eliminate the shortage of funds for procurement of materials experienced by
the Pilot Project.
2.9     The preparation and appraisal proposals were basically similar.
However, the watercourse improvement targets had to be reduced considerably
for both technologies because of limited domestic funding and the higher unit
costs found at appraisal. The PLL target was scaled down even more drasti-
cally because it appeared too ambitious, particularly after the removal of
the 50% subsidy in three of the four provinces. On the other hand, the
lining percentage in FCW was raised to 15Z, and demonstration plots were
added as a component. Project cost, including contingencies and farmers'
labor, was estimated to be Rs 1,104.6 million (US$111.58 million). In addi-
tion to the proposed IDA credit of SDR 33.4 million (US$41.0 million), exter-
nal financing was expectej from the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD; US$12 million). The project's economic rate of return was
estimated to be 45%.
2.10    Negotiations took place as scheduled, and the IDA credit was approved
on June 16, 1981, and signed on August 19, 1981. The breakdown of cost and
the original credit allocation are given in Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3. The
credit was to become effective on or before November 19, 1981. Conditions of
effectiveness were project approval by GOP; establishment of the Imprest
Account and provincial subaccounts and Oceosit of 10P's initial contribution;
and appointment of supervisory consultants. Because of delays in project
approval, the effectiveness date had to be changed twice, and Credit 1163-PAK
was declared effective only on March 30, 1982. An IFAD loan of SDR 10.5
million for the project was signed on June 18, 1982 (Annex 1, Table 5).
1/ The difference in rates was due to the fact that Punjab farmers would
hire the masons while Sind farmers would not.



-6-
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Start
3.1     From the outset, the project enjoyed strong government support and
thus had an early start. Although the PC-ls were not included in the agenda
of the October 1981 meeting of the Executive Committee of tne National
Economic Council (ECNEC) for approval, anticipatory approval was given by the
Minister of Finance which permitted the release of funds by mid-November
1981. Project works were started before the IDA credit became effective. As
the project was similar to the recently ended Pilot Project and most df the
staff was already in place, the OFWM Directorates did not need much time to
get ready, and farmers were also familiar with the project's proposals.
B. Overall Implementation Experience
3.2     Because of the strong government support, enthusiasm of project
officials, and farmers' keenness to participate in the project, implementa-
tion was on the whole smooth and without major difficulties. But the pace
varied from province to province. In general, Punjab and NWFP did not
experience the difficulties of the other two provinces.
3.3     In Sind, about 70 watercourses were renovated before the promulgation
of the WUA ordinance and therefore were not eligible for IDA financing. In
addition, the PC-1 prepared by the Government of Sind put a ceiling of Rs
80,000 per watercourse on renovation which prevented the lining criteria
agreed at appraisal to be applied in all cases. A similar budget ceiling of
Rs 64,000 was imposed by the Government of Baluchistan. Project implementa-
tion in Baluchistan also suffered from lack of staff. Most of the field
teams were not at full strength throughout the implementation period.
3.4     A problem faced by the entire project was the performance of the
FWMC. The FWMC was late in recruiting consultants, procuring equipment, and
applying for reimbursement, and slow in operating the imprest account and
reporting project progress. Project vehicles reached the field only in PY3
which affected field staff mobility. Although a substantial amount of work
had been done, the FWMC did not apply for reimbursement until March 1982.
The cumbersome procedure employed for transferring funds from the imprest
account to the provincial subaccounts was reason for complaints throughout
project implementation.
3.5     In spite of the above-mentioned difficulties, overall physical
progress was satisfactory. When in FY84 COP requested a one-year extension
of the IDA credit, the enthusiastic reception;of the project by farmers and
implementation progress so far induced IDA to respond favorably, and IFAD
joined in this decision. By the end of the extended project period, all



-7-
revised targets, except trickle irrigation demonstration, had been achieved
or considerably exceeded.
C. Implementation of Specific Items
Civil Works                    1
3.6     Watercourse Renovation.  This component was considered to be the most
important. It provided for the improvement of the entire length of the
communal watercourse, or sarkari khal, which represents about 20% of the
watercourse length but involves nearly 85% of the channel usage and conse-
quently the highest losses. Through 1985-86, the project renovated 3,611
watercourses, exceeding the revised target by 15%. Details are in Annex 2,
Table 2; a sutmmry of achievements is in Table 1.
Table 1: WATERCOURSE RENOVATION - PHYSICAL ACHIEVEMENTS
Renovated                   Earthen       Outlets,
Watercourses    Lining a/  Improvement a/ Checks a/  Culverts a/
(No) b/        (m)           (m)          (No)       (No)
Punjab           2,821           640          3,000          36          3
Sind                396          280          1,820          36          2
NWFP                269          320            590          57          2
Baluchistan         125          350            460           7          c/
Total         3,611           570          2,600          37          3
a/ Average per watercourse.
b/  As certified by supervisory consultants.
c/ Less than one.
3.7     Spot checks by the PCR mission showed that the criteria regarding the
lining percentage were followed rasonably closely in Punjab and NWFP, but
less so in the other two provinces, because of the ceilings imposed on
renovation costs. An overall check was not possible as the consolidated
records available do not distinguish between watercourses in fresh and saline
groundwater areas nor give individual lengths of watercourses. 1/
1/ Available records show the "total length improved" per watercourse, but
it could not be clearly established whether this figure is identical with
the length of the sarkari khal in all cases.



-8-
3.8     The technical standards and quality of work for structural components
were generally satisfactory. However, certain deficiencies were observed.
In some instances, lined sections were over-dimensioned, resulting in wastage
of materials, in others there was insufficient freeboard. Rebuilding of the
sarkari khal with clean compacted soil was done more frequently in Punjab
than in the other provinces. Earthen improvements were often judged unsatis-
factory by the supervisory consultants. While lining had great appeal for
farmers as well as project staff, earth works were given less attention, and
their potential benefits were underestimated.
3.9     During the project period, about a dozen firms took up the production
of precast pucca nuccas. Output quality has greatly improved over time and
there are now few material flaws. But faulty installations are still found,
with concrete gates being too steeply inclined or wingwalls being defective.
In some large chaks in Sind the project yielded to farmers' demand to have
steel gates instead of pucca nuccas -- an unnecessary return to a technology
that had been superseded by the precast pucca nucca.
3.10    Accelerated Watercourse Improvement.  This component was a successor
of the "crash program" initiated in Punjab in 1979-80 aiming to bring a
reasonable level of water saving to a maximum number of watercourses in a
relatively short time. Through 1985-86, the project improved 19,184 water-
courses in this manner, fully achieving the revised target (Annex 2, Table 1,
page 1). Although, if properly executed, the program should be an acceptable
compromise in view of persisting budgetary constraints, farmers (except in
Baluchistan) widely cons'.dered it to be far inferior to renovation. It did
not help to change their judgement that the quality of works was in many
cases well below appraisal expectations. The few pucca nuccas, installed
without sufficient engineering survey and design (except in Baluchistan),
proved inadequate. Moreover, farmers feared that participation in the
cheaper accelerated program might deprive them of the opportunity to obtain
support for the full renovation of their watercourse. Perhaps it was unwise
to undertake two types of improvement simultaneously in the same areas.
3.11    Precision Land Levelling (PLL).  This third major component was
necessary for improving water distribution within the fields and thereby
increasing on-farm water use efficiency. Although the project provided only
technical assistance and machinery for hire, except in Baluchistan, 1/
farmers made full use of these services and the revised project target was
exceeded by 28Z (Annex 2, Table 1, page 1). Included in the land levelled
were stretches along the head reach of many watercourses where huge amounts
1/ Baluchisian continued the 50X subsidy for PLL introduced under the Pilot
Project as this was still considered necessary to make farmers adopt the
technique.



-9-
of silt had been deposited by farmers over the decades which were thus
returned to agricultural use.  The project employed conventional techniques
of survey, design and execution of PLL.  Equipment offered at cost included
tractor-drawn scrapers, land planes, tractors with front blade, and
bulldozers. Technical assistance by project staff of an average three man-
days per acre included planning, design, supervision and training of
operators. Laser control equipment was introduced in Punjab in 1984-85 on a
trial basis. It is too early to assess the suitability of this approach, but
the lack of large contiguous fields may limit its expanded use.
3.12    Demonstration Plots.  On these plots, farmers were to be shown the
effective use of the increased water supply resulting from project improve-
ments, including PLL and improved farming practices. Through 1985-86, 3,736
demonstration plots were established. This exceeded the revised project
target by 23X. However, Baluchistan and NWFP fell short of their revised
targets by a substantial margin. The criteria for selecting location and
participating farmers were generally met, although in some cases the location
was less than ideal and farmers had large holdings. The size of the demon-
stration plots varied from one acre in Sind and NWFP to 1-3 acres in Punjab
and Baluchistan. Free PLL and inputs were given to farmers establishing
demonstration plots except in NWFP where inputs had to be bought by farmers.
As a result, only about half of the participants in NWFP applied the recom-
mended rates of fertilizer. With the exception of Punjab, demonstration
plots were maintained only fot one crop season with relatively little impact
on neighboring farmers.
3.13    Trickle Irrigation Demonstration Plots.  In Baluchistan, the SAR
envisaged the establishment of 17 one-acre trickle irrigation demonstration
plots in existing orchards. The number was increased to 24 in the PC-1.
Design and procurement of equipment for six plots was initiated only in 1983.
Procedural constraints and delays in equipment supply further delayed the
program. By 1985, three plots were operational, of which two at the Agricul-
tural Training Institute (apple orchard, rose garden) and one at the
Vegetable Seed Farm, Sariah. By August 1986, three more plots had been
established in orchards, of which two on government land and one on private
land. A USAID-financed trickle irrigation expert assisted the OFWM Direc-
torate in 1985 and 1986 in the installation, testing and operation of the
trickle irrigation sets and the training of project staff.
3.14    Water Storage Tanks.  By including 37 water storage tanks for
Baluchistan, the project recognized the high relevance of such reservoirs for
on-farm water management in parts of the province. As expected, farmers
showed keen interest in this technology, and the revised target of 95 tanks
was exceeded by 22%. Reportedly several farmers built storage tanks at their
own expense.  The project provided tanks of two sizes -  40 x 40 x 4 ft and
40 x 60 x 4 ft -- with plastered brickwalls on a three-inch concrete floor.
None of the 116 tanks completed had a floor of plastic sheeting as specified
in the SAR. Reasons given for this change were procurement problems and



-10-
farmers' rejection of the .lastic version. The SAR condition that storage
tanks should be built "on renovated watercourses" (para 3.08) was rarely met.
In one installation, the increased discharge had badly eroded channels and
existing drop structures. Little advice appears to have been given to
farmers on water tank management.
Water Users Associations (WUAs)
3.15    With the exception of Sind, all provinces had promulgated their WUA
Ordinance before credit effectiveness. At project completion, the number of
WUAs registered was 11,285 which exceeded by far the SAR target of 2,065 --
that matched the projected number of watercourses. Details are in Annex 2,
Table 3.                   i
3.16    WUAs were most effective in obtaining assistance from the OFWM Direc-
torates and in mobilizing labor for the renovation of watercoursest due to
the immediately visible benefits to farmers. They appear to have ceased
operating effectively after the completion of construction. In some instan-
ces, tenant farmers, particularly those with short tenancy, refused to join
WUAs as they did not know when they would have to leave their farms. In
these cases, landlords did not volunteer to substitute.
3.17    Most WUAs have not functioned as formal and legal bodies, and offi-
cials were chosen through "mutual consansus" rather than formal elections.
Executive committees have been formed by all WUAs, but there were few formal
general or executive committee meetings. The WUAs do not keep a register of
members. They did open and maintain bank accounts at the time of registra-
tion to satisfy legal requirements, but the accounts remained inactive as
cash collected for various works stayed with the Chairman or Treasurer for
later payments. Operating bank accounts was said to pose difficulties as
banks were not located within easy reach.
3.18    During watercourse improvement, participation of water users in
decision-mak.ng through informal discussions was satisfactory. Differences
regarding water use and watercourse maintenance have been resolved by exert-
ing social pressure. Reasons why the executive committees have seldom
imposed sanctions against non-cooperating members, as provided for by the WUA
ordinances, include:
- preference for the traditional modes of managing an
organization and settling problems;
- existence of strong kinship ties with members and desire
to avoid factionalism and personal enmity between rival
groups; and
- poor knowledge of the legal powers of WUAs.



-ll-
3.19    The majority of water users is not familiar with the WUAs' charter
and by-laws, and their rights as members. Educational efforts by agricul-
tural and water management field staff have been insufficient. Close invol-
vement of properly trained staff is needed to guide the WUAs in sustained
maintenance of watercourses. Good understanding of the objectives of WUAs by
committee and ordinary members would go a long way to make these organiza-
tions workable.
Training
3.20    Among the four provinces, Punjab has the best OFWM training
institute. Established in 1974-75 with USAID assistance, its capacity was
further strengthened under the project. Necessary upgrading of the training
institutes in Sind and NWFP started only in 1985, and the new institute in
Baluchistan was not completed until 1986.
3.21    Punjab's institute in Lahore functioned very satisfactorily, training
not only project staff from all four provinces, but also staff from other
agencies, such as the Departments of Extension, and some foreign countries.
Courses were given in accordance with SAR expectations, including precision
land levelling (6 weeks), watercourse design and improvement (6 weeks), water
management extension (4 weeks), for professionals and sub-professionals as
weil as sLort courses  or WUA chairmen (1-3 days).
3.22    The number of ! .eople trained at the Lahore institute exceeded the SAR
target by nearly 801 (Annex 2, Table 4). Course content was generally satis-
factory, although some modifications were needed to cover criteria for water-
course improvement in upland areas, particularly in Baluchistan, and dif-
ferences in cropping patterns and farmer behavior in the four provinces.
Training in precision land levelling appears to have been over-emphasized; it
could have been limited to staff responsible for demonstration plots until
farmer response had been adequately assessed.
3.23    The number of people trained also exceeded the SAR targets in NWPP
(+ 42%), but fell substantially short of targets in Sind and Baluchistan
(Annex 2, Table 4). In total, 3,991 people were trained under the project,
compared with 29869 estimated at appraisal.  This total comprised 189 (SAR
- 149) professionals (team leaders and water management officers), 529 (SAR -
182) sub-professionals, 369 (SAR - 473) extension staff (agricultural
officers and field assistants), and 2,904 (SAR - 2,065) HUA chairmen.  Most
of the team leaders, water management officers and some agricultural officers
had already received training (90 days) under the Pilot Project.  The
majority of sub-engineers in Baluchistan received no training. Also, some
agricultural officers in Sind and all field assistants in Sind and Baluchis-
tan did not get any in-service training.



-12-
Technical Assistance
3.24    The technical assistance component consisted of 432 man-months of
local supervisory and 76 man-months of expatriate consultancy services. The
latter included the following specialities: irrigation water management and
engineering, 33 man-months; training, 18 man-mouths; monitoring and evalua-
tion, 12 man-months; irrigation agronomy, 9 man-months; and trickle irriga-
tion design, 4 man-months. In addition, the project provided for monitoring
and evaluation (M & E) to be carried out by a national agency (see below).
Implementation closely followed the SAR provisions.
3.25    A local firm was appointed in June 1982 and served throughout.the
project period. Its services included quantitative verification and quality
control of completed works, supervision of all activities related to design
and construction of works, preparation of reimbursement applications, and
assistance in the preparation of work plans and reports as well as procure-
ment. The contributions of the supervisory consultants were highly
appreciated by the OFVM Directorates and the FUMC. Some difficulties were
experienced by the Directorates, however, as a result of frequent changes in
consultants staff.
3.26    All expatriate consultants, except the trickle irrigation expert,
were provided by one firm. The contract was signed in April 1983, and the
consultants started work in July 1983, providing 29.7 man-months in 1983-84,
25.1 man-months in 1984-85, and 17.2 man-months in 1985-86. Their activities
comprised assistance in:
- engineering design and technology improvement;
- improving irrigation practices;
- developing hydraulic and hydrological computer programs;
- revision of field manuals;
- developing OVUM training curricula, standards, media, materials,
priorities; and
- M & E program design and reporting.
The work of the consultants team was also highly appreciated by project
staff, trainers, and other counterparts.
3.27    A trickle irrigation consultant assisted Baluchistan in 1983 and 1984
for four man-months in designing several demonstration installations. These
designs had to be modified later and USAID provided further assistance in
1985 and 1986 (para 3.13).
Monitoring and Evaluation (M & l)
3.28    The SAR assigned the task of project monitorinS to the provincial
OVWM Directorates while evaluation and some limited monitoring was assigned



-13-
to a national agency. Both activities were to be coordinated and supervised
by the FWMC. This arrangement did not work satisfactorily. The monitoring
was entirely geared to implementation of civil works and physical activities
and not to project performance with regard to agriculture. The data col-
lected thus had gaps that limited their usefulness for evaluation. Vital
parameters such as irrigation command area, length of watercourse, and loca-
tion in fresh or saline groundwater area were not recorded. The evaluation
consultants carried out their activities too much in isolation from the
Directorates.
3.29    The results of the evaluation studies were published in four reports:
- Pre-Improvement Evaluation. September 1984.
- Semi-Annual Report - One. September 1984.
- Semi-Annual Report - Two. January 1985.
- Final Report, Vol. I and II. December 1985.
3.30    The SAR had envisaged a sample of 100 watercourses including the 45
already covered under the Pilot Project. In fact, the sample for NWFP,
Punjab and Sind included 45 watercourses (20 regular technology, 25
accelerated improvement, no controls) and that for Baluchistan 1S (ten
improved -- both technologies - and five controls). The M & e of the Pilot
Project's watercourses was continued as a separate exercise until 1984.
While it was agreed to conduct the M & E on a limited number of sample water-
courses but in great detail, the study did not provide enough evidence that
the choisen samples were representative. NWFP for one, because of its
heterogeneous irrigation infrastructure, cannot be represented by only two
watercourses of which none is located in the area where the largest number of
watercourses has been improved. 1/
3.31    The field surveys focussed on assessment of physical works and con-
veyance efficiencies and gave less emphasis to the agro-economic,
socio-political and institutional aspects. Results and interpretations are
therefore of limited use for the overall assessment of project impact. The
results regarding irrigation water savings through regular (renovation) and
accelerated improvement under the Pilot Project and OFWM-I are shown in Table 2.
1/ The districts of Bannu, Mardan and Peshawar account for 66X of all water-
courses renovated, but the samples are located in Swat and Kohat.



-14-
Table 2: AVERAGE OVERALL DELIVERY EFFICIENCY OF WATERCOURSES ()
Regular Technology            Accelerated Improvement
After                           After
Pre-Project  2 Years   Gain    Pre-Project  2 Years   Gain
Pilot Project               61        72        11        n.a.        n.a.     n.a.
OFWI-I
- NWFP, Punjab, Sind        64        73         9         67          72         5
Control    Improved            Control      Improved
- Baluchistan               64        66         2         15          36        21
3.32    The evaluation report does not address the effect of increased mogha
discharge capacities as a result of renovation, which seems to have been
significant in many Punjab schemes. It also provides no reference to PLL and
its effect on water use efficiency and crop production.
3.33    As the evaluation report readily admits, its agro-economic part
suffers from the availability of only one year's data to reflect changes due
to improvement works. The results nevertheless show a tendency towards
increased land utilization, an increase in cropped area, and a modest move
towards high delta crops.
3.34    The evaluation of the performance of the water users associations in
implementation as well as O&N of works concludes that they (1) have played
their expected role during implementation, but (2) despite their legal status
have not been able to assume many of the post-improvement responsibilities
intended to be delegated to them, including adequate 0 & H. 1/
11 Fortunately, the fact that WUAs did not play their expected role in
watercourse maintenance does not mean that no maintenance has been done.
The final project evaluation report (Vol. I, page III-32) states that
"only 2 watercourses out of 4n have been reported to be maintained
through the WUAs whereas 37 are being maintained by the farmers on their
own and one by traditional khal committee."



-15-
Project Cost and Financing
3.35    The actual cash cost of the project (excluding farmers' labor) was
Rs 601.4 million (US$44.2 million) compared with an appraisal estimate of Rs
782.8 million (US$79.1 mi.lion).  Total project cost, including farmers'
labor, amounted to Rs 804.1 million (US$59.2 million) against Rs 1,104.6
million (US$111.6 million) estimated at appraisal. Details are in Annex 1,
Tables 1 and 2. The main reasons for this reduction in project cost -- in
spite of higher than expected physical .chievements -- were (a) lower than
expected physical contingencies, (b) smaller than estimated increases in
local material costs, and (c) a substantial devaluation of the Rupee since
appraisal.
3.36    As a result of the above changes, the share of the cofinanciers in
total cost increased by 11.5Z (IDA) and 7Z (IFAD) in spite of cancellation of
part of the IFAD loan (SDR 1.6 million) and IDA credit (SDR 7.5 million). On
the other hand, farmers' share declined while that of Government stayed
roughly the same (see Table 3). Details on the utilization of the IDA and
IFAD funds are in Annex 1, Tables 3 and 5.
Table 3: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal                    PCR
Rs Million   Percent      Rs Million   Percent
IDA                                  405.9       36.7         387.8 a/      48.2
IFAD                                 118.8       10.8         143.4 b/      17.8
Farmers' Cash Contribution           170.7       15.5          10.4 c/       1.3
Government                            87.4        7.9          59.8          7.5
782.8       70.9         601.4         74.8
Farmers' Labor                       321.8       29.1         202.7 c/      25.2
Total                      1,104.6       100.0         804.1       100.0
a/ SDR 25.92 million.
b/ SDR 8.91 million.
cl Breakdown tentative.
The IDA Credit
3.37    For the reasons given in para 3.35 combined with delays in the
recruitment of consultants and ICB procurement of vehicles, disbursements
lagged substantially behind appraisal estimates. By December 1984, the
original closing date, SDR 18.9 million (60X of appraisal target) had been
disbursed. By the revised closing date, December 1985, disbursements had
increased to SDR 22.6 million (68X). With the final disbursement on August



-16-
22, 1986, the total amount reached SDR 25.9 million (78%). A summary is in
the Basic Data Sheet, details are in Annex 1, Tables 3 and 4.
Procurement
3.38    The procurement of vehicles and trickle irrigation sets through ICE
was the responsibility of the FWMC, while the OFWM Directorates were respon-
sible for procurement of other equipment and materials. Except for some
initial difficulties in procuring the necessary number of precast pucca
nuccas, particularly in NWFP and Baluchistan, the OFWM Directorates faced no
major problems. Their procurement planning was timely, and through their
encouragement many firms have taken up the manufacture of pucca nuccas of
good quality.
3.39    However, difficulties arose in the ICB pro-urement of vehicles.  The
FWMC first delayed the invitation of tenders until November 1982 and then
followed a bid evaluation procedure which did not conform with IDA require-
ments. Discussions between IDA and the FWMC and then re-evaluation took a
long time. The vehicles therefore reached the project area only in PY3.
Another problem was encountered in the procurement of trickle irrigation sets
where the manufacturer had shipped some faulty and incomplete components.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Project Coordination
4.1     The performance of the FWMC in coordinating project activities was
weaker than expected. The delays it caused in procuring vehicles through
ICB, recruiting consultants, reporting project progress, and transferring IDA
funds from the Civil Works Imprest Account to the provincial subaccounts
posed problems in project implementation.  These problems were pointed out by
IDA supervision missions and the concerned implementing agencies. The FWMC
was also slow in submitting disbursement applications, particularly in the
initial phase, and did not succeed in keeping consolidated project accounts.
The reason for these shortcomings was lack of experience as the FWMC had been
newly created under the Pilot Project. However, additional reasons were the
lack of clear directives to staff and lack of continuity in staffing. At
project completion, the posts of two directors and the accountant were not
filled.
Implementing Agencies
4.2     Overall, the performance of the OFWM Directorates was very satisfac-
tory in spite of some difficulties faced during implementation due to the
late arrival of vehicles. The Directorates rapidly increased their implemen-
tation capacity by establishing the necessary number of field teams (whose
composition is shown in Annex 2, Table 5) and exceeded the original physical



-17-
targets. However, being charged with a large program of civil works, they
paid less attention to the agricultural aspects of the project including land
and water management. Since after renovation the field teams had to move
quickly to the next watercourse, the agricultural staff within the teams
could not play its intended role; its major activities were organizing
farmers in WUAs and selecting demonstration plots. Project monitoring was
restricted essentially to civil works. The Directorates also did not succeed
in liaising with the WUAs after watercourse improvement and to encourage them
to hold their statutory meetings and keep records as expected because they
were busy establishing new WUAs.
4.3     Other shortcomings relate to the selection of watercourses for
renovation. Although from the point of view of logistics and cost it would
have been advisable to renovate clusters of watercourses, the project for
equity reasons followed a "first-come-first-served" policy which resulted in
wide scattering of sites and non-improvement of some deserving watercourses.
The advantage of this app--oach was that it further spread the knowledge about
the project in the farming community. The Directorates also lacked the staff
and equipment to carry out discharge measurements required to establish
priority according to water saving potential.
4.4     Selection criteria for lining were generally adequate, leading to the
maximization of benefits within existing financial constraints. It is
regrettable, however, that no records were kept distinguishing renovations in
fresh and saline groundwater areas. The imposition of financial ceilings for
renovation in Sind and Baluchistan was impractical as it often overruled
sound technical considerations.
Extension Service and Coordination between OFWM and Extension Directorates
4.5     The project was only partially successful in disseminating water
management extension messages integrated with the package of agricultural
extension messages to farmers. This was mainly due to shortage of trained
staff and lack of coordination between the OFWM Directorates and the Agricul-
tural Extension Service.
4.6     Punjab's Extension Directorate was not able to place 100 Field Assis-
tants for about 30 months under the OFWH Directorate as planned at appraisal
(SAR, para 5.06). Attempts by the OFWM Directorate to recruit Field Assis-
tants directly were not successful until PY3, the reasons given being a
shortage of specialized personnel and preference for more permanent jobs.
Similar difficulties were experienced by the OFWM Directorates in the other
provinces. There was a high turnover of Agricultural Officers, mainly due to
promotions to higher posts. The situation was particularly serious in
Baluchistan where less than 50X of the approved posts of Agricultural
Officers were filled throughout the project period. The shortage of staff
was worse in areas not covered by the T & V system. The majority of Agricul-
tural Officers and Field Assistants under the OFWI Directorates and Extension



-18-
Service staff have not attended training courses on water management and
agricultural extension. Lack of mobility in non T & V areas restricted
extension visits to once or twice per crop season. Not all Agricultural
Officers had motorcycles and most Field Assistants had to depend on public
transport. As OFWM staff concentrated its efforts on achieving the project's
physical targets, there was little time for water management extension or
guiding WUAs in the maintenance of renovated watercourses. Extension staff
in T & V areas did not consider OFWM as a priority undertaking. Few WUA
officials were selected as contact farmers.
Reporting and Accounting
4.7     The FWMC was responsible for the submission to IDA of consolidated
annual work plans, quarterly and annual progress reports, and annual audit
reports of consolidated project accounts. There were delays in PY1 and PY2,
but with the assistance of the supervisory consul,ants the FWMC regularly
submitted annual work plans as well as progress reports. In contrast, it did
not succeed in establishing consolidated project accounts, although the OFWN
Directorates had regularly submitted their certified accounts. At project
completion, no consolidated expenditure figures existed, and the figures for
this report had to be compiled from provincial sources.
Cost Recovery
4.8     In Punjab, the first repayments of farmers' share in the cost of
construction materials were due in late 1983-84. Of the first to sixth
installments due for improvements made in 1981-82 (Rs 927,919 each), the OFWM
field staff collected 96Z, 90%, 83%, 68%, 54%, and 24%. Recoveries of the
amounts due for 1982-83 improvements (Rs 1,784,413 each installment)
decreased from 86% for the first, over 66Z and 49Z for the second and third,
to 24% for the fourth installment. Of the first two installments due for
1983-84 improvements (Rs 2,858t918 each), only 59% and 27% were collected.
This declining tendency became evident early on and was a matter of concern
for supervision missions and provincial officials. OFWM staff suggested that
collection would be more efficient if the number of field staff could be
increased or this responsibility was given to the Revenue Department. The
Planning and Development Department assured the last regular supervision
mission (April-May 1986) that it would look into this matter and recommend a
solution. In Sind, cost recovery was to start in mid-1985. Necessary infor-
mation was given to the Revenue Department, which is charged with collection
in the province. In October 1986, the Director OFWM wrote the FWMC that
procedures were being streamlined by the Revenue Department, expressed hope
that once this was done recovery would not be any problem, and promised to
report on recovery progress from time to time. So far, no such report has
been received. Clearly, close follow-up will be necessary in both provinces
if acceptable recovery rates are to be maintained.



-19-
Compliance with Covenants
4.9     The only main covenant consistently not complied with was the provi-
sion of audit reports to IDA not later than six months after the end of the
fiscal year. In January 1986, the following reports were outstanding: Pun-
jab - 1984-85; Sind - 1981-82; 1/ Baluchistan - 1981-82, 1984-85; FWMC -
1981-82 through 1984-85. While all these reports were eventually received,
the FWMC did not produce any consolidated project accounts (para 4.7) for
audit, but IDA did not insist and dropped this requirement in the follow-on
project.
';. iROJECT IMPACT
General
5.1     The project has made substantial efforts to introduce improved
methods of saving irrigation water with the participation of farmers and thus
increase crop production. It has propagated a system which raised the tech-
nical knowledge of project staff as well as farmers and has increased the
sense of cooperation among farmers in tackling their common problems.
Agricultural Impact
5.2     While the project's positive impact on agricultural production is
unequivocally acknowledged by farmers and other observers, it is difficult to
measure with reasonable accuracy because of lack of data. The OFWM Direc-
torates did not keep records on agricultural changes, and the results of the
evaluation reports are inadequate for this purpose (paras 3.28-3.31). The
assessment of agricultural impact therefore required additional information
to be collected from farmers in the project area, and this was done to the
extent possible by the PCR mission. The estimates of cropping intensities
and yields in this report are based on past investigations on water savings,
crop statistics, and interviews with farmers.
5.3     Cropped Area and Cropping Intensity.  Based on data provided by the
supervisory consultants, the command area of the renovated watercourses is
about 1.58 million ac, double the area estimated at appraisal. The mission
estimates that the total cropped area has increased from 1.95 million ac (P)
to 2.22 million ac (W) (Annex 3, Table 1). Table 4 compares estimates of
cropping intensities in SAR, PCR and evaluation report.
1/ Unofficial copy on file.



-20-
Table 4: CROPPING INTENSITIES (1)
SAR                      PCR              Evaluation Report a/
W/O    W      I  bi  W/O        w        1  b/   W o  w         I  b7
Punjab        120   138    18        125 c/  142 c/  17         148   153     5
Sind          131   148    17        108 cl  124 cl  16         141   143     2
NWFP          158   175    17        172      181      9        142   153    11
Baluchistan    91   114    23         82       91      9       n.a.  n.a.   n.a.
Project       123   141    18        124      141     17       n.a.  n.a.   n.a.
a/ See para 3.29.
b/ Incremental (W - WIO).
cl Estimates based on 75% FGW and 25% SGW in Punjab and 65Z FGW and 352 SGW in
Sind.
5.4     Cropping Pattern.  As estimated at appraisal, there were no sig-
nificant changes in cropping pattern. Wheat, cotton, sugarcane and fodder
(berseem) remain the major crops in Punjab and Sind, wheat and sugarcane in
NWFP, and wheat and paddy in Baluchistan. With the increase in cropping
intensity, there was an increase in area planted to all major crops. The
greatest increase was in paddy but the area planted is relatively small.
Area increases for other crops were: sugarcane - 17X; fodder - 17Z; cotton -
11; and wheat - 10%. Details are in Annex 3, Table 3.
5.5     Crop Yields and Production.  There was considerable variation in
yields even among different watercourses in the same province and hence
average yields had to be estimated by the mission (para 5.2). Generally, PCR
yield estimates are higher than SAR estimates, and so are yield increases
over the "without project" situation. Although these increases may not be
all attributable to the project, the fact remains that project activities
were the most important development effort in the renovated watercourse
commands. The yield increase was highest for paddy (15-18%), followed by
wheat (14%), sugarcane (12%), fodder (1OZ) and cotton (10%).
5.6     The combination of larger project area and higher crop yields has
resulted in higher production than estimated at appraisal for all major crops
except paddy. A summary is given in Table 5, details are in Annex 3, Table 2.



-21-
Table 5:  INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION ('000 t)
SAR                                 PCR
Without    With      Increment      Without    With      Increment
Paddy          113.5      145.9       32.4            45.1      69.9        24.8
Wheat          252.9      279.9       27.0           520.3     655.6       135.3
Cotton          56.9       73.2       16.3           191.1     231.9        40.8
Sugarcane      455.1      881.0      425.9         3,574.8   4,761.3    1,186.5
Maize a/         3.2        2.7      - 0.5            19.5       24.4        4.9
Fodder           -          -          -           1,513.7   1,939.6       425.9
Gram  b/         -          -          -              75.2      103.1       27.9
a/  Representing all other crops in NWFP.
Representing all other crops in the other three provinces.
Social Impact
5.7     The project has produced considerable social benefits.  Prominent
among them is the reduction in the inequity of water supply between head and
tail end farmers within the watercourse command. The increased water supply
coupled with the installation of pucca nuccas has also dramatically reduced
litigation in the farming community. Illegal interference with water flow
has virtually ceased after renovation. The installation of pucca nuccas has
also reduced the manpower requirements for irrigation. The removal of the
large heaps of silt which had accumulated on the watercourse banks over the
years has made it easy t? walk along or cross a watercourse, and the culverts
have facilitated access of carts, tractors and trucks to the villages and farms.
Technological Change
5.8     The project has introduced a new way of improving a watercourse as a
more lasting alternative to the traditional method of desilting. The tradi-
tional method sometimes results in lowering the watercourse level thereby
putting some fields out of coumand. The project has also introduced better
water control through pucca nuccas as an alternative to the cutting of
embankments and subsequent closing with borrow fill. The technology is fully
accepted and appreciated by farmers and there are indications that some are
undertaking these improvements at their own expense with technical assistance
from the OVUM Directorates. Precision land levelling is also gaining ground,
particularly with farmers who have large fields. These farmers frequently
use PLL after havinj experienced the resulting reduction of irrigation time,
water wastage, and ialinity build-up.



-22-
5.9     The project has also enhanced construction techniques in the villages
where masons worked on given specifications, under the guidance of project
engineers, which was a novelty to most of them. Similarly, the project
helped to develop local expertise in producing precast pucca nuccas, and
about a dozen firms are now competing to supply good quality products.
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
Farm Incomes
6.1     At appraisal, ten illustrative farm models (of which six for Punjab)
were prepared to assess the financial benefits of watercourse renovatipn.
Following the example of the appraisal of the Second On-Farm Water Management
Project (Cr. 1603-PAK), the PCR mission prepared six farm models:  two models
each for Punjab and Sind, and one each for Baluchistan and NWFP.  As the size
of the model farms was not specified in the SAR, the PCR mission assumed all
model farms to have 12 ac. 1/ Cropping patterns, yields, inputs and prices
used in the analysis are shown in Annex 3, Tables 3-5. The following table
compares the resulting farm incomes with those estimated at appraisal.
1/ In reality, farm size in NWFP is much smaller, but this does not
invalidate the results.



-23-
Table 6: NET ANNUAL FAMILY INCOME AFTER FINANCING (Re)
Increment
Without    With    With/Without
S A R
Farm Model; Dominant Characteristics
Punjab
Cotton/wheat; FGW; tubewell
-  Head farmer                              19,150    20,340          6
-  Middle farmer                            16,990    19,730         16
Tail end farmer                            14,585    18,820        29
Cotton/wheat; FCW; no tubewell              12,105    16,590        37
Cotton/wheat; SGW                           15,440    21,690        40
Rice/wheat; FGW; tubewell                   14,175    15,995         13
Sind
Cotton/wheat; FGW; tubewell                 16,785    18,400         10
Cotton/wheat; SGW                           11,725    15,960        36
North West Frontier Province
Mixed cropping; FGW; no tubevell             7,51.0    10,200       36
Baluchistan
Rice/wheat; FGW; no tubewell                11,570    16,240        40
PCR
Farm Model
Punjab  -  FGW                                 14,6t30    18,630        27
-  SOw                                 12,635    15,620        24
Sind    -  FGW                                 19,400    22,825         18
-  SGW                                 12,775    16,910        32
North West Frontier Province (FCW)             20,065    23,345         16
Baluchistan (PFW)                               3,760      4,905        30



-24-
6.2     The PCR estimates of income increases are higher than the SAR's for
FGW in Punjab (27% against average 20%) and Sind (18% against 10%), roughly
of the same order for Sind SGW, but lower for Baluchistan, Punjab SOW and
NWFP, particularly the latter two models. In any case, these financial
benefits together with the non-quantified benefits (para 5.7) provided suffi-
cient incentive for farmers to participate in the project, as evidenced by
the strong demand for watercourse improvements.
Economic Performance
6.3     Project costs and benefits in constant 1985-86 terms are given in
Annex 4, Table 1, and the resulting economic rates of return for the four
provinces and the project as a whole are in Table 7. These rates are lower
than estimated at appraisal but still very satisfactory. The main reason for
the difference are the significantly lower commodity prices now expected to
prevail.
6.4     As at appraisal, the economic re-evaluation is based on the benefits
derived from watercourse renovation only. Crop production inputs and outputs
are those shown in Annex 3. Project life is 20 years, and each group of
farms is assumed to reach full development in two years. Farmgate prices for
internationally traded goods are based on the most recent IBRD commodity
price forecasts (Annex 4, Tables 2-8), while those of non-traded goods are
based on domestic prices (Annex 3, Table 5). The market wage of farm labor
has been discounted by 25Z to allow for periods of slack demand. Domestic
prices and price components have been translated into border prices by apply-
ing a standard conversion factor of 0.9. Past expenditures have been
restated in 1985-86 terms using the general consumer price index.
Table 7:  ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN (Z)
SAR      PCR
Punjab                                     42       30
Sind                                       47       24
North West Frontier Province               62       26
Baluchistan                                76       27
Total Project                              45       29
6.5     Sensitivity tests show that (1) with future benefits up 20% or future
costs down 202 the project's rate of return would be about the same as
estimated at appraisal, while (2) with future benefits down 10% or future
costs up 10 it would drop to around 20%, and (3) with unchanged future
benefits and future costs up 20% it would decline to about 10%, the assumed
opportunity cost of capital in Pakistan. It thus appears unlikely that the



-25-
project will not stay economically viable during the remaining 14 years of
its life.
VII. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
Project Design and Appraisal
7.1     Given the poor state of water management below the mogha, IDA's
decision to assist in implementing a water management project, where low
investment could benefit large numbers of people in a short time, was sound.
However, the project as appraised was designed primarily to implement civi'
works with rather weak provision for non-structural OFWM activities.  This
includes a rather vague definition of the role of the demonstration plots,
and the extent to which the extension service would be involved in their
functioning.  Thu8, there was little scope for effective dissemination of
improved water management practices.  In retrospect, it appears that the
appraisal was overenthusiastic about the quick and large benefits that would
be generated by the civil works and less concerned with field water manage-
ment and the impact of watercourse renovation on the parent canal system.
Supervision
7.2     Between September 1981 and May 1986 IDA sent ten supervision missions
(excluding the PCR mission). The relatively frequent one-man missions (four
out of ten) do not seem to have permitted close follow-up of important issues
while simultaneously giving full attention to the various technical and
organizational aspects of the project. Reporting sometimes suffered as well
(Basic Data Sheet, page 2). While supervision missions were helpful in
identifying problems, they were not forceful enough in trying to have them
solved, limiting themselves to reminding GOP occasionally of their existence.
As a result, weaknesses in the accelerated watercourse improvement program
were not remedied and the ineffectiveness of the PWMC remained. It appears
that the success in implementing civil works induced missions to somewhat
overlook other aspects.
VIII. MAIN ISsUeS
8.1     The following two issues are most important for the future develop-
ment program.  Watercourse renovation in many cases has increased the mogha
discharge which will affect the water distribution system beyond the chak
level. In aggregate, individual renovations would sooner or later lead to
imbalances in the water distribution of parent canals and tail end farmers
in unimproved watercourse commands would be faced with reductions in their
share of water. This points to the need for a more systematic approac' which
would involve renovation of watercourses in clusters covering entire command
areas of minor or distributary canals. This approach would also improve
logistics and would be more cost effective. But it would mean a departure



-26-
from the present practice of spreading resources widely in favor of resource
concentration on selected areas. If such an approach is unacceptable, the
watercourse renovation program should at least avoid changes in mogha dis-
charge.
8.2     Through lining and other watercourse improvements, the project has
facilitated maintenance by reducing the quantities of silt to be excavated.
It has also brought new specific maintenance requirements involving struc-
tural repairs or replacements which necessitate cash expenditures. Adequate
repair and maintenance are prerequisites for a reasonable length of service
life of the watercourses, and active involvement of the WUAs is therefore of
great importance. But the WUAs tend to neglect maintenance, as was already
experienced in the Pilot Project. The WUA ordinances provide sanctions if an
individual member or an Association fails to maintain watercourse improve-
ments. The OFWM Directorates have the authority to undertake such main-
tenance and assess the member or WUA for the costs inccurred. However, use
of these provisions should be an exception rather than the rule. 1/ The issue
of tenant farmers and landlords unwilling to participate in watercourse
construction and subsequent maintenance should be addressed as soon as pos-
sible. Otherwise, WUAs in areas dominated by non-owner farmers will be
ineffective with the consequence that maintenance will suffer and the effects
of the project will be diminished.
8.3     So far, there are no readily available solutions to the above main-
tenance questions. In discussions, the FWMC and OFWM Directorates appear
to contemplate, among other possibilities, undertaking repair and maintenance
through private contractors or through the employment of watercourse main-
tenance officers. The costs incurred would be recovered from the WUAs. The
feasibility of such proposals should be carefully examined before any deci-
sion is taken.
IX. CHANCES IN THE FOLLOW-ON PROJECT
9.1     The Second On-Farm Water Management Project (OFWM-II) was launched in
FY86. Its size was determined by available domestic funding. IDA made a
credit of SDR 34.8 million (Cr. 1603-PAK) in Septembet 1985 which became
effective in February 1986. The three-year project generally is a continua-
tion of OFWM-I.  The rationale for continued IDA involvement is that the
project provides the "opportunity to consolidate the gains achieved under
earlier projects and to make necessary changes in the program to efficiently
translate water savings into increased agricultural production, improve
1/ So far, the provisions have not been applied.



-27-
maintenace of renovated watercourses, and emphasize a broader range of OFWM
practices". 1/ Changes introduced under OFWM-II are:
(a)  Farmers and OFWM officials in Punjab, Sind and NWFP were not
satisfied with the accelerated watercourse improvement program QLnder OFWM-I.
This dissatisfaction resulted chiefly from inadequate engineering associated
with the installation of pucca nuccas. Therefore, OFWM-II includes a pilot
program for renovating a limited number of watercourses without lining in the
three provinces (Punjab and Sind 20 each, NWFP 10) "to determine the relative
efficiency of this approach." 2/ The pilot program is identical with the
regular renovation program except that no lining is provided. In Baluchistan,
fully engineered watercourses without lining had been constructed in the
Indus Plain and OFWM officials reported farmers' acceptance of this less
costly technology. Consequently, about 60 watercourses are to be renovated
without lining under OFWM-II in Baluchistan's Indus Plain.
(b) No further assistance is provided for trickle irrigation
demonstrations because the Government did not request the inclusion of such a
component.
(c) To overcome the weaknesses in non-structural water management
services and to enable the Extension Service to assume an expanded role --
working with WUAs and farmers on watercourse maintenance, operation of
demonstration plots, and introduction of improved OFWM practices - the
project provides specialized staff training and better coordination between
Extension and Water Management.
(d) The performance of the WUAs is to be improved through provision
of an additional Water Management Officer (Agr) per field team, plus two
assistants.
(e) Arrangements have been made for better project monitoring and
evaluation. Unfortunately, this does not include the continuation of
monitoring and evaluation of the OFWM-I sample watercourses.
(f) In line with government policy to move toward greater farmer
participation in the financing of OFWM works, partial recovery of the cost of
construction materials has been introduced in NWFP (10%) and Baluchistan
(25%, excepting water storage tanks), and the recovery rates in Punjab and
l/ SAR, para 1.26.
2/ SAR, para 2.08.



-28-
Sind have been increased to 252 and 30Z, respectively. 1/
X. CONCLUSIONS
10.1    The OFWV-I project was very successful in meeting its physical
targets. The reasons for this success were the keen interest of the farmers
and strong government support. The project's popularity with farmers
increased steadily as is demonstrated by the number of requests for
watercourse renovation. Project benefits are substantial, and beneficiaries
are enthusiastic in recounting the positive changes resulting from the
renovation of their watercourses.
10.2    These were impressive accomplishments, but the project should also
have given adequate attention to the management of land and water in the
renowated watercourse commands. Irrigation efficiencies were expected to be
increased through improved water scheduling and application methods, and
these together with improved farming practices were to be shown on the
demonstration plots and propagated through extension. Because of poor
coordination and shortage of qualified staff, this objective was not fully
achieved.  To truly deserve its name, the on-farm water management program
should increase efforts to strengthen water management extension in future
projects.
10.3    The watercourse renovation program is well recognized in the farming
comnunity, and it appears that a more systematic approach to renovation could
now be introduced. This would require a comprehensive inventory of all
watercourses, and the establishment of rational selection criteria. It would
also be necessary to address the issue of increased mogha discharges
resulting from renovat5on, as the cumulative effect could negatively alter
water distribution in the command areas of minor or distributary canals. To
ensure the program's sustainability over the longer term, it is required to
make the WUAs play their intended role in the maintenance and repair of works,
and the declining tendency in cost recovery must be reversed.
1/ The difference in rates between Punjab and Sind is due to the fact that
Punjab farmers hire the masons while Sind farmers do not.



- 29 -
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, CR. 1163-PAK
List of Annexes
Annex 1
Table 1  -  Project Costs by Implementing Agency
Table 2  -  Appraisal and PCR Cost Estimates
Table 3  - Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Table 4  -  Disbursements by Category
Table 5  -  Utilization of IFAD Loan 83-PA
Annex 2
Table 1  -  Targets and Achievements
Table 2  - Watercourse Renovation - Physical Achievements
Table 3 -  Water Users' Associations Registered
Table 4  -  Training Program
Table 5  -  Composition of Field Teams
Annex 3
Table 1  -  Estimated Cropped Area
Table 2  -  Estimated Crop Production
Table 3  -  12 Acre Farm Models
Table 4  -  Crop Production Inputs per Acre
Table 5  -  Financial Prices
Table 6  -  12 Acre Farm Models - Cash Flow
Annex 4
Table 1  -  Economic Benefits and Costs
Table 2  -  Economic Price of Paddy
Table 3  -  Economic Price of Wheat
Table 4  -  Economic Price of Maize
Table 5  -  Economic Price of Cotton
Table 6  -  Economic Price of Sugarcane
Table 7  -  Economic Price of Urea
Table 8  -  Economic Price of DAP
Annex 5
Performance Ratings in Supervision Reports



Annex I
Table I
- 31 -
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAR
Project Costs by Implementing Aaencv
(PCR Estimates, Rs Million)
1981-82   1982-83   1983-84   1984-85   1985-86        Total
Civil Works                             53.49      86.22    115.20      88.99      61.55     405.45
Punjab                               46.61      71.90     95.66      67.14      53.15     334.46
Sind                                  2.00       9.02      9.63      11.80       1.40      33.85
NWFP                                  4.68       4.47      5.10       6.82       4.00      25.07
Baluchistan                           0.20       0.83      4.81       3.23       3.00      12.07
Farmers' Labor 1/                       26.75      43.12     57.61      44.50      30.78     202.76
Punjab                               23.31      35.95     47.83      33.57      26.58     167.24
Sind                                  1.00      4.51       4.82       5.90      0.70       16.93
NWFP                                  2.34       2.24      2.55       3.41       2.00      12.54
Baluchistan                           0.10       0.42      2.41       1.62       1.50       6.05
Equipment                                4.91       4.79      6.73       4.09       0.13      20.65
Punjab .1                             3.52       1.56      0.25         -       0.13        5.46
Sind   2/                             0.96      0.50         -        1.04         -        2.50
NWFP   2/                             0.43       1.92      1.03       0.70         -        4.08
Baluchistan  /                          -        0.81      0.69 3/   2.35 3/       -        3.85
FWMC                                    -          -       4.76 4/      -          -        4.76
Supervision and Administration          11.95      24.83     27.62      34.25      12.22     110.87
Punjab                                6.46       7.65     11.25      11.48      4.82       41.66
Sind                                  2.87       6.23      7.41       3.71       1.51      26.73
NWFP                                  2.04       2.54      3.45       3.54       0.61      12.18
Baluchistan 5/                        0.58       0.90      1.91       1.90      0.97        6.26
FWMC                                    -        7.51 6/   3.60       8.62      4.31 7/   24.04
Training                                 1.37       2.09       2.45      2.48       1.06       9.45
Punjab                                1.33       2.02      2.39       2.43       1.06       9.23
Sind                                  0.02      0.04       0.02       0.01         -        0.09
NWFP                                  0.02       0.03      0.04       0.04         -        0.13
Technical Assistance and Evaluation    6.15         2.75      6.65      16.84      22.55      54.94
FWMC 8/                               6.15       2.75      6.65      16.84     22.55       54.94
Total Cost                             104.62    163.80    216.26    191.15    128.29        804.12
Punjab                              81.23    119.08    157.38    114.62       85.74      558.05
Sind                                 6.85     20.30      21.88      27.46      3.61       80.10
NWFP                                 9.51      11.20     12.17      14.51      6.61       54.00
Baluchistan                          0.88       2.96      9.82       9.10      5.47       28.23
FWMC                                 6.15     10.26      15.01      25.46     26.86       83.74
1/  50% of civil works, as estimated by supervisory consultants and OFWM Directorates.
2/  Excluding vehicles procured by the FWMC.
3/  Including trickle irrigation sets procured by the FWMC.
4/ Essentially vehicles procured under ICB.
5t Includes some local training.
6/  Including 1981-82 costs.
7/ First semester; assumed to be 50% of 1984-85 costs.
8/ Based on IDA/IFAD disbursement records.



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
Appraisal and PCR Cost Estimates
Appraisal                            PCR
Re Million  US$ Million  %      Rs Million  US$ Million 1/ Z
Civil Works (excluding
Farmers' Labor)                431.33        43.57    39        405.45        30.00       51
Equipment                          20.15        2.04      2        20.65         1.62        3
Supervision and Administration   77.25          7.80      7       110.87         8.12       14
Technical Assistance               27.83        2.81      2        54.94         3.79        6
Training                            6.61        0.67      1          9.45        0.70        1
Physical Contingencies             56.32        5.69      5           -           -          -
Price Contingencies               163.31       16.50    15            -           -          -
Total Cash Cost            782.80        79.08    71        601.36        44.23      75
Farmers' Labor                   321.80        32.50    29        202.76        15.00       25
Total Project Cost       1,104.60       111.58   100        804.12        59.23     100
t    f
1/  Converted from Rs using the annual exchange rates given in the Basic Data Sheet.            



33 -                               Annex 1
33                                Table 3
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, CR. 1163-PAK
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Original Allocation 1/   Final Allocation
Categorl                                 SDR 'Ono    Percent      SDR '000   Percent
(1) Civil Works
(a) Initial Deposit in Civil
Works Imprest Account            1,870         5.6          354 2/    1.4
(b)  Other                           26,210       78.5        20,872      80.5
(2)  Equipment and Vehicles                1,630         4.9          769        3.0
(3) Salaries and Allowances of
Professional On-Farm Water
Management Field Staff                  810         2.4        1,298        5.0
(4)  Technical Assistance                  2,030         6.1        2,632       10.1
(5) Unallocated                              850         2.5          -          -
Total            33,400       100.0       25,925 3/  100.0
/ Development Credit Agreement dated August 19, 1981, Schedule 1.
2/ Fully recovered.
3/ The balance of SDR 7,475,000 was cancelled effective August 23, 1986.



- 34 -                               Annex 1
Table 4
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAR
Disbursements by Categorv
(SDR '000)
Cat. 1-A   Cat. 1-B   Cat. 2   Cat. 3   Cat. 4         Total
1/         2/         31        4/       5/
Sep. 1986            354 6/   20,872      769      1,298      2,632      25,925
June 1986            354       20,872      760     1,298      2,542      25,826
Mar. 1986            354       18,502      743     1,124      2,443      23,166
Dec. 1985            354       18,465     737      1,091      1,966      22,613
Sep. 1985            354       17,925     737        977      1,869      21,862
June 1985          1,788       15,898      737       920      1,773      21,116
Mar. 1985          1,788       15,309      737       833      1,629      20,296
Dec. 1984          1,788       14,075     672        770      1,607      18,912
Sep. 1984          1,788       12,974     663        639      1,467      17,531
June 1984          1,788       10,237      386       570        862      13,843
Mar. 1984          1,788        8,077      296       473        754      11,388
Dec. 1983          1,788        6,621      295       381        675       9,760
Sep. 1983          1,788        4,918      214       255        591       7,766
June 1983          1,788        3,188      186       220        436       5,818
M,ar. 1983         1,788        1,813      186       160        400       4,347
Dec. 1982          1,788            0        0        70        306       2,164
Sep. 1982          1,788            0        0         0        306       2,094
June 1982 7/       1,788            0        0         0        306       2,094
Mar. 1982              0            0        0         0          0           0
1/ Initial deposit in Civil Works Imprest Account.
2/ Civil Works.
l} Equipment and vehicles.
4/ Salaries and allowances of OFWM field staff.
51 Technical assistance.
6/ Fully recovered.
7/  The credit became effective on March 30, 1982, and the first disbursement
was made on April 8, 1982 (Cat. 1-A).



- 35 -                               Annex 1
Table 5
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
Utilization of IFAD Loan 83-PA
(SDR '000)
Category                               Allocation 1/    %       Disbursement     2
I   Civil Works
(a) Initial Deposit in Civil
Works Imprest Account           400           3.8          325        3.7
(b)  Other                         5,300          50.5       3,494        39.2
II   Salaries and Allowances of
Professional On-Farm Water
Management Field Staff             2,600          24.8        3,555       39.9
IiI   Local Consultants' Services           800          7.6          831        9.3
IV   Local Training                        800          7.6          704        7.9
V   Unallocated                           600          5.7           -          -
TOTAL         10,500         100.0        8,909 2/   100.0
1/ Loan Agreement dated June 18, 1982, Schedule 2.
2/ The! undisbursed balance of SDR 1,591,000 vas cancelled.
I



- 36 -                                         Annex 2
Table 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAR
Targets and Achievements
Targets             Actuals   Actuals as x of TarMets
PC-1 plus     through                PC-i plus
Unit     SAR       Extension    Dec. 1985       SAR    Extension
Punjab
Field Teams                               No.       40 1/        40            46         115       115
Watercourse Renovation                    No.    1,500        2,400         2,794         186       116
Accelerated Watercourse Improvement       No.   12,000       15,000        14,664         122        98
Precision Land Levelling                  ac    16,000       25,000        31,418         196       126
Demonstration Plots                       No.    1,500        2,657         3,434         229       129
Sind
Field Teams                               No.        15          15            15         100       100
Watercourse Renovation                    No.       360         360           427         119       119
Accelerated Watercourse Improvement       No.    2,100        2,100         2,170         103       103
Precision Land Levelling                  ac    13,350       13,500        17,566         132       130
Demonstration Plots                       No.        18          24            37        206        154
l
NWFP
Field Teams                               No.         5 j         5             5         100       100
Watercourse Renovation                    No.       150         250           269         179       108
Accelerated Watercourse Improvement       No.    1,200        1,200         2,054         171       171
Precision Land Levelling                  ac     5,500        3,750         5,858        107        156
Demonstration Plots                       No.      150          250           218         145        87
Baluchistan
Field, Teams                              No.       10 I/        10            10        100        100
Watercourse Renovation                    No.        55         129           141         256       109
Accelerated Watercourse Improvement       No.    1,200          606           296          25        49
Precision Land Levelling                  ac     1,900        1,451         1,075          57        74
Demonstration Plots                       No.       55          111            47         85         42
Water Storage Tanks                       No.        37          95           116         314       122
Total Proiect
Field Teams                               No.       70           76            76        109        109
Watercourse Renovation                    No.    2,065        3,139         3,631         176       116
Accelerated Watercourse Improvement       No.   16,500       18,906        19,184         116       101
Precision Land Levelling                  ac    36,750       43,701        55,917        152        128
Demonstration Plots                       No.    1,723        3,036         3,736        217        123
Water Storage Tanks                       No.        37          95           116        314        122
1/ Ten additional teams.
2/ Two additional teams.
3/ Three additional teams.



ON-YAR8 N WAIU KWAGUIKUT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
TarReta and Achievements
1981-82            1982-83             1983-84             198 4 851 -
Unit   Appraisal  Actual Ausrial Actual Anooraisal Actual  Target ;J Actual  Tenuet / 4 tual
Field TeMs                             No.       35         40       40        40        40        40         40        40       40       46
Watercourse Renovation                 No.      360        386      500        629      640       792        650       633      250       354
Accelerated Watercourse Improvement   No.    2,000       1,817    4,000     4,082    6,000      6.045     3,000      2,720       -         -
Precision Land Levelling               ac     4,400      6,201    5,200     6,833    6,400      7,402    5S000       6,614    4,000    4,368
_snatration Plots                      No.      360        132      500       824       640       902       650        711      507       865
Field Temw                             No.       15         15       15         15       15        15         15        15                 15
Watercourse Renonation                 No.       105        69      120        121      135       116                  s8                  36
Accelerated Watercourse loprovment   No.         500        80      700        468      900       972                  650       -         -
Precision Land Levelling hc                   3,700      1,744    4,450     3,160    5,200      6,240                6,422       -         -
Doustrstion Plots                      No.         5         2        6         12        7        15          6         8       -         -
Fleld TS-                              No.        4          4        5          5        5         5          5         5        5         5
Watercourse Renovation                 No.        30        40       46         54       74        64         60        71       40        40
Accelerated Watercourse Improvement   lo.        300       933      400        531      500       590         -         -        -         -            -4
Precision Land Levelling               ac     1.500      1.001    1,800     1.354    2,200      1,548                1,570                385
Oeonstration Plots                     No.       30         21       46         50       74        75                   59       .13
Field Teas                             No.        8          5       10          8       10         8         10        10       10        10
Watercourse Renovation                 No.        12        14       18          8       25        36         70        54                 29
Accelerated Watercourse Improvement   No.        300        -       400         43      500       170        200        20                 63
Precision Land Levelling               ac       430        445      600       244       870        70        260       116                200
Demonstration Plots                    No.        12         7       18         12       25        15                    8                  5
Water Storage Taks                     go.         8         8       12          9       17        29         48        40                 30
Total Pro;ect
Field Tems                             No.       62         64       70        68        70        68        70         70                 76
Watercourse Renovation                 No.       507       509      684        812      874     :,OS         .         843                459
Accelerated Watercourse Improvement   No.    3,100       2,830    5,500      5,124    7,900     7,777                3,390                 63
Precision Land Levelling               ac    10,030      9,391   12,050    11,591   14,670    15,260                14,722             4.953
Demonstration Plots                    no.      407        162      570       898       746     1,007                  786               8b3
Water Storage Tanks                    No.         8         8       12          9       17        29         48        40                 30
ma
F First half.                                                                                                                                     0 I-
U   For project extension as provided by OlIN Directorates.



ON-FDK WATER YANMGKENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAR
Watercourse Renovation - Physical Achievements Li
No. of Renovated Watercourses  Renovated Lenith of Watercourses (kn)                              No. of
Reported by    Certified by                     Earthen                   Outlets,               Buffalo   Syphons/  Kiscell.
Directorate.    Consultants          Linina  Imurovement  -Total           Checks   Culverts    Baths   Aaueducts Structures  J
Ptniab
1981-82                     386             393                 251      1,343       1,594        18,415       1,589        19        10          -
198U-83                     629             608                382       1,843       2,225        18,850       1,906        23        76        210
1983-84                     792             813                551       2,514       3,065        32,500 *    2,109         44        60        342
1984-85                     633             681                397       1,837       2,234        22,000 *    1,445         17        46         48
1985-86                     354             326                227         926       1.153         9.800 *       790        .7         6         42
2.794           2,821              1,808       8,463      10,271       101,565       7,839       110       198        642
(18S)      (822)
Sind
1981-82                      69              69                  18*       116*        134*        2,300 *       118*       -         -           27*
1982-83                     121             121                  40        267         307         3,747         249        -         -          40
1983-84                     116             118                  13         85          98         4.800 *       169        -          4         91
1984-85                      85              88                 40         251         291         3,260 *       196        -         -            7
1985-86                      36             ..       .. .. .. 
427             396                111         719         830        14,107         732        -          4        165
(131)      (87S)
NW?
1981-82                      40              37                  12         70          82         2,230         126        -          8         77         1
1982-83                      54              53                 15          89         104         2,769         109        -         -         120
1983-84                      64              68                  20         -           20         3,660          84        -          8        174
1984-85                      71              71                  27         -           27         4,500 *       144        -         18        192
1985-86                      40              40                  13         -           13         2.059         124        -          2        J1
269             269                 87         159         246        15,218         587        -        36         636
(35Z)      (651)
Baluchistan
1981-82                      14              14                  4          35          39            36          -         -         -          35
1982-83                       8               9                   3         23          26            60          -         -          2          -
1983-84                      36              33                  12         -           12           271           5        -          2           4
1984-85                      54              40                 16          -           16           345          21        -         -            6
1985-86                    2-                29                  9 *        -            9*          200*          8*       -         -            3
141             125                 44          s5         102           912          34        -         4          48
(432)      (571)
Total Proiect
1981-82 to 1985-86        3,631           3,611              2,050       9,399      11,449       131,802       9,192       110      242       1,491
(181)      (821)
568 m    2,603 *    3,171 a           37           3
LI  Based on supervisory consultants' records.                                                                                                                 '
.) Canal crossing slabs, drops, steel gates (Sind), retaining vails.
*   Estimates based on saples.



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER NANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAR
Water Users' Associations Registered
1981-82             1982-83              1983-84               1984-85               1985-86                Total
SAR    PCR          SAR    PCR           SAR    PCR            SAR    PCR            SAR    PCR            SAR    PCR
Punjab                 360   1,436 (386)  500   2,467 (629)  640   3,341   (792)   -    2,269 (663)    -            803 (354)   1,500  10,316 (2,794)
Sind                   105       -  ( 69)  120       160 (121)  135      124   (116)   -        159 ( 85)    -       -  ( 36)      360      443   (427)
NW"                      30      40 ( 40)   46        54 ( 54)   74       64   ( 64)   -         71 ( 71)    -       40 ( 40)      150      269   (269)
L
Baluchistan             12       22 ( 14)   18        17 (  8)   25       65   ( 36)   -        153 ( 54)    -       -  ( 29)       55      257   (141)
Total Project          507   1,498 (509)  684   2,698 (812)  874   3,594 (1,008)   -    2,652 (843)                 843 (459)   2,065  11,285 (3,631)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are numbers of watercourses renovated.
im 



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
Training Program 1/
Water Ngmt.
Dpty. Dir. or   Water Mgmt.        Supervisorl                         Field               VUh
Team Leader       Officer         AR. Officer   Sub-Engineer       Assistant            Chairman            Total
SAR    PCM       SBA   PCR         SAR   PCR      SAR    PCM       SAR    PCR         SAR      PCR       BAR       PCR
Puniab
1981-82            6       1       20       -        60      9       120    171        80      -        360       553      646       734
1982-83            2     11        20       5        20      -        20    151        80      -        500       726      642       893
1983-84            -       -       20      39          -    22        20     96        40    197        640       640      720       994
1984-85            -      6         -       6         -    47          -    100         -                                     - -    _754  -  969
8     18(46)  i6       5O  (92)  80    78        160    518       200    253       1,500    2.673    2,008    3,590
Sind
1981-82            -       -       30      37         10     3         -      -        40      -        105         -       185       40
1982-83            -      -        30      52         10     3         -      -        40       -       120         -       200       55
1983-84            -       -        -      12         10     3         -      -        40      -        135         -       185       15
1984-85            -      -         -       -          -     -        _       -         -      -          -                   -       _>
-      - (15)  i6  ioi (1OS)  30          9 (15) -         -      120       - (15)  360          -      570       110           °
1981-82            3      4         3       4          3     4         4      8         4      16        30        40        47       76
1982-83            1       1        3       1          1     1         4      2         4      4         46        54        59       63
1983-84            1      -         3       -          I     -         4      -         4      -         74        64        87       64
1984-85            -       -        -       -          -     -         -      -         -       -         -        71         -       n1
5      5 (5)    9       5  (10)   5       S (5)   12      10 (10)  12      20 (20) T50        229       193       274
Baluchistan
1981-82            3      -         -       -         2      -         4      -         7      -         12         -        28        -
1982-83            2      -         -       -          2     -         3      -         7      -         18         -        32        -
1983-84            9       1        -       -          2     -         3      -         6      -         25         -        38        1
1984-85            -      9 1                          -     4                1         -      --                   2         -       16
7     10 (10)   -       -          6     4 (4)3/ 10        1 (10)  20       -(39)   55           2       98        17
Project Total       20      33      129    156         121    96       182    529       352    273      2,065    2,904    2,869    3,991
VJ  Including refresher training for some staff of existing field teams.
1/  Only four posts filled out of ten approved.
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate staff availability.



-41 -                             Annex 2
Table 5
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, CR. 1163-PAK
Composition of Field Teams
Punlab       Sind        NWFP    Baluchistan
Assistant Director              1           1            1           1
(Team Leader)
Water Management Officer        2           2            1           1
Agricultural Officer            1           1            i           1
Sub-Engineer 1/                 4           4            2           4
Field Assistant                 4           2            2           2
Support Staff                   6           6            4          10
Total                   18          16          11           19
1/ Also called supervisor or survey engineer.



- 42 -
Annex 3
Table I
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, CR. 1163-PAK
Estimated Cropped Area
(Thoue:ind Acres)
Cropped Area
Command
Area                  SAR                       PCR
SAR    PCR     Present Without   With    Present Without   With
Punjab           604   1,282!    674        723      833    1,594    1,605    1,824
Sind             144      206      186      188      213       224      223      256
NWFP               53      65       84       84       93       111      112       118
Baluchistan       22       23       20       20       25        16       19        21
Total Project    823   1,576       964   1,015    1,164    1,945    1,959    2,219



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAR
Estimated CroiD Production
(Thousand Metric Tons)
Punjab                 Sind                  NWFP             Baluchistan              Total Proiect
With    Without      With    Without       With    Without      With    Without       With     Without   Incr.
Paddy                 SAR      124.0      100.9       10.4       5.3        -         -          11.5      7.3       145.9    _113.5        32.4
PCR      58.9       38.2        -          -         6.1       3.5         4.9       3.4        69.9      45.1       24.8
Cotton                BAR       48.4       34.6       24.8      22.3        -         -           -        -          73.2       56.9       16.3
PCR     217.7      179.8       14.2       11.3       -         -           -         -        231.9      191.1       40.8
Sugarcane             SAR      276.2      182.6     280.7      140.3      324.1    132.2          -        -         881.0      455.1      425.9
PCR   3,208.7   2,219.5   1,107.6        954.2     445.0    401.1          -         -      4,761.3   3,574.8   1,186.5         1
Wheat                 SAR      226.5      213.6       41.5       26.5       9.4      10.7         2.5       2.1      279.9      252.9       27.0      jS
PCR     559.9      447.1       46.6       33.2      39.3      31.2         9.8       8.8      655.6      520.3      035.3
Fodder (Berseem)      SAR        -                     -         -          -         -           -        -           -          -          -
PCI   1,535.2   1,211.2       379.6      279.6      23.5      21.5         1.5       1.4    1,939.6   1,513.7       425.9
Gram                  SAR        -          -          -          -         -         -           -         -          -          -          -
PCR      89.1       65.1       13.0        9.5       -         -           1.0       0.6      103.1       75.2       27.9
Maize                 SAR        2.3        2.7        -         -          0.3       0.5         0.1       -          2.7        3.2      - 0.5
PCR       -          -          -          -        24.4      19.5         -         -         24.4       19.5        4.9
1tJ



PAKISTAN
ON-FARK WUAER NANAGMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAZ
12 Acre Farm Models
Puniab                                Sind                       NVwP           Baluchistan
FeW              5GW                FOW             Sow
Cropped  Yield  Cropped  Yield    Cropped  Yield  Cropped  Yield    Cropped  Yield    Cropped  Yield
Area   (ks/ac)  Area   (ks/ac)    Area   (ks/ac)  Area   (k c/ac)    Area                         (k/j    Area   (bflac)
lice (Basmati)         P     0.7       535     -        -         -        -       -        -         -        -         -        -
WIO   0.7        545     -        -         -        -       -       -          _       _          _       _
V     1.0      625      -        -         -                                   -       -          -       -
Rice (Improved)        P     0.1       925     -        -         -        -       -        -        0.7       920      1.8       985
W/0    0.1       955     -        -         -        -       -       -         0.7      930       1.8       990
V     0.1    1,100      -       -          -       -        -       -         1.0    1.120       2.2    1,180
Cotton                 P     3.8       470    2.9       440      1.0       500    1.9       415       -        -         -        -
V/0    3.8       480    2.8      450       1.1       510    2.0      420        -       -          -        -
V     4.2       520    3.2      500       1.4      550    2.0       470        -       -          -       -
Sugarcane              P     1.2   15,500    1.4   14,500        3.8   14,000    5.8    9,100        4.6   15,500        -        -
V/0    1.2   16,000    1.7   15,000        4.0   14,200    6.0    8,900        4.6   16,000        -        -
V     1.6   18,300    1.9   17,000        4.0   15,300    7.0   10,100        4.6   17,750        -       -
wheat                  P     5.4       750    5.3       680      3.1       780    1.0       630      8.6       620      6.0       690
V/0    5.4       800    5.4      700       3.2       820    1.0      650       8.8      650       6.5       720     >
v     5.9       920    6.0       780      3.8       940    1.5      750       9.6      750       6.5      800
Fodder (Berseem)       P     1.2    9,500    1.2    8,300        1.6   12,100    1.0    8,700        0.4    9,300       0.1    7,000
V/0    1.2   10,000    1.1    8,500        1.6   12,600    1.0    9,100        0.4    9,870       0.1    7,300
w     1.4   11,000    1.2    9,400        1.9   13,600    1.5   10,100        0.4   10,800       0.1    8,220
Other 1/               P     3.3      1l0    1.8        170      4.3       175    1.9       150      6.0       585      0.8       170
i/O    3.3       210    2.0       180      3.7       185    1.9      160       6.0      595       1.8       175
V     3.6       255    2.6      225       4.6       220    1.4      200       6.0      745       2.4       210
All Crops              P    15.7             12.6               13.8             11.6               20.3                8.7
V/0   15.7             13.0               13.6             11.9               20.5               10.2
V    17.8             14.9               15.7             13.4               21.6               11.2
Annual Cropping        P     131              105                115               97                169                 73
Intensity (1)        W/0    131              108                113               99                171                 85
V     148              124                131              112                180                 93
I/  Gram for Punjdb, Sind and Baluchistan, maize for NWFP.



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMEMT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
Crop Production Inputs ver Acre
Total
Land                                                 Irritation  Hired    Family   Financial
Preparation       Seed     Urea       DAP    Pesticides  Charge    Labor    Labor        Costs 1J/
(Re)     (kg/cuttings) (kg)        (kg)      (Re)       (Rs)      (Mdy)    (Ndy)       (Rs)
Puniab FGW
Basmati             - with         320            B        75         50         50        31         17        11       1,159
- without     320            8         50         50         0         31         16       10        1,024
Other Rice          - vith         320            8        50         50         50        31         26        16       1,312
- without     320            8         50          0         0         31         24       14        1,087
Cotton              - with         300           10        75         50       400         32         15        14       1,482
- without     300            8         50         50       350         32         14       12        1,333                   --
Sugarcane           - with         360       2,400        120         50        200     --62          23        18       1,770
- without     360        2,000         75         50       100         62         21       18        1,485
Wheat               - with         320           50        75         50         60        20         19         6       1,315
- vithout     320           50         50         50         0         20         17        5        1,145
Fodder (Berseem)   - with          240            8         0         50          0        10          3       22          502
- without     240            8          0          0         0         10          3       19          377
Cram                - with         240           14         0         50          0        19          6        14         646
- without     240           14          0          0         0         19          4       14          471
Puniab 8GW
Cotton              - with         300           10        50        50       370          32         14        12       1,367
- without     300            8         50         0       300          32         12       10        1,108
Sugarcane           - with         360       2,400         80        50       200          62         22       18        1,649
- without     360        2,000         50        50       100          62         20       18        1,400
Wheat               - with         320           50        50        50          0         20         16         6       1,120
- without     320           50         50        50         0          20         14        6        1,070
Fodder (Berseem)   - with          240            8         0        50         0          10          2        18         477
- without     240            8          0         0         0          10          2       17          352
Gram                - with         240           14         0        50         0          19          4        14         596
- without      240          14          0         0         0          19          2       14          421
Sind FGVW
Cotton              - with         280           12        75        50       400          33         16        16       1,502
- without     280           12         50        50       350          33         15       15        1,367
Sugarcane           - with         360       2,240         75        50       100          64         20       18        1,478
- without     360        2,240         50        50        50          64         19       18        1,343
Wheat               - with         280           50        75        50         60         19         19         9       1,274
- without     280           50         50        50         0          19         18        8        1,129
Fodder (Berseem)   - with          240           12         0        50         0          10          5       24          578
- without     240           12          0        50         0          10          5       23          578
Gram                - with         240           14         0        50         0          19          3       16          571
- without     240           14          0         0         0          19          3       14          446
1/ Input prices from Annex 3, Table 5.



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAR
CroP Production Inputs per Acre
Total
Land                                                 IrriRation  Hired    Family   Financial
Preparation       Seed     Urea       DAP    Pesticides  CharRe    Labor    Labor        Coat8 1/
(Rs)     (kg/cuttings) (kg)        (kg)       (RO)      (Rs)      (idy)    (idy)       (Rs)
Sind SGW
Cotton              - with         280           12         50        50        365         33         12       10        1,307
- without      280           12        50          0        300        33         10         9       1,067
Sugarcane          - with          360        2,680         75        50-.       80         64         16       14        1,388
- without      360       2,680         50         50         50        64         15        14       1,273
Wheat               - with         280           50         50         50         0         19         14        4        1,029
- without      280           50        50         50          0        19         12         4          979
Fodder (BerSeem)   - with          240           12          0        50          0         10          3       19          528
-without       240           12         0          0          0        10          2        18          378
Gram                -with          240           14          0          0         0         19          3       15          446
-without       240           14         0          0          0        19          2        14         421
NWFP
Other Rice          - with         320            8         50         50        50         30         26       16        1,311
- without     320             8        50          0          0        30         24        14       1,086
Sugarcane           - With         300        2,200        100        50        200         66         21       19        1,603
- without     300        2,200         50         50        100        66         20        19       1,358
Wheat               - with         240           40         50         50         0         19         17        5        1,037
- without      240          40         50         50          0        19         16         4       1,012
Fodder (Berseem)   - with          240           12          0        50          0         10          3       22          528
- without      240          12          0          0          0        10          3        20         403
Maize               - with         240           20         50          0         0         20         17       15          849
- without      240           20         0          0          0        20         15        15         679
Baluchistan
Other Rice          - with         320            8         50        50         50         31         27       17        1,337
- without      320            8        50          0          0        31         25        15       1,112
Wheat               - with         240           50         50         50         0         19         18       10        1,089
- without      240           50        50         50          0        19         16        10       1,039
Fodder (Berseem)   - with          240            8          0        50          0         10         2        17          477
-without       240            8         0          0          0        10          2        15          352
Gram                -with          240           14          0         0          0         19          3       15          446
-without       240           14         0          0          0        19          3        13         446
1/  Input prices from Annex 3, Table 5.                                                                                                   [ lw
Im.



-47-                                Annex 3
Table 5
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
Financial Prices
1985-86
Unit       Rupees
Outputs
Paddy (Basmati)                 kg          2.5
Paddy (other)                   kg          1.4
Wheat                           kg          2.0
Seed cotton                     kg          5.2
Sugarcane                       kg          0.3
Fodder (Berseem)                kg          0.2
Maize                           kg          1.6
Gram                            kg          5.4
TnDuts 1/
Basmati seed                    kg          3.5
Other rice seed                 kg          2.0
Wheat seed                      kg          2.7
Cotton seed                     kg          7.0
Derseem seed                    kg          6.5
Maize seed                      kg          2.2
Sugarcane cuttings j/           kg          0.4
Gram seed                       kg          8.0
Urea                            kg          2.4
DAP                             kg          2.5
Tractor hire                   hour        60.0
Hired labor                  man-day       25.0
1/ The cost of pesticides and irrigation water charges by
crop are given in Annex 3, Table 4.
2/ Six cuttings per kg.



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER BANAGEKENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAR
12 Acre Farm Nodels - Cash Flow
(1985-86 Rs)
Without                                  PYS and      Without                                  PY8 and
Project      .lL    .i2        PY3-7      Later       Proiect     FY         PY2      PY3-7     Ltcr
Puniab PCW                                            Puniab SGW
Value of crop production                    31,115    37.900    40,750    40,750    40,750         25,575    30,850    32,785    32,785    32,785
Crop production costs                       15,865    21,135    21,135    21,135    21,135         12,490    16,350    16,350    16,350    16,350
Watercourse 06K costs  /                                  -                     _ _                                                   210       225
Net benefit before financing                 15,250    16,765    19,615    19,405    19,390        13,085    14,500    16,435    16,225    16,210
Debt service on short-term credit V             570       760        760       760        760         450       590        590        590       590
Repayment of part of investment                                                115        -                                           115
Net benefit after financing                  14,680    16,005    18,855    18,530    18,630        12,635    13,910    15,845    15,520    15,620
Sind iGtf                                             Sind SGW
Value of crop production                    32,935    38,250    40,140    40,140    40,140         25,130    31,465    32,890    32,890    32,890
Crop production costs                       13,065    16,580    16,580    16,580    16,580         11,925    15,290    15,290    15,290    15,290        1
Watercourse 06K costs                           _-_                             110       140                                         110       140
Net benefit before financing                19,870    21,670    23,560    23,450    23,420         13,205    16,175    17,600    17,490    17,460        ts
Debt service on short-term credit 3            470        595        595       595        595         430       550        550        550       550
Repayment of part of investment 4/              -                    -          90        -           -          -         -           90       -
Net benefit after financing                 19,400    21,075    22,965    22,765    22,825         12,775    15,625    17,050    16,850    16,910
NM?                                                Baluchisitan
Value of crop production                    40,935    46,380    48,480    48,480    48,480         13,700    15,165    16,920    16,920    16,920
Crop production costs                       20,145    23,945    23,945    23,945    23,945          9,595    11,140    11,140    11,140    11,140
Watercourse 06  costs a                                                       295        330                                         350       475
Yet benefit before financing                20,790    22,435    24,535    24,240    24,205         4,105      4,025      5,780      5,430     5,305
Debt service on short-term credit 2/           725        860        860       860        860         345       400        40Q       400        400
Yet benefit after financing                 20,065    21,575    23,675    23,380    23,345          3,760     3,625      5,380      5,030     4,905
1/  8S of civil works excluding farmers  labor.
V   122 interest p.a. on 3OZ of production costs.
3   202 of cost of materials in ten semi-annual installments.
g/  25Z of cost of materials in ten semi-annual installments.                                                                                       cm



PAKISTII
81F400  MATER HNAOJMNT P901C1. CR. 1163-PAR
Eeom~ic Benfits SWd Costs
(In. Billion Rs)
198    19M    1984   1995   1986   1987   198    1989   1990   1991    192   199    199    1995   199    1997   199    199   208    2001
Incremntal Beneit, /a          111.6  291.9  543.3  67.2.5  "6.66485.7  712,3  806.1  924.6  1002.5  1000.3  999.4  999.0  1000.8  1003.1  1005.8  1007-4  1009.4  1010.7 1013.0
liwesteet costs                64.6  103.5  140.3  124.0   77.7                          -          -       --          -              -       -       -       -      -       -
Incremetal Ptodutiohi Cutst    96.9  244.0  450.8  609,2  633.1  609.0  636.2  672.8  710.7  747.1  740.9  750.5  75.7  755.   758.0  761.9  766.1  769.7  773.4  775.
bet Incremental B.uiti         -49.9  -55.5  -47,7  -60.7  -44.2   36,7   76.1  133.4  205.9  255.5  251.4  248.8  246,3  245.7  2245.1  243.9  241.3  239.7  237.2  237.3
Internal Rat of Reurn a 30.42
Sind
Inc -mNo   taBnefits            16.5   42.2   70.5   81.1   80.3   79.3   80.9  102.3  118.1  127.8  126.6  125.5  124.5  123.7  123.5  123.9  124.0  124.3  124.5  124.9
Inrwetmt costs                 12.2   20.8   22.0   17.5    8.1                  -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -
Incrmumtl Piodutim Costs    13.5   35.5   60.0   77.4   77.1   74.3   77.4   81,9   87.5   90.9   91.1   91.3   91.5   99.8   92.1   92.6   93.1   93.5   94.0   94.3
Not Incremetal BeneIts          -9.2  -14.0  -11.4  -13.7   -4.9    5.8   11.4   20.4   30.7   36,9   35.5   34.2   33.0   31.9   31.4   31.3   30.9   30.8   30.5   38.5
Intemal LRe t.o Retram   24.21
Inrementa Benefits              7,5   13,7   22.8   27.7   26.9   22.0   24.3   29.6   36.0   39,5   39.0   38.4   37.8   37.4   A7.3   37.5   37.7   37.9   38.1   38.3
Invesment Closts                5.0    4.3    5.8    6.8    4,3          -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -
lucammnta Proikwttl  Costs      5.9   10.1   16.9   23.8   24.1   22,9   24.4   26.5   29.1   30.5   30.4   30.3   30.2   30.1   30.1   30.3   30.6   30.8   31.0   31.1
Net focre-Meta  Neneits        -3.3   -0.7   -0.7   -2.9   -1.5   -0.2   -0.1    3.2    6.9    9.0    8.5    0.1    7.7    7,3    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.1    7.2
Intennl Rate of Retrn   25.51
Bai.gfstm.
Incmremntl Beneits              0.5    1.1    2.3    4.6    6.0    5.8    5.7    6,0    6.4    6.6    6.7    6.7    6.7    6.7    6.7    6,7    6.8    6.9    6.8    6.8
lnvesta.nt Costs                0.9    0.5    2,2    3.8    2.2                  -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -
Incementa  Production Cost,     0.4    0.6    1.6    3.0    3.7    3.9    4.1    4.3    4.4    4.5    4,5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.t.    4.6    4,6
Net Innctemnta 111efits        -0.7    0.1   -1.5   -2.2    0.1    1.9    1,6    1.7    2,0    2,2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.1    2.2    2.2    2.?    2.2    2.2    2.2
Internl Rate of RetUm - 27.42
Total Pro,jct
Incremena Bueits             1I6.2  348.9  638.1  785.9  779.7  753.6  831.3  944.1  1085.1  1176.5  2172.5  1169.9  1168.0  1168.6  1170.6  1173.9  1176.0  1178.4  1100.1  1183.0
lnvestmm  costs                82.6  129.   170.3  152.0   92.2          -       -       -      -  -        -       -       -          -       -       -       -      -       -       -
Incremental Production Costs   116,7  298.1  529.3  713.4  738.0  710.2  742.2  785.4  839.6  873.0  874.9  976.6  87.8  801.5  884.8  989.3  894.4  898,6  M903.   9M5.
Not Incrmentsl Beneits         -63,1  -70.2  -61.4  -79.5  -50.5   43,!   89.0  159,7  245.5  303.5  297.6  293.4  28992  287,1  285.8  204.6  2,81.6  279.8  277.1  277.2
Internal Rate of Return * 29.32
/a All entries tor fiscal vwars sisine in calendar mars sdiom,
Nav lit 198 14112



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, CR. 1t63-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of Paddy
_______________________
(Export Parity)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__----------------------------------------------
Thai 5% Broken, FOB Bangkok /a
______________________________
Current USS per metric ton. FY basis lb      388    285      265     234     214    211     221     243     261      272
Constant FY86 USS per metric ton /c          408     305     290     257     214     193     194     203     218      227
x Adjustment factor (1.034)  /d              422     316     300     266    221      200     201     210     225     235
Exchange rate                                 16      16      16      16      16      16      16      16      16      16
FOB Karachi, constant Rs per metric ton    6807    5097    4834    4295    3562    3219    3241    3392    3635    3794
Handling and transportation between
port and market /e                          -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430
Market price of rice                        6377    4667    4404    3865    3132    2789    2811    2962    3205    3364
Milling costs                               -370    -370    -370    -370    -370    -370    -370    -370    -370    -370
Ex-mill price of rice                       6007    4297    4034    3495    2762    2419    2441    2592    2835    2994
Equivalent price of paddy (.67)             4025    2879    2703    2342    1851    1621    1636    1736    1899    2006
Handling and transportation between
farmgate and mill /f                         -70     -70     -70     -70     -70     -70     -70     -70     -70      -70      V
Farmgate price of paddy                     3955    2809    2633    2272    1781    1551    1566    1666    1829    1936
I-A



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of Paddy
_______________________
(Export Parity)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__----------------------------------------------
Thai 5% Broken, FOB Bangkok /a
______________________________
Current USS per metric ton, FY basis /b       279     287     295     303     311     320     328      337     346     350
Constant FY86 USS per metric ton /c           229     230     231     232     233     234     235      235     236     237
x Adjustment factor (1.034)  /d               236     238     239     240     241     242     243      244     244     245
Exchange rate                                  16      16      16      16      16      16      16       16      16      16
FOB Karachi, constant Rs per metric ton     3813    38341   3857    3877    3890    3905    3920    3929    3940    3948
Handling and transportation between
port and market /e                           -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430
Market price of rice                         3383    3404    3427    3447    3460    3475    3490    3499    3510    3518
Milling costs                                -370    -374)   -370    -370    -370    -370    -370    -370    -370    -370
Ex-mill price of rice                       3013    3034    3057    3077    3090    3105    3120    3129    3140    3148
Equivalent price of paddy (.67)             2018    203:3   2048    2062    2070    2081    2091    2096    2104    2109
Handling and transportation between
farmgate and mill /f                          -70     -70     -70     -70     -70     -70     -70      -70     -70     -70
Farmgate price of paddy                      1948    1963    1978    1992    2000    2011    2021    2026    2034    2039
/a  IBRD, January 17, 1987.
lb  Years ending in calendar years shown.
/c  Based on IBRD index, January 17, 1987.
/d  For differences in quality and marketing; based on FY78-84 relationship between export unit prices (weighted average of
Basmati and other rice) and prices of reference quality.
/e  Average for the four Provinces; adjusted by SCF of .9.
/f  Average distance assumed to be 10 km, half of which on jnpaved and half on paved roads; adjusted by SCF of .9.
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__----------------------------------------------
May 4. 1987 17:34
*D 1-10
I1%



PIKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEPIENT PROJECT, CR. i163-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of Wheat
(Export Parity)
1982    19813   1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Canadian. in Store. Thunder Bay /a
Current USS per metric ton. FY basis /b        182      169     168      169     167      150     146      161     174      190
Constant FY86 USS per metric ton Jc            191      181     183      196     167      137     128      135     145      150
Exchange rate                                   16       l6      16       16      16       16      16      16       16       16
FOB Karachi, constant Rs per metric ton       3078    2913    2959    2999    2694    2210    2068    2177    2336    2425
Handling and transportation between
port and market /d                            -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430
Market price                                  2648    24813    2529    2569    2264    1780    1638    1747    1906    1985
Handling and transportation between
farmgate and market /e                         -70      -?0     -70      -70     -70     -70      -70     -70      -70     -70
Farmgate price                                2578    2413    2459    2499    2194    1710    1568    1677    1836    1925
OQ w
'-



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, CR. 1163-PAK
Economi. Price of Wheat
_______________________
(Ex3ort Parity)
_______________
-----------------------------------------------------__-------------------_--__------____---_-----_-__--_-------------- -----
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1899    2000    2001
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----_____---_--_--_-_____--------------------
Canadian, In Store, Thunder Bay /a-
----------------------------------
Current USS per metric ton. FY basis /b        183      187     190      193     198     204      210     216      223     226
Constant FY86 USS per metric ton /c            SO      149     149      148     148      149     150     181      162     153
Exchange rate                                   16       16      16       16      16       16      16      16       16      16
FOB Karachi, constant Rs per metric ton       2418    2409    2395    2387    2394    2411    2426    2438    2453    2465
Handling and trareportation between
port and market Id                            -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430
Market price                                  1988    1979    1965    1957    1964    1981    1996    2008    2023    2035
Handling and transportation between
farngate and market /0                         -70      -70     -70     -70      -70     -70      -70     -70      -70     -70
Farogate price                                1918    1909    1895    1887    1894    1911    1926    1938    1953    196S
/a  IERO, January 17, 1987.
/b Years ending in calendar years shown.
/c  Based on I8RD Index, January 17, 1987.
/d  Average for the four Provinces; adjusted by SCF of .9.
/a  Average distance assumed to be 10 km, half of which on unpaved and half
on paved roads; adjusted by SCF of .9.
May 4. 1987 17:34
DCi0 m
:EI!



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAIGEMENT PRO.IECT. CR. 1163-PAK
Econonmc Price of Maize
(Export Parity)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1989    t989    1990    1991
US No. 2 Yellow. FOB Gulf Ports /a
Current US$ per metric ton. FY basis lb          120     123      136      124     100       80      79       96      113      123
Constant FY86 USS per metric ton /c              126     131      149      136     100       73      70       80       94      103
Exchange rate                                    16       16       16       16      16       16       16      16       16       16
FOB Karachi. constant Rs per metric ton        2035    2118    2403    2200    1613    1183    1123    1291    1521    1659
Handling and transportation between
port and market Id                             -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430
Market price                                    1605    1688    1973    1770    1183        753     693      861    1091    1225
Handling and transportation between
faragate and market /e                          -70      -70      -70     -70      -70      -70     -70      -70      -70     -70
Farmgate price                                  1535    1618    1903    1700    1113        683     623      791    1021    1155       L
Q & m
o i-so
o ¢X
I-'



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of Maize
(Export Parity)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996         1997     1998    1999    2000    2001
------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__----------------------------------------------
US No. 2 Yellow. FOB Gulf Ports /a
Current USS per metric ton. FY basis lb            126      129       132      t36      139      143      148      152      157       159   _
Constant FY86 USS per metric ton Ic                103      103       103      104      104      105      106      106      107      108
Exchange rate                                       16       16        16       16       16       16       16       16       16        16
FOB Karachi, constant Rs per metric ton           1658    1659    1669       1676    1681       1690    1704      1716    1725      1734
Handling and transportation between
port and market /d                                -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430    -430
Market price                                      1228    1229      1239    1246    1251        1260    1274      1286    1295      1304
Handling and transportation between
farmgate and market /e                             -70      -70      -70      -70       -70      -70      -70      -70      -70      -70
Farmgate price                                    1158     1159    1169      1176    1181       1190    1204      1216     1225     1234
-------------------------------------------------------------------__-------
/a  IBRO, January 1X, 1987.
lb  Years ending in calendar years shown.
/c  Based on IBRO index, January 17. 1987.
Id  Average for the four Provinces; adjusted by SCF of .9.
/e  Average distance assumed to be 10 km. half of which on unpaved and half
on paved roads; adjusted by SCF of .9.
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__----------------------------------------------
May 4, 1987 17:34
I'O"a S S
{D t 



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROdECT, CR. 1163-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of Cotton
(Export Parity)
_______________
-----------------------------------------------------__----------------------__------------------------------------------_.-------
t982    1983    1984    198g    1S86    1987    1968    1989    1990    1991
------.------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--------------------------------------------------
Mexican. 1-3/32 Inch. CIF N Europe /a
-------------------------------------
Current US$ per metric ton. FY basis /b          1725    1725    1820    1555    1190    1190    1365    1445    1570    1722
Constant FY86 US$ per metric ton /c              1814    1849    1993    1711    1190    1091    1203    1211    1311    1442
x Adjustment factor (.726) /d                    1317    1342    1447    1242     864     792     873      879     S51    1047
Exchange rate                                      16      16      16      16      16      16      16       Is      16      16
FOB Karachi, constant Re per metric ton        21241   21651   23344   20033   13935   12773   14083   14184   1S347   16884
Handling and transportation between
port and market,                                 -200    -200    -200    -200    -200    -200    -200    -200    -200    -200
Ginning, balling, transportation
to market                                        -600    -600    -600    -600    -600    -600    -600    -600    -600    -600
Price at ginnery, per metric ton of lint Ie   20441   20851   22544   19233   13135   11973   13283   13384   14547   16084
Equivalent price of seed cotton (.33)           6746    6881    7439    6347    4335    3951    4384    4417    4800    5308
Cotton Seed Oil /f
__________________
Current USS per metric ton. FY basis              477     487     626     648     457     331      355     415     468     513
Constant Rs per metric ton /g                    8414    8756   11493   11959    7666    5089    5247    5835    6553    7200
Extraction costs /h                              -100    -100    -100    -100    -100    -100    -1OO    -100    -100    -100
Price per metric ton of oil                      8314    8656   11393   11859    7566    4989    5147    5735    6453    7100
Equivalent price of seed cotton (.07)             582     606     797     830     530     349     360      401     452     497
Olloake /1
Current USM  per metric ton, FY basis             236     229     218     177     171     180      185     199     206     209
Constant Rs per metric ton bf cake /1            4003    3950    3843    3141    2758    2661    2622    2691    2767    2823
Equivalent price of seed cotton (.55)            2202    2173    2113    1727    1517    1464    1442    1460    1522    1553
Lint, Oil and Cake
__________________
Price per metric ton of seed cotton              9529    9659   1O350    8904    6381    5764    6186    6298    6774    7358
Handling and transportation between
faragate and ginnery                              -70     -70     -70     -70     -70     -70      -70     -70     -70     -70
Faragate price of seed cotton                    9459    9589   10280    8834    6311    5694    6116    6228    6704    7288
I-'



PAKISTAN
ON-FARH WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of Cotton
(Export Parity)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1906    197    1999    1999    2000    2001
Mexican. 1-3/32 Inch. CIF N Europe /a
-------------------------------------
Current USS per metric ton. FY basis /b          1849    1985    2131    2289    2399    2457    2516    2577    2639    2670
Constant FY06 USS per metric ton /c              1514    1589    1670    1755    1798    1800    1802    1803    1803    1805
x Adjustment factor (.726) /d                    1099    1154    1212    1274    1305    1307    1308    1309    1309    13t1
Exchange rate                                      16      16       16      16      16      16      16       16      16      I6
FOS Karachi, constant Rs per metric ton         17729   18606   19557   20552   21055   21074   21106   21114   21t20   21140
Handling and transportation between
port and market                                  -200    -200    -200    -200    -200    -200    -200    -200    -200    -200
GInning. bailing. transportation
to market                                        -600    -600    -600    -600    -600    -600    -600    -600    -600    -600
Price at ginnery. per metric ton of lint le    16929   17806   18757   19752   20255   20274   20306   20314   20320   20340
Equivalent price of seed cotton (.33)            5586    5876    6190    6516    6684    6691    6701    6704    6705    6712
Cotton Seed Oil /f
Current USS per metric ton. FY basis              547     584     623      665     689     694     699      704     710     712      Ln
Constant Rs per metric ton /g                    7515    7844    8190    8548    8658    8523    831t4   8264    8135    8076
Extraction costs Ih                              -100    -100    -100    -100    -1OO    -tOO    -100    -100    -100    -100
Price per metric ton of oil                      7415    7744    8090    8448    8558    8423    8294    8164    8035    7976
Equivalent price of seed cotton (.07)             519     542     566      591     599     590     581     572      562     558
Ollcake /1
Current US$ per metric ton. FY basis              213     217     222      226     230     234     238      243     247     249
Constant Rs per metric ton of cake /j            2814    2802    2800    2796    2781    2765    2750    2737    2723    2716
Equivalent price of seed cotton (.55)            1548    1541    1540    1538    1S30    1521    1512    1505    1498    1494
Lint. Oil and Cake
Price per metric ton of seed cotton              7653    7959    8296    8647    8813    8801    8794    8781    8766    8764
Handling and transportation between
farugate and ginnery                              -70     -70     -70      -70     -70     -70     -70      -70     -70     -70
Farmgate price of seed cotton                    7583    7889    8226    8577    8743    8731    0724    8711    8696    8694
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__----------------------------------------
/a  tBRO. January 17. 1987.
lb Years ending in calendar years shown.
Ic  Based on I8RD Index. January 17. 1987.
/d  For differences In quality and marketing; based on FY78-84 relationship between export                                        e s
unit prices and prtces of reference quality.                                                                                  to c
/I  Local components adjusted by SCF of .9.                                                                                          c O
/f  Soybean oil (Outch crude. FOB *x-mill) used as proxy.                                                                              X
/g  Using adjuatment factor o1 1.04. same deflator and exchange rate as above; intermediate steps omitted for brevity. 
/h  Adjusted by SCf of .9.
/I  Soybean meal i'S. 44% extraction. CIF Rotterdam) used as proxy.
/j using same deflator and exchange rate as above; internediate steps omitted for brevity.
May 4. 1987 17:34



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. 1163-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of Sugarcane
___________________________
(Export Parity)
_______________
-----------------------------------------------------__----------------------__---------------------------------------------------
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
ISA bOlly Price. FOB and Stowed Carib. Ports /a
-----------------------------------------------
Current USS per metric ton, FY basis /b              280     187      151     103      112     149     209      285     353      389
Constant FY86 USS per metric ton Ic                  294     200      165     113     112      137     184      238     295      326
Exchange rate                                         16      16       16      16      16       16      16       16      16       16
FOB Karachi, constant Rs per metric ton            4749    3224    2668    1819    1798    2203    2970    3847    4753    5255
Handling and transportation between
port and market                                     -300    -300    -300    -300    -300    -300    -300    -300    -300    -300
Market price of sugar                               4449     324    2368    1519    1498    1903    2670    3547    4453    4955
Processing, transportation from
mill to market /d                                  -1200   -1200   -1200   -1200   -1200   -1200   -1200   -1200   -1200   -1200
Ex-mill price of sugar                              3249   1.724    1168      319     298      703    1470    2347    3253    3755
Equivalent price of sugarcane (8.75%)               284      151      102      28      26       62     129      205     285      329
Handling and transportation between
farmgate and mill /e                                 -32     -32     -32      -32     -32      -32     -32      -32     -32      -32
Faregate price of sugarcane /f                      252      119      70       -4      -6       30      97      173     253      297
IDX
o' a



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT. CR. t163-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of Sugarcane
(Export Parity)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000    2001
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__---------------------------------------------------
ISA Daily Price. FOB and Stowed Carib. Ports /a
-----------------------------------------------
Current USS par metric ton, FY basis /b          387    385    383    381        385    395    404    414        425     430
Constant FY86 USS per metric ton ,c              317    308      300    292    289    289        289    290      290    291
Exchange rate                                     16      16      16      16      16      16      16      16      16      16
FOB Karachi. constant Rs per metric ton         5112   4972   4842   4713   4655   4662    4668    4673    4680    4690
Handling and transportation between
port and market                                 -300    -300    -300    -300    -300    -300    -300    -300    -300    -300
Market price of sugar                           4812   4672   4542   4413   4355   4362    4368    4373    4380    4390
Processing, transportation from
mill to market /d                               -1200  -1200   -1200  -1200  -1200  -1200   -1200   -1200   -1200   -1200
Ex-mill price of sugar                          3612   3472    3342   3213   3155   3162    3168   3173    3180    3190
Equivalent price of sugarcane (8.75%)            316    304    292    281        276    277    277       278     278     279
Handling and transportation between
farmgate and mill /e                             -32    -32    -32    -32    -32    -32    -32           -32    -32      -32
Farmgate price of sugarcane /f                   284    272    260    249    244    245    245    246            246     247
/a  IBRD. January 17. 1987.
/b  Years ending in calendar years shown.
/c  Based on IBRO index, January 17, 1987.
Id  Based on Fourth Drainage Project (Credit 13?5-PAK); updated to FY86.
/o  For distances up to ten miles from mill.
/f  Local components adjusted by SCF of .9.
May 4, 1987 17:34
o >



(
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, CR. i163-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of Urea
(Import Parity)
1982    1983    1984    196S    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__------------------------------------------------
Urea (Any Origin), Sagged, FOS NW Europe /a
Current USS per metric ton, FY basis /b            166      147     153      154     122      111      133     170      210      231
Constant FY86 USS per metric ton /c                197      ISO     169      169     122      102      117     142      175      193
x Adjustment factor (1.35) /d                      266     213      226      228     164      137      158     192      237      261
Exchange rate                                       16      16       i6       16      16       16       16      16       16       16
CIF Karachi, constant Rs per metric ton           4293    3431    3649    3677    2646    2215    2542    3103    3817    4213
Plus: Handling and transportation between
port and market                             235      235     235      235      235     235      235      235     235      235
______ -------      -------     -------     .------   -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
Market price                                      4528    3666    3884    3912    2881    2450    2777    3338    4052    4446
Plus: Handling and transportation between
market and farugate                          55       55      55       55       55      55       Ss       S5      55       55
______     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
Farrgate price /e                                4583    3721    3939    3967    2936    2505    2832    3393    4107    4503
Price per 50 kg bag                                229     186      197      198     147      125      142     170      205      225
I-'W1



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROdECT. CR. 1163-PAK
______________________________________________
Economic Price of Urea
______________________
(Import Parity)
_______________
1992   1993   1994   1095   t996   1997   1998 - 1999   2000   2001
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__------------------------------------------------
Urea (Any Origin), Bagged. FOB NW Europe /a
-------------------------------------------
Current USS per metric ton, FY basis /b      233    235    237    239    245    254    264    274    285    290
Constant FY96 USS per metric ton /c           191    188    186    183    183    186    189    192    194    186
x Adjustment fector (1.35) Id                2589    254    251    247    247    251    255    259    263    265
Exchange rate                                 16      16      16      16     16      16      16      16     16      16
CIF Karachi, constant Re per metric ton     4155   4097   4045   3991   3991   4052   4118   4175   4235   4270
Plum: Handling and transportation between
port and market                         235    235    235    235    235    235    235    235    235    235
Market price                                4390   4332   4280   4226   4226   4287   4353   4410   4470   4505
Plus: Handling and transportation between
market and faroate                      55      55      55      s5     55      55      55      55      55     55
Fermgate price /s                           4445   4387   4335   4281   4281   4342   4408   4465   4525   4560
Price per 50 kg bag                          222    219    21?    214    214    217    220    223    226    228
/a  IORD. danuary 17. 1987.
/b Years ending in calendar years shown.
/c  Based on I8RD ind x, damuary 17, 1987.
/d  For differencbs In quality and marketing; based on FY78-84 relationship between fertilizer Import unit prices and prices
of reference quality (weighted average of uree, DAP. TSP and MP).
/0 Local components adjusted by SCF of .9.
May 4, 1987 17:34
m a 



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, CR. 1163-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of DAP
_____________________
(Import Parity)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Diammon1um Phosphate. Bulk, FOB US Gulf /a
Current USS per metric ton, FY basis /b         189      184     187     179     162     157      175     205     231     248
Constant FY86 US$ per metric ton /c             199      197     204     197     162     144      154     172     193     207
x Adjustment factor (1.35) /d                   268     266      276     266     218     194     208      232     260     280
Exchange rate                                    16      16       16      16      16      16       16      16      16      16
CIF Karachi. constant Rs per metric ton        4328    4283    4448    4288    3517    3134    3357    3742    4199    4514
Plus: Handling and transportation between
port and market                           235     235     235      235     235     235     235     235      235     235
Market price                                   4563    4518    4683    4523    3752    3369    3592    3977    4434    4749
Plus: Hand'1ng and transportation between
market and farmgate                        55      55      55       55      55      55      55       55      55      55
Farmgate price /e                              4618    4573    4738    4578    3807    3424    3647    4032    4489    4804
Price per 50 kg bag                             231     229     237      229     190     171      182     202     224     240
P Isel   0
I-a



PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, CR. 1163-PAK
----------------------------------------------
Economic Price of DAP
_____________________
(Import Parity)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__------------------------------------------------
Diammonlum Phosphate, Bulk, FOB US Gulf /a
------------------------------------------
Current USS per metric ton, FY basis /b         259     270      281     294     305     314      324     334     345     350
Constant FY86 US$ per metric ton /c             212     216      220     225     228     230      232     234     235     237
x Adjustment factor (1.35) /d                   286     291      297     304     308     3t1      313     316     318     319
Exchange rate                                    16      16       16      16      16      16       16      16      16       16
CIF Karachi, constant RS per metric ton        4610    4699    4795    4901    4970    5009    5054    5090    5128    5153
Plus: Handling and transportation between
port and market                           235     235     235      235     235     235     235      235     235     235
Market price                                   4845    4934    5030    5136    5205    5244    5289    5325    5363    5388
Plus: Handling and transportation between
market and farmgate                        55      55      55       55      55      55      55       55      55      55
Farmgate price /e                              4900    4989    5085    5191    5260    5299    5344    5380    5418    5443
Price per 50 kg bag                             245     249      254     260     263     265      267     269     271     272
/a  IBRD. danuary 17. 1987.
/b  Years ending in calendar years shown.
Ic Based on IBRO index. January 17, 1987.
Id For differences in quality and marketing; based on FY78-84 relationship between fertilizer Import unit prices and prices
of reference quality (weighted average of urea. OAP, TSP and MP).
/e Local components adjusted by SCF of .9.
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__------------------------------------------------
May 4. 1987 17:34
01W1



- 64 -
Annex 5
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT, CR. 1163-PAK
Performance Ratings in Supervision Reports
First Supervision Report, December 29, 1981 (CS)
Status:  Moderate problems
Trend: -
Types of Problems: Technical, financial, other
Date of effectiveness extended from November 19, 1981, to February 18, 1982,
to accommodate next scheduled ECNEC meeting at which approval of PC-1 docu-
ments is expected.
Fourth Supervision Report, June 13. 1983 (CS)
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: Improving
Types of Problems: Managerial
Fifth Supervision Report, March 11, 1984 (FS)
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: Improving
Types of Problems: Managerial
Seventh Supervision Report, March 19, 1985 (FS)
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: Improving
Types of Problems: Managerial
Eighth Supervision Report, July 22, 1985 (FS)
Status: Problem-free or minor problems
Trend: Improving
Types of Problems:  Financial
Ninth Supervision Report, February 7. 1986 (FS)
Availability of Funds: Adequate funds are provided
Project Management: Capable of doing its job with only moderate problems
Development Impact: Objectives are expected to be substantially achieved
Overall Status: No significant problems
Tenth Supervision Report, July 28, 1986 (FS)
Availability of Funds: Adequate funds are provided
Project Management: Capable of doing its job with only moderate problems
Development Impact: Objectives are expected to be substantially achieved
Overall Status: No significant problems



- 65 -
Attachment I
BORROWER'S COMMENTS
1.
No.            /4/67/DWJ.1, dated peshawar, the                    /1988.
'To
The Irrigation Ungineer,
World Bank Internation fank for                               J I
Reconstruction & Development,                     4
International Development
P.0 Box No1025, Islamabad.                      *    .
Subject:-_     Pakistan - On-f'arm Water atnagen'ent-I Project         -E1\
Credit 1163-4PAJ
'roict Com,lJetion Ueoort.
hiemo:_
Ref.your letter date.1 ±/3/1988.
This Office agrees to tihc completi   roport,received
with your letter unler refetence.
Djirctorj,
hnter Rinairement,
N 1', IV ehn' tar.
N(l            /1A/.7/4/67/iJ;i Dated,1 eshwaiar,tbe
Coipy to the IDeputy Director(PlIeld)P) shituar for inrornation.
JJirector ,
i.ater e.nan,ement,
Nlld'l, IPcshawar.



IBRD 1 93
64-                             O-;  2-                                U S S R. e
P A  K I S T A  N                                     I        , U       -1
CHNA
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT  1163-PAK)
-360                          PROJECT AREA                                        C         [
PROJECT AREAS                                       ,'1
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
o    CITIES AND TOWNS                                  (.
-    NATIONAL ROADS                                  -                     -  .
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS                            c, ) \w  of Co,rpel
RAILROADS
AIRPORTS                                  *LAMA8AD
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                        j.   4                  woip.nd. JAMMUand KASHMR
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
AFGHANIS N                                                                      0
s          6             g       g    X        g        -        ~~~~~~~~I NDIA
ISLAMIC      i                            )                                                                         28
REPUBlIC OF  jB >                       vI              /coD   '*
I RAN        .J                   /                                                      1 00gndiaro    /  o  ,oo    200    3O0  400
I  I  s A t N D < ~~~~~~~sKILOMETERS
t/                 ,                      5D   n do oo  5,0 IqO21,00    250
(    7           /           o    5   ^ >,,}tNawobsklb iel                           MILES
bad                Th. V1bW Swit '$~~~~~~~~~~Oa d mk,
.*e         n    Sea                                                                    0 \     o *
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I /                                       of Sonm mA) a&*~ m  atfnd
X <Xgt   <           \            ~~~~~~~~cn-b nse nw-b
O~O iO-O OP'do I MVW
od.o,n0ocomomimm o
- Arobian   Sea                         t.Y;,                                       =S ebmD
64                               8     ..                      72'
JULY 1987



