Document of                               OPY
The World Bank                       ILE LUUI
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3069-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR AN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 18, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance Of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Rs 9.90          -    US$1.00
Rs 1.00          =    US$0.101
Rs 1 million     -    US$101,000
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                    Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                      SDR 33.4 million (US$41 million equivalent).
Terms:                       Standard.
Relending Terms:             From GOP to Provinces:  Same terms as IDA credit.
Project Description:         The proposed project seeks to increase agricultural
production by increasing the availability and
efficient utilization of irrigation water at the
farm level through improved water management
practices. The project would include: (i) major
renovations to about 2,000 watercourses and heavy
cleaning of and minor improvements to about 16,500
other watercourses; (ii) precision land leveling on
about 37,000 ac; (iii) demonstration plots; (iv)
training of On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) and
Extension Service personnel and Water Users Asso-
ciations (WUA) officials; and (v) supervision and
administration including technical assistance in
the form of local supervisory consultants and
expatriate experts.
The project could be adversely affected by insuffi-
cient and/or untimely availability of funds at the
provincial level to carry out the project according
to the proposed implementation schedule, inadequate
extension services, and inability of Water Users
Associations to adequately operate and maintain
the watercourse improvements. The proposed project
incorporates a number of measures to minimize these
risks based on the experience of a pilot project
financed by USAID.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                      Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ million-------
Civil Works (exclud-
ing farmers' donated
labor)                36.90       6.67        43.57
Equipment                0.51       1.53         2.04
Supervision &
Administration         6.57       1.23         7.80
Technical
Assistance             2.25       0.56         2.81
Training                 0.57       0.10         0.67
Base Cost             46.80      10.09        56.89
Physical
Contingencies          4.68       1.01         5.69
Price
Contingencies         14.44       2.06        16.50
Total Cash Cost       65.92      13.16        79.08
Farmers' Donated
Labor                 32.50       -           32.50
Total Project Cost    98.42        13.16       111.58
Financing Plan:                                       Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ million--------
IDA                     30.8       10.2          41.0
GOP and Governments
of Provinces           8.5         -            8.5
IFAD (to be arranged)  9.0          3.0          12.0
Farmers' Cash
Contribution          17.6         -           17.6
Farmers' Donated
Labor                 32.5         -           32.5
Estimated Disbursements:                               FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
----------US$ million--------
Annual                   7        12.5   16.0       5.5
Cumulative               7        19.5   35.5    41.0
Rate of Return:              Exceeds 50%.
Appraisal Report:            No. 3372, dated May 12, 1981.
Maps:                         IBRD 15555R-15556R-15557-15558.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR AN ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed cre-
dit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 33.4 million (US$41 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an On-Farm Water Management
Project.
2.        The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is
expected to participate in the financing of the project with a loan of US$12
million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
3.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 3328-PAK, dated April 10, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 20, 1981.
4.        The past four years have witnessed a significant economic recovery
in Pakistan. GDP growth during FY78, FY79 and FY80 averaged over 6% p.a.
This growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial
production well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging 3%
p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by
11% in FY78, 20% in FY79, and 22% during FY80. Value added in agriculture
rose by 6% in FY80 following increases of 4.2% in FY79 and 2.5% in FY78, and
in industry by 8.1% in FY80 following 9.2% growth in FY78 and 4.2% in FY79.
This performance contrasts markedly with the economic stagnation of the early
and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only 3-4% and goods production
1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible.
5.        The prospects for continuing economic improvements during the cur-
rent year--FY81--appear to be promising. Overall GDP is expected to grow by
about 5%, with continued increases in agricultural and industrial production
and in exports. Following a number of other favorable developments, includ-
ing the conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF, a
short-term debt rescheduling arrangement with bilateral creditors of the
Pakistan Consortium and improved external aid inflows, both the budget and the
balance of payments are under reasonable control and the short-term economic
outlook has considerably improved.
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report No. P-3041-PAK (Agricultural Research Project)
dated April 22, 1981.



-2-
6.        The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, rising rural
incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East. Various policy changes
introduced by the Government have also contributed significantly to the recovery.
7.        In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices; and
efforts have been made to improve the fertilizer distribution system by
expanding the marketing network and by ensuring adequate supplies and timely
delivery of fertilizer imports. Steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer
subsidy (which has been creating budgetary problems) and by separating it from
the development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in
crop support and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
8.        In addition, the Government has begun to address the deep-seated
problems affecting productivity at the farm level. A start has been made in
improving extension services through the adoption of the so-called training
and visit system. Preliminary reforms have been initiated to the agricultural
research system in line with the findings of a USAID/World Bank study. The
Government has also formulated and begun to implement a new agricultural
policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated agricul-
ture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water delivery
system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better scheduling of
water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the private sector,
for example, through the promotion of private tubewell development in sweet
groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides, seeds, agricultural credit
and farm power--have also been strengthened. These initiatives are still at
an early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the
farm level is yet to take place.
9.        Major changes have been made during the past four years in Govern-
ment policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early and
mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the private
sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead industrial
investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricultural pro-
cessing and some industrial units have been denationalized; constitutional
safeguards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise and import
duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions, and direct
cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and exports.
These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports which will
improve the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has
been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in private sector
confidence and to a sharp increase in proposals for relatively smaller-scale
private investment projects. There is also evidence of increased interest by
investors in larger projects, especially in the cement, chemicals and ferti-
lizer subsectors.



10.       At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been completed
of the management and organization of the public sector, and the performance
of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommendations of these
studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been abolished, the num-
ber of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and boards of directors
have been established which have helped to increase autonomy at the enterprise
level. Some public sector units which have little prospect of improved
financial performance have been closed down. These measures, together with
additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled technical personnel through
salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer subsector, have helped to
increase production and capacity utilization substantially in the public
sector. In addition to the denationalizations mentioned earlier, further
public disinvestment is being considered on a case-by-case basis.
11.       The higher level of economic activity during the past four years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes
and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. Nevertheless,
the budget remained under strain as expenditures rose as rapidly as revenues.
The Government's policies of encouraging production and exports through
subsidized inputs and export rebates, and the political and social constraints
to making substantial price adjustments on a number of items of mass consump-
tion, inflated subsidies. Rising debt service, following the expiration at
the end of FY78 of the four-year debt relief arrangement with member countries
of the Pakistan Consortium, and increased defense spending contributed to the
growth in non-development expenditures. In addition, commitments under the
ongoing public investment program and higher subsidies for agriculture led to
further increases in development spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the
increased revenues, the overall budget deficit remained around 8% of GNP and
the bank-financed deficit around 3-4% of GNP.
12.       The budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80.  Govern-
ment revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79, rose by a
further 25% in FY80 as a result of the continued growth of the economy, tax
and tariff increases announced in the FY80 budget, and intensified efforts to
improve tax collections. Although political developments outside Pakistan's
borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on
total spending; the growth of public expenditures was limited to 12%. Both
development and administrative expenditures were cut back, while subsidies
other than those on farm inputs were held to the previous year's level in
nominal terms. These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and
some improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. The overall
budget deficit declined from 8.4% of GNP in FY79 to 5.9% in FY80; and domestic
bank borrowing from 4.1% of GNP to 2.5%. This improvement is likely to be
maintained during FY81. The overall budget deficit is expected to be around
4.2% of GNP in FY81 and the Bank-financed budget deficit around 1.2%, both
well below the ratios attained in FY80.



- 4 -
13.       Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$1.7 billion in FY80, have also greatly assisted in the
external position. These increases have, however, been offset by a rapid
increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer, edible oil and
capital goods. The current account deficit was US$1,150 million or 4% of
GNP in FY80, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in
current prices. The financing of these deficits had presented considerable
difficulties to the Government during the past few years, since program-type
assistance from OPEC countries (which was substantial in the mid-1970s) as
well as net aid flows from Consortium sources declined through FY79. However,
a strong upsurge of remittances during FY80, a marginal increase in net
long-term capital inflows and substantial extraordinary receipts from OPEC
countries (including a US$200 million loan from Saudi Arabia for the Zakat
(Islamic welfare) Fund and US$220 million in deposits with the State Bank of
Pakistan) eased the external financing problem in the second half of FY80
and helped to build up foreign exchange reserves to about US$750 million at
the end of FY80, the equivalent of six weeks' imports.
14.       The slight improvement in the balance of payments situation during
FY80 has been followed by a number of favorable developments which have
substantially altered the balance of payments outlook for FY81. These have
included the conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF
in November 1980; a positive response from aid donors to the country's improved
economic performance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows; an
agreement with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling
of debt service payments on official concessional debt falling due over an
18-month period beginning mid-January 1981; continued good performance of
major crops and exports; and a further surge in remittances, which are expected
to exceed US$2 billion this fiscal year. While the current account deficit is
expected to widen sharply to about US$1.6 billion as a result of the recent
liberalization of the import regime, the additional support available from the
IMF and other sources is expected to limit the financing gap to about US$189
million, a level which could be financed from reserves.
15.       The recent favorable developments represent modest, though welcome,
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently
improved economic performance over the present decade and bring about a modest
improvement in the living standards of its population. These issues include
the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the struc-
ture and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to improve per-
formance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind continued
rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service expenditures;
and the problems of resource mobilization.
16.       Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent



- 5 -
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue to
limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied by
the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output growth
has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available inputs,
especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still exists
for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears essential to
give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which
would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The importance of
increasing farm productivity is now more widely recognized in the Government
and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless,
support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and
other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified,
while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary
adjustments in output and consumer prices.
17.       Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production, though recently better, remain well below those attained in the
1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts for nearly 40%
of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of ineffi-
ciency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets,
while manufacturing growth has been generally affected by the inadequate
performance of public sector enterprises. Although there have been some
recent improvements in the output and profitability of public enterprises,
these improvements need to be carried further through appropriate reforms to
remove distortions in pricing, improve performance criteria and incentives to
managers and to further rationalize the sector.  To assist and further encour-
age the recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased momentum
in the industrial sector will require, among other things, an adequate supply
of local and foreign financing, both for investments and current inputs, and
the more rapid provision of necessary utilities and other infrastructure
requirements. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Govern-
ment's incentive system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a
comparative advantage; more analysis is needed to determine levels of effective
protection for formulating an appropriate industrial development strategy for
the 1980s. The recovery in industry also needs to be reinforced by improve-
ments in labor-management relations and by further measures to rehabilitate
the textile industry and generally to increase exports.
18.       The Government's effort to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector has
been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign private
companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological and other
reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the development of
existing fields has been slow; and the benefits of Pakistan's considerable
potential in the oil and gas sector are yet to be realized. A number of
issues relating to such matters as energy planning, pricing and organization
will need to be addressed in order to realize this potential.



- 6 -
19.       While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also neceasary to contain the rapid growth in popula-
tion, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously handicapped the
country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning programs have
so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic
environment of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid
population growth places severe burdens on Government resources simply to
maintain education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates can
be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain comparatively low and
undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban health facilities.
High priority needs to be given not only to increased allocations for family
planning and social service expenditure but also to its redirection to serve
the wider interests of the population and the economy. While the substantial
migration from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years has to some
extent relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population growth, this
clearly cannot be relied upon to provide an answer to the situation in the
long run. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this problem;
a new population program has been adopted and is in the initial stages of
implementation.
20.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments,
a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the
economy, particularly in public savings. Although national savings at around
12% of GNP are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s,
there has been little further improvement over the past few years. The con-
tinuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending,
improve the performance of the public sector and encourage private investment
will help to reduce present imbalances between investment and savings flows.
At the same time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining
private consumption through appropriate price adjustments and selective duty
increases on non-essential imports. While the Government has made several
price increases in the recent past, further adjustments will directly reduce
the budgetary burden of subsidies. Continued restraints on development
spending and measures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax
administration and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes,
domestic water rates and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
21.       Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses, pota-
toes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring countries.
In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's exports of
manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as well as of a
wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industries sector. Increased
domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels and fertilizer
would help to moderate import growth considerably.



- 7 -
22.       External public debt outstanding at the end of FY80, excluding the
undisbursed pipeline, amounted to about US$8.7 billion, of which US$5 billion
was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to
OPEC, US$1.5 billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. Following the termination of the multi-year
debt relief agreement in FY78, debt service including short-term interest
payments rose sharply to about US$500 million in FY79 and US$600 million in
FY80. Debt service payments in FY81 and FY82 are presently projected at about
US$700 million and US$740 million, respectively, after taking into account the
effects of the recent short-term debt rescheduling agreement with bilateral
members of the Pakistan Consortium. As a proportion of exports, non-factor
service receipts and workers' remittances, debt service was about 13% in FY80.
Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY80 was about 13% of its
external public indebtedness. The share of the Bank Group in debt service
is now about 9%.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
23.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Through FY80, 38% of total Bank/IDA commitments
to Pakistan were for public utility services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for
industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for education.
Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for rail-
ways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications and
water supply.
24.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to support
the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are responsible for,
the principal public services supporting economic growth; and thirdly, to meet
basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
25.       In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of essen-
tial inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and water-
logging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, livestock
development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending is to
assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of available land
and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding investments, as
recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was Executing
Agency.



- 8 -
26.       In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven loans/credits amounting to US$270 million
for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). Direct
lending for industry has been limited to three large fertilizer plants. Proj-
ects are envisaged for further increasing domestic fertilizer capacity, as well
as for small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in 13 Pakistan enter-
prises for a total of US$70.2 million, of which US$60.7 million was by way of
loans and US$9.5 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex
II). About US$35.9 million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted
by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles
and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers, food processing, plastics, wood
processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
27.       The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the insti-
tutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal and Provin-
cial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has assisted the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respectively; the sector has
also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development
Program of Mangla and Tarbela dams.
28.       In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a pet-
roleum development project and begun to play an important role in strengthen-
ing the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in
the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources. In the field of urban development, Bank Group missions have worked
with the municipal planning authorities of Karachi and Lahore, Pakistan's major
cities, and following UNDP and IDA-financed technical assistance efforts, a
project is now under preparation for Lahore. A second water supply project
in Lahore is currently under implementation. Five IDA credits for education,
totaling US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary
and higher technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of
primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
29.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of March 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Credit
and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects have
experienced initial delays due to government procedures for project approval,
which are now being strengthened, and to slowness in appointment of consul-
tants. The Government has recently increased the rates charged by some public
utilities to improve their financial position. Rapid turnover of managerial
and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East, and budge-
tary constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
30.       A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
oil and gas development, irrigation and flood rehabilitation, valley develop-
ment in Baluchistan and telecommunications. Pakistan continues to have



- 9 -
domestic resource constraints for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist
the Government to finance agricultural and other high-priority projects which
have a low foreign exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in
specific cases, as in the one now proposed, is justified.
31.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan
on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
32.       The total area of Pakistan is 197 million ac, of which about 50 mil-
lion ac are cultivable. Of the cropped area, about 15 million ac are farmed
under rainfed conditions ("barani" areas) and 35 million ac are irrigated.
There are only 7 million ac of exploitable forest. About 70% of farmers
cultivate holdings of less than 12.5 ac and 40% of holdings are less than 7.5
ac; these small farms occupy 12% of available cropping area. Sixty percent
of farmers rent all or part of their land, mostly on a share cropping basis.
33.       Agriculture is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy.  It accounts
for about 30% of Pakistan's GDP, employs about 55% of the total labor force
of 23.0 million, and directly or indirectly provides 70% of the country's
exports, principally rice and cotton. Arable crops provide 69%, livestock
28% and fishing and forestry 3% of agricultural GDP. Irrigated areas are the
origin of 90% of farm output. In FY1980, agricultural exports exceeded by over
US$550 million the value of agriculture-related imports for fertilizer, pesti-
cides, machinery, wheat, edible oil, etc.
34.       Agricultural production grew substantially in the 1960s, averaging
about 6% per year. Growth slowed to little over 2% annually in the early to
mid-1970s. A series of adverse developments contributed to this disappointing
performance, including political turmoil in the early 1970s and a succession
of floods and droughts during the period 1973-76. Weaknesses in agricultural
support services and a worsening in the terms of trade for agricultural
products were contributing factors. Another major factor preventing higher
agricultural production has been the uncertainty of irrigation water supplies
coupled with inefficiencies in the irrigation system.
35.       During the last three decades, GOP's agricultural policies stressed
large water sector projects (Tarbela and Mangla Dams, link canals, and salinity
control and drainage projects) and food and input subsidies on wheat, edible
oil, tubewells, water, fertilizer and pesticides. Some essential requirements
for agricultural development such as field-oriented research, training and
extension programs, water management, and operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system were severely neglected. This unbalanced approach, even
though accompanied by substantial investments in new irrigation facilities,
was a major factor in retarding agricultural growth during the late 1960s and
through the mid-1970s.



- 10 -
36.       Over the past 18-24 months, GOP has been modifying its agricultural
policies, inter alia placing greater emphasis on water management. In mid-
1980 the Government generally adopted the major recommendations of a UNDP
study entitled "Revised Action Program (RAP) for Irrigated Agriculture" (see
also paragraph 8). RAP proposed a strategy to increase agricultural production
through projects and programs with high rates of return and quick-yielding
benefits. It emphasized rehabilitation of the irrigation system; improvement
in water management; the transfer of public tubewell operations to the private
sector where feasible; the promotion of private tubewell development in fresh
groundwater areas; the reduction and elimination of subsidies; and the strength-
ening of irrigation and agricultural agencies.
Irrigation and Water Management
37.       Because of low rainfall and high temperature and evaporation, irri-
gation is required for most agricultural production in Pakistan. About 75% of
the cropped area is irrigated and contributes about 90% of the nation's total
agricultural production. The Indus Irrigation System, which has a command
area of 34.5 million ac, is the largest contiguous irrigation system in the
world. The total length of canals is about 56,000 km, with watercourses, farm
channels and ditches amounting to another 1.6 million km in length. The
watercourse command area varies in size from 200 to 700 ac, each covering
about 20 to 50 farms. Flow in these watercourses is governed by an open outlet,
planned discharges from which vary from one to three cusecs to enable efficient
handling by individual farmers. The distribution of water within a watercourse
command is by a weekly time rotation system, with each farmer having a specific
time period in proportion to the size of his holdings. Flow is diverted to
various branches of the watercourse by constructing earth dams at junctions,
and to farm fields by cutting the banks of the watercourse. The boundaries of
the command area and alignment of the communal watercourse channel are estab-
lished by the Provincial Departments of Irrigation. These Departments also
establish the official water schedule. The construction, operation and main-
tenance of the communal watercourse channel and other irrigation channels in
the command area are the responsibility of the farmers. Because of poor farmer
cooperation and inadequate technical assistance, these watercourses have
deteriorated, resulting in excessive delivery losses.  Hence, farmers in the
mid and tail reaches generally receive considerably less water than their
planned share.
38.       In 1973, the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) under-
took a water management research project at the Mona Reclamation Experiment
Station (MRES); this project was funded by USAID with research staff provided
by Colorado State University. A field survey of 40 sample watercourses in
Punjab and Sind carried out by MRES in 1976 concluded that conveyance losses
in these watercourses ranged between 35-67%, with a weighted mean conveyance
loss of about 53%. The average irrigation efficiency was about 42%. The
Perspective Planning Division of WAPDA, as part of the UNDP Indus Basin Study
(paragraph 36), carried out spot measurements on 61 selected watercourses
during 1976/77. The results indicated that about 40% of the water entering
watercourses was lost before reaching the field; and that provincial water-
course irrigation efficiencies were 37% in Sind, 42% in Baluchistan, 46% in
NWFP and 51% in Punjab, with little variation between kharif and rabi seasons.



- 11 -
Based on 1973/74 irrigation deliveries, the studies found that, at the above
efficiencies, about 40 maf more water would be required for delivery at the
watercourse inlet to meet crop water requirements than if efficiencies were
increased to the level of 65% attainable through limited watercourse lining
and other improvements. These studies also indicated that, although water
deliveries exceeded crop requirements during some periods, deliveries fell
considerably short during periods of peak requirements.
39.        USAID Pilot Project.  Based upon the finding of MRES, and encouraged
by farmer response to watercourse improvement technologies developed at MRES,
GOP and USAID agreed to a five-year (1976-80) On-Farm Water Management (OFWM)
Pilot Project for which a USAID development loan of US$7.5 million was made
in 1976/77. The project was executed by the Ministry of Food and Agriculture
through a Federal Water Management Cell, with implementation by OFWM Direc-
torates within the Provincial Departments of Agriculture. An innovative and
successful aspect of the project was that farmers supplied all unskilled labor
for construction of civil works, while GOP supplied all materials, technical
assistance, and a 50% subsidy for precision land leveling. Field implementa-
tion was carried out by teams assigned to the Provincial OFWM Directorates;
to May 1980, a total of 55 field teams had been organized. Three training
institutes were established at Lahore, Hyderabad and Peshawar to give special-
ized training to OFWM personnel and officials of cooperating agencies. The
University of Agriculture at Faisalabad offered a special 4-1/2 month training
program for agricultural officers (AO) and for instructors at each provincial
training institute.
40.        The pilot project's five-year targets were the improvement of 1,300
watercourses with compacted earth banks, limited (10%) hard material lining
and concrete control structures; precision land leveling of 431,500 ac of
land; and the adoption by 40,000 farms of improved water management practices.
Although there were significant differences between the planned targets and
actual accomplishments, GOP officials have been well satisfied with the achieve-
ments of the project. Despite its pilot nature and numerous "start up" prob-
lems, the project gained the farmers' enthusiastic acceptance and increased
awareness in Pakistan of the need for water management. Moreover, during
FY80 as many watercourses were improved (273) and land leveled (20,000 ac)
as in the first three years of the project together.
41.        These broad accomplishments were confirmed by a USAID team which
evaluated the project in 1979. The evaluation team also identified a number
of major problems encountered by the project. These included the unavail-
ability of an adequate number of graduate-level personnel; inadequate training
facilities at the three training institutes (Punjab is just completing a new
facility at Lahore); deterioration of improved watercourses due to inadequate
maintenance by the farmers; shortage of skilled extension workers capable of
extending advisory service to farmers; inadequate funds for procurement of
required materials; and diversion of provincial budget allocations to other
projects because of general budgetary constraints.
42.        Punjab Accelerated Watercourse Cleaning Program.  Recognizing the
time involved in spreading benefits from the pilot project to all watercourses,
the Government of Punjab initiated a "crash program" in 1980 for rapid heavy



- 12 -
cleaning of watercourses. This program, under the direction of the Deputy
Commissioners, who are the chief government representatives at the District
level, used farmer donated labor, existing infrastructure and personnel from
the Departments of Agriculture, Irrigation, Integrated Rural Development Pro-
gram (IRDP), Cooperatives and Martial Law Administration. Forty concrete
control structures were to be installed in each cleaned watercourse; these
were supplied free by the Government but had to be installed at the farmers'
cost. About 9,800 watercourses were cleaned and about 7,500 cooperative
societies were organized on cleaned watercourses. The Cooperative Bank of
Punjab provided the societies with credit for installing the structures,
(about Rs 250 per structure). The Punjab Government, apart from supplying
the pre-cast structures (about Rs 60 each), paid the interest charges on the
loans. Because the technical responsibility for installing the permanent
control structures was not assigned and the lending workload for the Coopera-
tive Bank proved to be excessive, structures were installed in only 150 of
the cleaned watercourses. Adequate provision was also not made for main-
tenance. Thus, the major benefit from these works would probably be limited
to one or two years.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The USAID-financed OFWM pilot project is scheduled to be completed
on December 31, 1981; funds for civil works construction could be exhausted
well before this time. Because of the strong farmer support and benefits
from continuing the project, GOP requested assistance from IDA for an OFWM
Project, building upon the experience of the pilot project and Punjab's
"crash program." The project was appraised in November/December 1980. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington D.C. during April 28 to May 7, 1981. The
Pakistan Delegation was led by Mr. Saeed Ahmad Qureshi, Chairman of the Punjab
Planning Development Board. A report entitled "Pakistan - Staff Apraisal
Report - On-Farm Water Management Project (Report No. 3372-PAK, dated May 12,
1981) is being circulated to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data
sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Area
44.       The proposed OFWM Project would be implemented in all four provinces.
The watercourse renovation program (paragraph 47) would be implemented in ten
irrigated districts in Punjab (Sargodha, Vehari, Faisalabad, Bahawalnagar,
Multan, Kasur, Sahiwal, Jhang, Sheikhupura and Lahore), three in Sind
(Hyderabad, Nawabshah and Sanghar), and generally all of the irrigated areas
of Baluchistan and NWFP (Map Nos. IBRD 15555 to 15558). Project areas
are broadly the same as those now served by field teams associated with
the USAID pilot project. The accelerated watercourse improvement program
(paragraph 49) and precision land leveling program (paragraph 51) would be
implemented in selected portions of Pakistan's irrigated area (about 20% of
the total number of watercourses).



- 13 -
Objectives and Approach
45.       The proposed project would aim to increase agricultural production
in Pakistan through a program to augment the supply and efficient use of
irrigation water by better water management. It would be a continuation, with
improvements, of the USAID pilot project and the Accelerated Watercourse
Cleaning Program inaugurated in Punjab in 1980 (see paragraphs 39-42 above).
The project has the following objectives: (a) increasing agricultural produc-
tion by effective utilization of irrigation water saved through improved water
management practices at the watercourse command area level; (b) strengthening
the capability of the On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) Directorates in the
Provincial Departments of Agriculture and of the Federal Water Management Cell
in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives to plan and implement an
expanded OFWM program; (c) improving water management technologies and insti-
tutional arrangements including organization of formal Water Users Associa-
tions (WUA); (d) facilitating coordination and cooperation between the OFWM
Directorates and Extension Services in the Provincial Departments of Agricul-
ture; and (e) serving as a model for future OFWM projects that could be effec-
tively replicated on all 89,000 watercourses in Pakistan in 10 to 15 years.
Project Description
46.       The project would consist of:  (a) civil works required for major
renovation to about 2,000 watercourses and heavy cleaning and minor improve-
ments to about 16,500 other watercourses; precision land leveling (PLL) on
about 37,000 ac; and demonstration plots; (b) research on integrated water
management activities; (c) training of OFWM and Extension Service personnel
and WUA officials; and (d) supervision and administration including technical
assistance in the form of local supervisory consultants and expatriate experts.
Civil Works
47.       Watercourse Renovation Program.  The project would provide required
materials, pre-cast structures, additional personnel and equipment for con-
struction of required civil works. The watercourse renovation program would
cover about 2,000 watercourses and would generally follow the technology
applied in the pilot project; this would reduce water losses by about 50% in
each watercourse command area. The communal portion of the watercourse, which
has about 20% of the watercourse length but involves nearly 85% of the channel
usage, would be rebuilt with clean, compacted soil. Permanent control struc-
tures would be installed (about one for each 10 ac) at junctions and autho-
rized outlets to reduce channel deterioration and water losses and improve
water control. About four culverts and a limited number of buffalo baths
would be installed as required. An average of 15% of the communal portion of
the watercourse in fresh groundwater zones and up to 30% in saline groundwater
zones would be lined with brick masonry or concrete to reduce water losses
and/or deterioration of the channels.
48.       Preference for the selection of watercourses to be renovated would
be given to those with high potential for increasing production and to command
areas cultivated by lower income farmers. The following criteria would be
used as a guide by field teams in selecting watercourses to be renovated:



- 14 -
(a) a Water Users Association (WUA) had been formally organized and registered
on the watercourse (this would be required prior to installing permanent
structures); and (b) the water users were willing to improve their own water-
course branches and to maintain improvements, as evidenced by initiation of
such activity prior to any permanent control structure installations. To
increase the efficiency of the field teams and reduce transportation costs,
areas would be chosen where groups of 5 to 10 watercourses could be improved
at one time. Emphasis would also be given to saline groundwater areas. The
discharge of springs, karezes 1/ and tubewells in Baluchistan is often small
(0.25 cusec or less) which results in high conveyance losses when water is
applied directly to the fields. Water storage tanks have proved beneficial in
reducing these losses by substantially increasing the rates of flow. Hence,
the project provides for constructing 37 such tanks on renovated watercourses
in Baluchistan, each sufficient to store 8 to 12 hours of inflow.
49.       Accelerated Watercourse Improvement Program.  The project would
provide for heavy cleaning of about 16,500 watercourses and installing a
limited number of structures. The objective of this component would be to
spread the benefit of water management rapidly to a maximum number of farms.
Water losses would be reduced by 12-16% in each watercourse depending upon the
quality of cleaning, follow-up maintenance and the number of permanent control
structures installed. The improvement would include desilting the channels;
removing brush and vegetation from the banks; strengthening, straightening and
raising the banks where required; restoring a relatively uniform channel cross
section; and restoring deteriorated junction areas.
50.       To overcome the problems in installing permanent control structures
experienced in the Punjab "crash program" (paragraph 42), the Provincial
OFWM Directorates would be assigned this responsibility. Structures would
be installed after the Directorates have approved the quality of completed
earthwork and a WUA has been organized and registered. It is expected that
in each improved watercourse in Punjab, an average of 12 permanent structures
would be installed at major junctions and two culverts at major crossings.
An average of four permanent structures would be installed in each improved
watercourse in Baluchistan Province. No structures would be installed in NWFP
and Sind due to the physical layout of the watercourses in those provinces.
51.       Precision Land Leveling (PLL).  The technology to be used for PLL
would be the same as used in the pilot project. It would be limited to about
37,000 ac because of high per-acre costs and unavailability of open land on
small farms. The project would provide only technical assistance, except in
Baluchistan where a 50% cost-sharing subsidy for PLL (maximum Rs 650/ac and
limited to 5 ac per farm) would be provided by the Provincial Government
because of the poverty of the farmers. Land-leveling equipment, currently
owned and operated by the OFWM Directorates, would be made available on a
rental basis to farmers.
1/   Traditional irrigation system with tunnel-like delivery channel.



- 15 -
52.       Demonstration Plots.  The project would provide demonstration plots
on private farms served by renovated watercourses to show farmers the effec-
tive use of the increased water supply resulting from project improvements.
The plot would have good accessibility and be on a typical farm experiencing
average crop yields. Demonstration activities carried out on each plot by
the farmer with the technical assistance from the OFWM Directorates would
include PLL, proper field layout, land preparation and irrigation scheduling
to meet crop water requirements more effectively. In Baluchistan, the project
would provide about 17 ac of trickle irrigation in demonstration plots, which
would be located on existing irrigated orchards.
Training
53.       The project would provide training for:  (a) the additional Water
Management Officers (WMO) and Sub-Engineers needed for project implementation;
(b) 40 Water Management Supervisors (WMS), and 100 additional Water Management
Assistants (WMA) needed by the Punjab O&M Section (see paragraph 62 below);
(c) any new recruits who would be required due to attrition; (d) agricultural
officers and field assistants of the Extension Service; and (e) the chairman
or designated member from each participating WUA. Refresher courses would be
held as required.
54.       Currently, the OFWM Directorates in Punjab, Sind and NWFP operate
training institutes. Each of the institutes would offer courses in: Preci-
sion Land Leveling (6 weeks), Watercourse Design and Improvement (6 weeks),
and Water Management Extension (3 weeks). In addition, a curriculum would
be developed for training Water Management Supervisors and Water Management
Assistants on organizing and assisting WUAs, and WUA officers. Since
Baluchistan does not have an OFWM training institute, it would send its
trainees to Punjab OFWM Training Institute. These institutes would be res-
ponsible for preparing OFWM educational and informational materials required
for the project.
55.       The OFWM training program at the University of Agriculture at
Faisalabad is well organized and would continue to offer a 4-1/2 month course
for WMSs and Instructors of Agricultural Training Institutes, and a six-week
course for agricultural officers of the Agricultural Extension Service.
The Provincial OFWM Directorate would pay tuition (about Rs 4,500) for WMSs
attending these courses.
Supervision and Administration
56.       The project would finance:  all ongoing administration and coor-
dination staff associated with the phased-out pilot project plus additional
staff in the Federal Water Management Cell and Punjab OFWM Directorate to
accommodate the increased workload associated with the project; existing
field teams (55) plus 10 additional teams; technical assistance (see paragraph
57 below) to assist the Federal Water Management Cell and Provincial OFWM
Directorates in supervising and implementing the project; additional transport,
office and survey equipment, supplies and materials; and a local qualified
research institution to evaluate the project (see paragraph 80 below).



- 16 -
Technical Assistance
57.       To strengthen implementation capacity and improve supervision, the
project would provide about 510 man-months of consultancy services including
432 man-months of local engineers and specialists (supervisory consultants)
at about $400 per m/m.  These consultants would report to the Director General
of the Federal Water Management Cell and would assist the Cell and Provincial
OFWM Directorates in supervising and monitoring progress and quality of work,
preparing reports and general budget and fiscal control, including a semi-
annual review of Civil Works Imprest sub-accounts (see paragraph 72 below).
The project would also provide, at about $5,000 per m/m, 33 man-months of a
water management specialist; nine man-months of an irrigation agronomist; 18
man-months of a training specialist; 4 man-months of a trickle irrigation
engineer; and 12 man-months of consultancy services to assist the Cell, OFWM
Directorates and WAPDA's Survey and Research Organization in designing and
carrying out the monitoring and evaluation system. GOP would employ consul-
tants for the above assignments whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.02(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Appointment of the supervisory consul-
tants would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Organization and Implementation
58.       The proposed project would build upon existing institutional arrange-
ments in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives and Provincial
Departments of Agriculture which were established to implement the pilot
project. These arrangements include: (a) a Federal Water Management Cell
in the Ministry to coordinate the project and assure consistency with agreed
criteria, specifications and standards; and (b) an OFWM Directorate in each of
the Provincial Departments of Agriculture to implement the project and super-
vise the operation and maintenance of improved facilities. Implementation of
the accelerated watercourse improvement program would follow the institutional
model developed for the Punjab "crash program." Under this arrangement, the
Deputy Commissioner would direct and coordinate the various provincial agencies
involved in watercourse cleaning.
59.       The Federal Water Management Cell would be headed by a Director
General reporting to the Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Food, Agri-
culture and Cooperatives. This Cell would be the lead agency for the project
and would be responsible for coordinating project activities and programs to
be implemented in the provinces; developing a consolidated annual work plan
based upon input from each Provincial OFWM Directorate; preparing consolidated
quarterly and annual project progress reports, as well as a project completion
report; maintaining consolidated project accounts and monitoring the Civil
Works Imprest Account and Sub-accounts; submitting reimbursement applications
to IDA; promulgating appropriate technical standards; assuring that completed
civil works meet agreed criteria and specifications; arranging for project
related research; and providing for project monitoring and evaluation. To
assist the Cell, the project would provide technical assistance in the form
of supervisory consultants and technical experts (paragraph 57).



- 17 -
60.       The OFWM Directorates would differ slightly to suit the circumstances
in each province. The Directorates would be headed by a Director, except in
Punjab where the workload justifies the position of Director General. In
Baluchistan, the Director would report to the Director of Extension Service,
while elsewhere they would report directly to the Secretary of Agriculture.
The OFWM Directorate would be responsible for implementing the project;
supervising operation and maintenance of improved watercourses; organizing,
registering, assisting and maintaining liaison with the Water Users Associa-
tions; preparing an annual provincial project work plan by March 1 of each
year to be included in the Provincial Annual Development Program (ADP) and
in the Cell's consolidated annual work plan; submitting quarterly and annual
progress reports to the Cell within 30 days of the end of the reporting
period; maintaining separate project accounts; initial preparation of IDA
reimbursement application and submittal to the Cell; verifying to the Cell
the quantity and quality of work completed; and procurement of equipment and
materials.
61.       Field teams, responsible for carrying out engineering works, would
report to the Deputy Director (Field) except in Punjab where they would report
to the Deputy Director (area coordinator) through an Assistant Director. Team
composition would generally consist of eight members; one Team Leader, three
WMOs, one Water Management Supervisor (WMS), and three Sub-engineers. The
team leader would be an experienced WMO who would be either an agricultural
engineering or agronomy graduate trained at the Provincial OFWM Training
Institute. WMSs would be agronomy graduates (BS or MS) trained in organiza-
tional, extension and water management techniques in the University at
Faisalabad. Sub-engineers would be diploma holders from engineering
institutes as well as Provincial OFWM Institutes.
62.       Punjab Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Section.  The project would
establish an O&M Section in the offices of the six area Deputy Directors within
the Punjab OFWM Directorate. This section would consist of six Assistant
Directors (Agriculture), forty WMSs and 100 Water Management Assistants. The
main responsibilities of the WMSs and WMAs would be to organize formal WUAs;
serve as liaison between the OFWM Directorate and WUAs to encourage their
effective and continued operation; monitor watercourse maintenance and take
appropriate action; assist farmers and WUAs in planning, installing and
operating simple irrigation practices; schedule return of OFWM field teams to
renovated watercourses to do follow-up work on further improvement (lining,
structure installation, PLL, etc.); and install physical water management
practices on the demonstration plot under the project. The Area Deputy
Directors would organize regular visits for the WMSs and WMAs to farmers.
The WMA would visit two watercourses daily, making the rounds in two weeks,
leaving two days for specialized training, report writing and leave.
63.       Since Sind, NWFP, and Baluchistan have fewer watercourses to be
renovated, establishment of a separate O&M section would not be justified at
this time. However, the Governments of these provinces have indicated general
support for such an approach when the magnitude of their OFWM activities would
so justify. In the meantime, the WMS attached to the field teams in these
three provinces would be responsible for coordinating and implementing the
O&M activities and would be given appropriate training in these matters.



- 18 -
64.       Coordination with Extension Service.  Under the project, technical
services to farmers would be provided through two programs. The OFWM Direc-
torate would undertake all engineering and physical tasks within a watercourse
command area associated with water, whereas the Agricultural Extension Service
would be responsible for combining into the extension package all the non-
structural water inputs together with non-water inputs. This approach would
assure continued and improved operation of irrigation facilities within a water-
course area under the supervision of the OFWM Directorate. At the same time,
farmers would benefit from the program of an integrated Extension Service
employing the T&V system. The OFWM Directorate would be responsible for select-
ing the demonstration plot area and installing all structural water management
practices; the Directorate would then turn supervision of the plot over to the
Extension Service. The project would strengthen the Extension Service by pro-
viding training for its personnel in the Provincial OFWM institutes; plots on
renovated watercourses for demonstrating techniques to farmers for increasing
agricultural production; and incremental agricultural supplies required for
such demonstrations. The Area Deputy Directors OFWM would arrange for monthly
meetings at all administrative levels with extension service officials to
encourage coordination and improve input services to the farmers and WUAs.
The proposed project would complement the improvements to extension services
being implemented under ongoing IDA-financed projects in Punjab and Sind.
65.       Water Users Associations.  The organization of formal Water Users
Associations (WUA) would be required on all watercourses prior to the installa-
tion of permanent control structures and lining. This requirement would be
essential to overcome the problem of poor maintenance of watercourse improve-
ments.  In addition, encouragement would be given to the organization of for-
mal WUAs on watercourses already renovated under the USAID pilot project.
Punjab and NWFP have recently promulgated WUA Ordinances and it is expected
that Sind and Baluchistan will promulgate theirs within a short time. Each
WUA would be registered in the Office of the Director of the Provincial OFWM
Directorate.
66.       The WUA Ordinances would enable the establishment of each associa-
tion as a corporate body in the province of origin. Provision would be made
for the WUAs to organize into a Federation of Associations along a distribu-
tary or canal. In addition, the Ordinance would provide sanctions if an
individual member or Association fails to adequately maintain communal water-
course improvements. The OFWM Directorates would have the authority to
undertake such maintenance and assess and charge the member or Association
for the costs incurred. In addition, the OFWM Directorate may request the
Provincial Department of Irrigation to stop delivery of irrigation water to
WUAs and individual members in payment default to the Directorate.
67.       Farmers within a WUA would be able to obtain loans from the provin-
cial Cooperative Banks for individual improvements such as PLL, structures,
additional lining and production credit. The WUA may seek communal loans from
the Cooperative Bank for tubewells, fertilizer, watercourse improvements, etc.
The WUAs and individual members would also be eligible to receive loans from
the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan and Commercial Banks.



- 19 -
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
68.       The WUAs would be responsible for the O&M of the renovated water-
courses. Sanctions would be provided in the WUA legislation to assure such
maintenance (paragraph 66). Provincial OFWM Directorates would supply
technical services to support the WUAs and farmers in fulfilling their O&M
responsibilities, which would be carried out by their own or hired labor.
Farmers would also be responsible for maintenance of their own field channels
and other field improvements such as PLL.
69.        In addition to their responsibilities for maintenance at the water-
course level, project beneficiaries would also contribute to the O&M of the
main irrigation system by higher payments of water charges resulting from
increases in cropping intensities. Current water charges represent a small
portion (about 6%) of the net per acre income of crops. However, the Govern-
ment has raised water charges by about 25% in each of the past two years and
intends to make further increases on a phased basis within the next few years
to cover the cost of operation and improved maintenance of the system. These
increases are in line with the recommendations of the study on Agricultural
Pricing and Water Charges carried out by GOP under the ongoing IDA-financed
SCARP VI Project (Credit 754-PAK).
Project Cost
70.       Total project cost is estimated at US$111.6 million with a foreign
exchange component of about US$13.2 million, or 12% of total costs. This
estimate includes about US$0.4 million in import taxes and duties. Farmers'
donated labor for civil works is estimated at US$32.5 million. Project cash
costs for the three-year implementation period (July 1981 to June 1984) are
estimated at about US$79.1 million equivalent.
Financing
71.       The proposed IDA Credit of SDRs 33.4 million (US$41 million) would
be extended to GOP on standard terms and conditions and would finance about
78% of the foreign exchange cost and about 47% of the local cash cost, or
about 52% of the total cash cost net of taxes and duties. The proceeds of the
credit would be on-lent to the provincial governments on the same terms as the
IDA credit. IFAD is expected to extend a loan of US$12 million which would
finance 22% of the foreign exchange cost and 14% of local cash costs or 15% of
total cash cost. In the event that the IFAD loan should not materialize, GOP
would arrange other financing, either from its own resources or from additional
foreign borrowing, in order to carry out the project. The farmers would con-
tribute US$17.6 million or 23% of the estimated total cash cost. GOP and the
Provincial Governments would finance the remaining US$8.5 million amounting to
10% of the estimated total cash cost. Finally, farmers' donated labor would
amount to US$32.5 million, or 29% of total project costs. Approval by the
Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) of the PC-1



- 20 -
document for the project is a condition of credit effectiveness 1/ (Section
6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
72.       In order to address the main financial problems encountered by the
USAID pilot project (see paragraph 41 above), the project would provide for
the establishment of a Civil Works Imprest Account to finance all civil works
to be undertaken under the project. IDA would make an initial advance to this
account equivalent to Rs 23.2 million, which would cover the financing of 80%
of the estimated cost of civil works required for the first four months of the
project.  GOP would cause the Provincial Governments to advance Rs 5.9 million
to the Account to cover the balance of 20% of the cost of civil works expendi-
tures. This Imprest Account would be periodically replenished by IDA and GOP,
maintaining the corresponding percentages of their contributions. The level
of the Imprest Account would be adjusted every year based on estimated expendi-
tures for the following year. Advances from the IDA Credit and GOP would be
deposited in the Imprest Account within the State Bank of Pakistan. The
provinces would open sub-accounts in their respective provincial Treasury.
Disbursements from the sub-accounts would follow existing provincial procedures
and would be under the control of the Directors (or Director General in
Punjab) of the respective Provincial OFWM Directorates. GOP would ensure
that all IDA advances and reimbursements for civil works would be made to the
appropriate sub-account. Should disbursements be made for expenditures not
allowable under the IDA Credit, or for watercourse renovation and accelerated
improvements not meeting agreed selection criteria and/or standards, GOP
through the respective Provincial Government would cause redeposit of the
corresponding amount. The opening and operation of the Imprest Account and
sub-accounts would be made in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association (Section 2.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The establishment of the Account with a sub-account for each of the four
provinces and the deposit by GOP of the initial advance would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). All advances for the project would be directly applied to the
appropriate provincial sub-accounts of the Civil Works Imprest Account (Section
2.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Recovery of Costs
73.       A large proportion of the cost of improvements to the project's
watercourses would be financed by the benefiting farmers. Farmers would be
required to pay a minimum of 20% of the cost of construction materials in
Punjab and a minimum of 25% in Sind; repayments would be on the basis of ten
bi-annual installments following a two-year grace period for renovated water-
courses and in three annual installments following a one-year grace period in
the case of accelerated improvements. In order to provide extra incentives
for them to participate in the project, farmers in Baluchistan and NWFP would
be exempt from repayment. There would also be indirect cost recovery through
marketing fees and taxation of the project's incremental production. Including
such indirect recovery, the total level of cost recovery is estimated at 97%
1/   A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma N.1) is an outline of the project
and project cost necessary for GOP approval procedures.



- 21 -
of project cost, which is much higher than for the average irrigation project
because of the substantial contribution of labor by farmers (see paragraph 70
above).
Procurement
74.       Items to be financed under the proposed project would include civil
works (mostly earthmoving, cement, brick and sand), and equipment (primarily
jeeps, pick-ups, motorcycles, bicycles, furniture, office equipment and sur-
veying equipment). Procurement would be carried out by the Provincial OFWM
Directorates and by the Federal Water Management Cell. Because civil works
construction would be in small parcels, seasonal, scattered over a wide area
and involve farmer donated labor, it would not be practical to group them into
contracts suitable for ICB. Therefore, the civil works would be carried out
in the following manner: (a) watercourse improvements would be constructed
by force account and by farmer donated labor; and (b) precision land leveling
would be done by the farmers with rented equipment from the Directorates
and/or private contractors. All civil works materials are available in
Pakistan. Bricks and cement would be procured by the OFWM Directorates
following provincial procedures satisfactory to IDA.
75.       Vehicles would be procured following ICB in accordance with IDA
guidelines. The Federal Cell would coordinate the procurement of vehicles so
that all vehicles would be called for under one tender document. Vehicles'
base cost would be about US$1.2 million. Motorcycles and bicycles would be
purchased directly by OFWM Directorate staff who would be provided with
medium-term loans by the Provincial Governments for this purpose. Because of
the relatively small amount of office and survey equipment required for each
province, these items would be procured following provincial procedures
acceptable to IDA involving prudent shopping, whereby the concerned agency
would compare the prices from at least three independent suppliers. The unit
costs of the items to be procured through prudent shopping would be less than
$5,000; the aggregate amount of non-ICB procurement of equipment would not
exceed the equivalent of US$1.2 million (inclusive of contingencies). Consul-
tant services financed under the project would be obtained in accordance with
normal IDA procedures.
Disbursements
76.       Disbursements of the IDA Credit would be made for:  (a) 80% of the
cost of civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported
equipment and vehicles; 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) on locally
manufactured equipment and vehicles; or 75% of expenditures for imported
equipment and vehicles procured locally; (c) 100% of the cost of foreign
technical assistance and 65% of the cost of local consultants; and (d) 25% of
the salaries and allowances of all professional OFWM field staff and Punjab's
O&M section engaged in project operations.
77.       Disbursements under items (a) and (d) above would be made against
statements of expetditures; supporting documents would be retained by imple-
menting agencies and retained for review by IDA. Reimbursement applications
in the case of civil works would also be accompanied by a statement of



- 22 -
transactions on the Imprest Account since the previous application, with the
balance certified by the State Bank of Pakistan; a reconciliation showing that
the balance represents the amount deposited in the account at the beginning of
the project (or subsequent years) less payments awaiting IDA reimbursement;
and a statement indicating that GOP funds deposited in the account equal or
exceed the 20% matching contribution required for civil works for such IDA
reimbursement or advance. Disbursement under items (b) and (c) would be made
against full documentation. The Directors of the Provincial OFWM Directorates,
assisted by the supervisory consultants, would be responsible for the initial
preparation of IDA reimbursement applications. These would be submitted to
the Federal Water Management Cell which would maintain consolidated budget
control for the project and would forward applications to IDA for reimburse-
ment. It is anticipated that final disbursement for the project would be made
by December 31, 1984, about six months after the end of project implementation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
78.       The USAID pilot project has an ongoing monitoring and evaluation
program carried out by the Provincial OFWM Directorates and the Research and
Survey Organization of WAPDA's Perspective Planning Division. The project
would improve this monitoring and evaluation system in order to develop an
information system of greater utility to project management, planners and
donor agencies.
79.       Monitoring activities would be carried out by Provincial OFWM
Directorates. Each Directorate would have a Deputy Director, Monitoring and
Planning, who would be responsible for collecting, organizing, and analyzing
the data and preparing quarterly and annual reports. The Federal Water
Management Cell and OFWM Directorates would improve the proformas already
being used under the pilot project to monitor the project's physical and
financial progress. This would provide project management with an early
warning signal regarding current and/or potential implementation problems.
80.       The Federal Water Management Cell would contract with WAPDA for the
project's evaluation. The Evaluation Unit in WAPDA would prepare biannual
progress reports and a final Project Evaluation Report to be submitted to the
Cell and to IDA within two and six months, respectively, of the close of the
reporting period.
81.       The project's evaluation would concentrate on assessing the impact
of the major components, particularly regarding the benefits derived from
watercourse improvements, the source of these benefits, the role and effec-
tiveness of the WUA, and their contribution to the project's benefits. The
analysis of this data would provide guidance for improving the design of
OFWM investments, including the selection criteria, the redesign of techno-
logies, and organizational and cost recovery arrangements.
Benefits and Risks
82.       The project would raise agricultural production and farm incomes
by increasing irrigation water supply on selected watercourses. Incremental
production of the major crops is estimated at 27,000 mt of wheat, 32,400 mt



- 23 -
of rice, 16,300 mt of cotton and 34,000 mt of sugar. By permitting reduced
imports of wheat and increased exports of rice and cotton, the project would
improve GOP's balance of payments. The project would also significantly
increase employment opportunities for the rural population.
83.       Because of increases in cropping intensities, the project is expected
to result in additional direct annual farm employment of about 8 million man-
days in the areas covered by the renovated watercourses component and a sig-
nificant but non-quantified amount of additional farm employment in areas
covered by the improved watercourses component. In addition, civil works
under the project would require farmer labor contributions of about 15.6
million man-days during the three-year construction period. As the construc-
tion activities would be undertaken during slack labor periods, it is expected
that about 85% of this requirement would be supplied by family labor. Based
on representative farm models, the watercourse improvements would raise farm
incomes of approximately 800,000 beneficiary families by 6% to 40%; the
present per-capita incomes of these families range from about US$90 to US$325
per annum. Two thirds of intended beneficiaries would be small farmers
operating less than 12.5 ac and whose incomes are below Pakistan's average
per-capita income of US$270. Since all direct benefits of project works would
come from increased farm productivity, the distribution of benefits would
largely follow the existing pattern of land ownership.
84.       The weighted economic rate of return (ERR) for the renovated water-
courses component, which accounts for about 60% of total project costs, is
estimated to be about 45%. The improved watercourses component accounts for
approximately 35% of project costs and has an ERR greater than 50%. The
project's overall ERR exceeds 50%.
85.       The main risks faced by the project would be insufficient and/or
untimely availability of funds at the provincial level to carry out the
project according to the proposed implementation schedule; a weak response
by beneficiaries to the additional water supply; inadequate extension services;
and an inability of Water Users Associations to adequately operate and maintain
the watercourse improvements. Based on the experience of the pilot project,
the proposed project incorporates a number of measures described above to
minimize these risks such as the establishment of an Imprest Account for civil
works material costs; formalized Water Users Associations that would provide
for sanctions for enforcing maintenance activities, and strengthened support
services in farmer extension, water management, and watercourse operation and
maintenance.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the Project Agreements between the Association
and the Provinces of Baluchistan, NWFP, Punjab and Sind and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 24 -
87.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement) are the appointment of a local firm for
supplying the supervisory consultants (paragraph 57); approval of the PC-1 by
ECNEC (paragraph 71); and establishment of a Civil Works Imprest Account with
a sub-account for each of the four provinces and deposit by GOP of its initial
advance (paragraph 72).
88.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 18, 1981



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PARISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AyRACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1                   PAKISTAN                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            803.9                               MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     253.0              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0       130.0    270.0              212.4              1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     61.0_L      98.Oj   172.0              166.0               842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    45.9        60.4       77.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1        24.9     27.4               20.8                39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    139.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      332.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2150
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EM.                      57.0        75.0      96.0              193.2               376.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    201.0      249.0    305.0               409.6              2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.8        46.3      46.5               42.0                40.4
15-64 YES.                        51.8        50.5      50.6               55.0                56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.4         3.2       2.9                3.0                 3.4
POPULATION GREWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3         2.8      3.1                 2.2                2.4
URBAN                              5.0         4.0      4.4                 3.9                4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0        47.0      45.0               37.4                28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.0         18.0     15.0               14.6                 7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2          3.7      3.3                 2.6                1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..      1908.1   2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       6.0               15.6                39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.0       102.0      99.0              101.4               116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  83.0        97.0      99.0               92.4               108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          55.0       60.0      63.0               49.8                60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       22.0       20.0      20.0               12.,0               18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    27.0         21.0     17.0               17.9                 5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.0        49.0      52.0               50.8                63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         135.0/c        ..        ..                 ..                52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         21.0     29.0               30.2                42.4
URBAN                              ..          ..      60.0               66.0                62.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       17.0              20.0                29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0      6.0               17.7                52.8
URBAN                              *          12.0      21.0              71.3                71.1
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                 ..                42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         11000.0/d   4310.Oje  3780.Oje           6322.7              4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      8440. Oje 10040. 0/e         9459.0              2213.6
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2070.0      1870.0   2020.0              1758.4              819.4
URBAN                            370.0       500.0    570.0
RURAL                          22850.0    12390.0  12360.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAI RED          ..          ..        ..                 ..                28. 8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4        5.3
URBAN                             5.6         5.5
RURAL                             5.4         5.2
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
'OTAL                             3. 1        2.8 /f
LRBAN                              3.1        2.7        .
RURAL                             3. 1        2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         17.9/f
URBAN                              ''        54.4
RURAL                              ..         4.9        ..



- 26 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKIaSTAN                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WETGHTED AV 5AGES
PAKISTAN                    ~~~~~~~~~- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )1_
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJnSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0      51.0                 80.9                 98.6
MALE                  46.0         62.0       69.0                94.3                 99.2
FEMALE                13.0         24.0      32.0                 66.7                 97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0      17.0                 26.6                 55.5
MALE                  18.0         22.0       25.0                34.8                 60.7
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0        8.0                18.2                 49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5        1.5                 9.9                 13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         41.0      42.0                 41. 1                34.6
SECONDARY                           24.0         20.0       19.0                20.5                 28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15. Ofg      20.0       21.0                40.9                 85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          3.0       2.8                  1. 8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         18.0      16.0                 25.8                118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          1.6       4.8                  2.4                 39. A
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    7.0           ..       5. 0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3. L       *.h                 .                   4. 9
LADOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6        17364.1   21270.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8. 7         9.3       10.0                29.4                 36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               60.8         58.9       58.0                70.5                 51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.9         18.7      19.0                 11.6                 21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7       27.9                37.9                 39.1
MALE                                  55.2         50.4       48.6                51.3                 48. 5
7HMALE                                 5.7          5.5        5.7                23. 7                29. 6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1. 7       1.8                 1. 2                  1. 1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/i         17.8       17.3
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45. 3/i        41.8      41.5
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 4/i         8.0       8.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/i         20.2      20.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         68.0     176.0                107.8
RL'RAL                                ..         47.0     122.0                 86.5                192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         34. 0      88. 0
RURAL                                 ..         22.0       58.0                  ..                182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..         42.0       32.0                46.2                    .
RURAL                                 *          43.0       29.0                51.7                 33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962-65;  /d Includes Bangladesh;  /e Registered, not a1l practicing in the country;  /f 1973;
ag 1960-62; /h 1972; Ai 1963-64.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



I     Q                P,         g      -i          g
I'
I I             I S                       II.                                                                                                                                   g           RR   R
5'     g A                  g
H.'.
2
4 A                   I,R I. N                                 , . . , . .
i,I   R                                                   . - .    . . . .
W W,                        P   T                        I . R.. .
1                                 I    I . I
A .1 .   11
3   - - - S - -                                                                                                                                                                   . . . . . .
SI,4 I R                                                                                           El I   I
111211   I 51 11        I
Al
. . . . . . . . . . .
51                                                                                                                                                   21 I       11
112
91
51 .1 .1  11    I                                                                                IA  I
51                         51 1.    11 I   11
k P.
12I   1
IP
Al
P, A                                                           I.   S R                                         I.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979/80                                                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROW08 (Z. con-tant prices)
US$ billion        Z                                            1969/70-1974/75       1975/76-1979/80       1979/80
GN? at Market Plis                            25.05          100.0                                                3.5                   6.1               7.8
Gross Do.emstc Investeent                      4.16           16.6                                              -5.5                   4.8                2.2
Gross National Saving                          3.04           12.1                                               -2.1                  8.9                8.3
Current Account Balance                      -1.16            -4.6
Resource Gap                                 -2.77           -11.1                                                6.7                   3.5             -17.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/80/!
Value Added                 Labor Force               V.A. Per Worker
USS tdllion       Z           Million       Z           US$ million        Z
Agriculture                         6,694           31           12.8         54               523           58
Industry                            5.280           25            4.3         18            1.228           137
Services                            9,299           44            6.6         28             1.409          157
Total/Average                   !1.273           100           23.7        100               898          100
GOVERNI IT FLNANCE
General Government                                              Central Governfnt
(Rs billion)                Z of GDP                            (Rs billion)                 Z of GOP
1979/80         1979/80      1975/76-1979/80                    1979/80          1979/80      1975/76-1979/80
Current Receipcs                               39.4            17.0               15.9                         30.1             13.0               12.1
Current E.pend1tures                           39.5            17.0               16.7                         29.8             12.8               12.2
Current Surplus/Deficit                       -0.1              0.0               -0.8                          0.3              0.2              -0.1
Capital Expenditures                           24.8            10.7               10.4                         21.6              9.3                8.8
Eternal Assistance (net)                      12.6             5.4                5.2                         12.6              5.4                5.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80/-b
Money and Q.uasi Money                                     33.1         41.6         51.7         63.6         76.4          91.1
Sank Credit to Public Sector (net)                         17.7         22.9         29.5     .  34.4          43.2         48.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)                      19.7         23.1         30.1         35.7         42.7          50.6
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                          31.6         34.3         38.1         40.6         43.0          43.3
Wholesale Price Inde. (1969/70 - 100)                     211.3        229.4        255.3        271.4        289.7        316.7
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                                      23.6          8.6         11.3          6.3          6.7           9.3
Bank Credic to Public Sector (net)                         21.2         29.4         28.8         16.6         25.6         13.0
Sank Credit to Private Sector (gross)                      26.3         17.3         30.3         18.6         19.6          18.5
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the 4inistry of Finance and PlannIng.  Serious underesumerstion may e-Iist  especially of voren.
/b Provisional.
. ot applicable.
April 1981



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                (US$ million)                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77-1979/80)
1976/77     1977/78      1978/79       1979/80/a                                                  US$ million        2
Exports of Goods, NFS                                1,404        1,651        2,107        2,964                    Raw Cotton                           135.4          8.5
Imports of Goods. NFS                                2.877        3.297       4.485        5,727                    Cotton Yarn                          157.0           9.8
Resource Gap (daficit - -)                          -1.473       -1,646       -2,378       -2,763                    Cotton Cloth                         199.1         12.4
Rice                                 313.3         19.6
Interest Payments                                     -172         -183         -261         -285                    All Other Co  dities                 795.6         49.7
Workers' Remittances                                   578        1.166        1.395        1.743                      Tocal                            1,600.4        100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)                             15           62          134          154
Net Transfers                                           ..           ..           ..           ..
bSianc-  on Currest Account                         -1,052         -601       -1.110       -1,151                                 EXTERNAL DEBI, JUNI 30. i980
Direct Foreign Investment                               ..           ..           ..           ..                                                                 USS million
Net fLT Borroving
Disbursents                                          961          841          813        1,420                   Public Debt, Including Guaranteed               11,209.9
Amortization                                        -175         -122         -235         -310                   Non-guaranteed Private Debt If                   ._ .
Sob Total                                            786          719          578        1.110                      Total Outst-ndingand Disbursed               11,209.9
Transaccions with IMP/b                                 44           41          -14           78
other Items n.e.i./c                                    24          163          238          325                               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979180 S
-ncrease in Reserves (-)                               198         -322          308         -362
55$ million
Gross Reserves (year end)/d                            372          694          386          748
Net Reserves (year end)/e                             -146          150          -92          340                    Public Debt, Including Guaranteed                 12.7
Official Gold (year and; million)                      1.6          1.7          1.8          1.8                    Non-guaranteed Private Debt                       12.7
Total                                           12.7
Fuel and Related Materials
Petrolueu  Imports                                     413          497          611        1.237                        I1RD/IDA LENDING (JUNE 1979) (million USS)
Petroleum Exports                                       27           63           56          178
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHEANE                                                                                                     Outstanding and Disbursed                  330.9 778.7
Undisbursed                                 60.7        444.1
Through Kay 11. 1972       May 11, 1972 - February 15, 1973        Since February 15. 1973                           Outstanding, Including Undisbursed         391.6      1.232.8
USS - Rs 4.7619                     US$ - 11.00                     US$ - 9.90
Rs  - US50.2100                     Rs  - 0.0909                    Rs  - 0.1010
/a Government estimate.
/b Including Trust Fund.
Ic Including net short-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
id Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
Fe Excluding use of IMF credit.
If Private debt is negligible.
RSatio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and workers' remittances; not including short-term or L'F charges.
Not available.
April 1981



- 230 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellation)
Credit                                                                             Undis-
Number   Year  Borrower         Purpose                       Bank   TW    IDA  bursed
Seventy-eight loans and credits fully disbursed /a           611.2         581.3
422       1973  Pakistan  Karachi Port III                    --            18.0   0.1
492       1974  Pakistan  Karachi Port IV                     --            16.0   1.3
1107     1975  SNGPL       Gas Pipeline IV                    53.0           --    1.7
546      1975  Pakistan  Industrial Development (NDFC)   --                 30.0   1.4
1208T    1976  Pakistan  Power Transmission                   --   35.0      --    5.5
620       1976  Pakistan  Seed                                --            23.0   8.8
1326     1976  PICIC       Industrial Development             25.0           --    1.2
630      1976  Pakistan  Lahore Water II                      --            26.6   9.2
648      1976  Pakistan  Irrigation and Drainage              --            14.0   7.6
1366T    1977  Pakistan  Livestock                            --   10.0      --    9.8
1372/684 1977  Pakistan  Railways                             35.0          25.0  25.1
678      1977  Pakistan  Education                            --            15.0  10.5
751      1977  Pakistan  Hill Farming                         --             3.0   2.0
754      1978  Pakistan  SCARP-VI                             --            70.0  69.2
755      1978  Pakistan  Hazara Forestry                      --             1.7   1.5
771      1978  Pakistan  Tarbela II                           --            35.0   2.2
813      1978  Pakistan  Punjab Extension                     --            12.5  10.4
846      1978  Pakistan  Fauji Fertilizer                     --            55.0  17.0
867      1979  Pakistan  Toot Oil & Gas Development           --            30.0  16.6
877       1979  Pakistan  Salinity Control & Reclamation  --                60.0  59.2
892       1979  Pakistan  Primary Education                   --            10.0   9.1
922      1979  Pakistan  Sind Agricultural Extension /b  --                  (9.0) (9.0)
957       1979  Pakistan  Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank   --                30.0  27.3
968       1980  Pakistan  Third WAPDA Power                   --            45.0  42.0
974      1980  Pakistan  Third Highway                                      50.0  46.8
1019     1980  Pakistan  PICIC Industrial Development    --                 40.0  40.0
1066     1981  Pakistan  Fertilizer Imports /d                --           (50.0)(49.9)
Total                                                        724.2 45.0 1,191.1
of which has been repaid                                   403.5  --      --
Total now outstanding                                        320.7 45.0 1,191.1
Amount sold                                         23.9
of which has been repaid                          22.3       1.6  --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                            319.1 45.0 1,191.1
Total undisbursed                                             26.4 15.3   383.8 425.5
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for proj-
ects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b   Not included in totals:  Credit number 922-PAK is not yet effective.
Ts   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/d   This Credit and Credits 1109-PAK (Fifth Education-Vocational Training)
-    for $25 million and 1113-PAK (Small Industries) for $30 million, which
were signed April 24, 1981, are not included in above totals.



- 31 -                     ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (March 31, 1981) 1/
Fiscal                                               Amount   In US$   Million
Year      Obligor             Type of Business       Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of           Rolled Steel         0.63       -        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.          Products
1959     Adamjee Industries    Textiles               0.75       -        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement        Cement               5.25      0.42      5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                   Development           -        0.52      0.52
1969-                            Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute           Textiles             1.84      0.11      1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.           Paper Products       4.43      0.84      5.27
1980
1967     Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.              Paper                5.38      2.02      7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules         Fertilizers          1.00      2.92      3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper        Pulp and Paper       5.60      0.63      6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Limited       Food & Food            2.40      0.40      2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                              29.00      1.62      30.62
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78        -       1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Limited         Particle Board         2.70       -        2.70
Total Gross Commitments                     60.76     9.48      70.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                33.25      1.01     34.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          27.51      8.47      35.98
Undisbursed (including participants)        17.72     0.37      18.09
1/   An IFC investment of US$3.35 million (a loan of US$3.15 million and an
equity subscription of US$200,000 equivalent) in lHabib Arkady Ltd. for
a fructose syrup factory, was approved on April 30, 1981 and is not
included above.



-32-                       ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage--the construction of
the closure section of the dam--to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the
main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment
began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encoun-
tered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels
necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and
outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin
and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were made by a
number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of
repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further
damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been
repaired and has operated satisfactorily. Work to construct a flip-bucket
at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is scheduled to begin in 1981 and will be
completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool below the service
spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection works. Final protec-
tion work in the service spillway plunge pool and in the downstream channel
were completed in June 1980. Final protection work in the auxiliary plunge
pool will be completed in June 1982. Increased attention is being given to
developing the O&M program and resources to insure the long term performance
and safety of the Tarbela Project. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from
the dam have generally been met. Power generation by the first four units
began in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Spare parts for diesel
locomotives have been fully ordered. The telecommunications and signaling
scheme is making good progress. Procurement has been completed and the total
proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The Third Karachi Port Project is almost completed and all the
Credit funds are committed and most of Credit has been disbursed. The Fourth
Karachi Port Project is almost complete and as of March 31, 1981, IDA had dis-
bursed US$14.7 million. The partial adoption of a new tariff structure has
improved KPT's financial position.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This loan has been fully committed and as of March 31, 1981, dis-
bursements amounted to US$23.8 million.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit has been fully committed and US$28.6 million had been
disbursed as of March 31, 1981. The Closing Date, originally September 30,
1979, has been postponed to December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Project activities are on schedule. US$1.7 million remain undis-
bursed and had earlier been retained to install gas dehydration facilities at
Meyal oil field. These facilities are now being provided by the owner of the
field in conjunction with an LPG plant. The Borrower has therefore now been
authorized to apply these undisbursed funds to increase the capacity of the
Islamabad/Rawalpindi distribution system where extensive load shedding was
experienced during the last winter months due to demand increases.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most impor-
tant delays being with the construction and equipping of the three seed pro-
cessing plants due to disputes between contractors, consultants, and equipment
suppliers and the Punjab Seed Corporation. There have been signs of improve-
ment in the quality of pre-basic seed supplied by the research institutes,
though there is still a problem with wheat seed in Sind. It is likely that
project completion and credit closing dates will need to be further extended.



- 34 -                  ANNEX II
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All the works have been contracted after some design delay and
retenderings. Construction is about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. The engi-
neering consulting service financed by UNDP has been strengthened and extended
to cover the prolonged project period. Technical assistance provided by ODA
(UK) for engineering and financial management, leak detection and training
has been reorganized to better meet the needs of the project. Financial
results are poor despite an interim tariff increase effective October 1980.
There continues to be a need for a definitive long-range tariff policy.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment has
been completed. The closing date, originally December 31, 1980, has been
extended to June 30, 1981, to accommodate payment of retention money.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is currently about two years behind schedule. Work
on canal remodeling, surveys, and extension services are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Initial break-in period of tile and collector drain construction has
been completed enabling better estimations of costs and implementation schedule.
Experience obtained during this period indicates that project costs could be
significantly higher than appraisal estimates and completion may be delayed by
3-4 years. IDA has begun a dialogue with GOP officials regarding possible
revisions to project scope and implementation schedule with a view to contain
cost overruns and limit completion delays.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is making good progress. All project studies are near
completion. Nearly 100% of civil works contracts have been awarded and about
75% have been completed. Tendering for about 75% of the project equipment is
in progress and the balance is expected to be tendered shortly. Technical
assistance specialist services are now being provided satisfactorily and about
90% of the fellowships have been used or committed.



- 35 -                      ANNEX II
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Government and the Bank have discussed the possible restructur-
ing of the project and GOP has established a committee of senior officials to
further review this matter. The invitation to tender for the rehabilitation
of the Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) is ready to be issued; however, the Government
has been requested to complete its review before tenders are called for the
LMP.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
This project is generally proceeding satisfactorily. All key
staff are in post and pilot programs for food crop trials, vegetables, apples,
forestry and livestock are operating close to schedule. Preparation of the
proposed follow-up project has begun.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
The project is about two years behind schedule. No significant
progress yet in implementation, due principally to serious delay in formal GOP
approval of project. To accommodate GOP resource constraints, the project
scope and cost have been reduced, with IDA assistance, which facilitated GOP
approval in February 1981. IDA is currently awaiting the receipt of necessary
documentation of this approval.
Credit No. 755       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been some progress in different project activities, but
implementation is significantly behind schedule. The silviculturist has not
been recruited in spite of UNDP financial assistance. Forest inventory, with
the technical assistance of FAO, is underway and results are expected to be
available in early Fall. A consulting firm will present a new proposal for
the verification and interpretation of the inventory data in order to identify
the scope of the follow-up industrial feasibility study.



- 36-                      ANNEX II
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project approval which was delayed by GOP for about 18 months has
since been granted. Implementation is behind schedule, but lately, there
has been tangible progress in staff recruitment, building site acquisition
and construction. There have been delays in obtaining the required con-
sultants' services.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering and procurement are practically completed and con-
struction is well advanced. The marketing program is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is about eight months behind schedule mainly
due to technical difficulties in drilling and slow procurement. However, with
the availability of better equipment, materials and services, there has been
a recent improvement in well drilling. A new drilling management contractor
started work in April 1980. Two CIDA experts arrived in Pakistan in June
1980 to assist in project implementation. A firm to provide project coor-
dination services under CIDA financing started work in August 1980. Training
of OGDC personnel under the drilling management contract began in February
1981. An ODA-financed management study of OGDC is expected to start in April
1981.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about one year behind schedule. No significant
progress yet in implementation, due principally to serious delay in formal
GOP approval of project. To accommodate GOP resource constraints, the
project scope and cost have been reduced, with IDA assistance, which facil-
itated GOP approval in February 1981. IDA is currently awaiting the receipt
of necessary documentation of this approval that will enable a presentation
to IDA management on the restructured project.



- 37 -                       ANNEX II
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Good progress has been made with the evaluation component of this
project after an initially slow start due to the renegotiation of the con-
sultancy contract. Overseas fellowships have been completed. Civil works,
furniture and equipment are about six months behind schedule. Some redesign
of the evaluation program, especially in Baluchistan, may be needed due to
remoteness and absence of adequate field staff.
Credit No. 957       Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million Credit
of December 7, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Credit became effective June 5, 1980. Although the agriculture
engineer training component is yet to start and project consultants are yet to
be hired, overall progress has been satisfactory.
Credit No. 968       Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is at an early stage, with work being done in procurement,
land acquisition and initial construction of substations.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 974       Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Delays in credit effectiveness and contractor's inability to plan
their work effectively have delayed construction and will call for a revision
of contract timing to bring required outputs in line with the contractor's
abilities.
Credit No. 1019      PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit became effective October 29, 1980 and US$1.5 million has
been committed.
Credit No. 1066      Fertilizer Imports Credit:  US$50 Million Credit of
October 17, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This Credit became effective December 1, 1980.



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Credit No. 1109    Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  US$25 Million
Credit of April 24, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1113    Small Industries:  US$30 Million Credit of April 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
- 39 -
PAKISTAN
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
One year.
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Ministry of Food, Agriculture & Cooperatives
and the four Provincial Departments of Agriculture
(assisted by two independent consultants financed
by IDA).
(c) Date of first mission to consider the project:
September 1979.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:
November 10, 1980.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 7, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1981.
Section II:          Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:         Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Appointment of a local firm for supplying the
supervisory consultants (paragraph 57);
(b) Approval of the PC-1 by ECNEC (paragraph 71); and



- 40 -                        ANNEX III
(c) Establishment of a Civil Works Imprest Account
with a sub-account for each of the four provinces
and deposit by GOP of its initial advance
(paragraph 72).
Other Conditions:
(a) GOP to employ suitable qualified consultants in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to IDA
(paragraph 57);
(b) Operation of the Civil Works Imprest Account would
be satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 72); and
(c) All advances made by GOP would be directly applied to
the Provincial Sub-account of the Civil Works Imprest
Account (paragraph 72).



IBRD 15555R
U.S.S.R                                                                                                                           MARCINAO
- X           <      j z     X     CH I N A                                                P A K  I ST A N                                  M A R CH19PAKiTAN
O                                    ON FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IRAN    2 8 9    rV   1.  S                              Sind   Project  Area
IRAN                   '    '5
PAKISTAN                                      PROJECT AREA                                      PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
v ~ '- rq   OF                     H Zii 5  l l l l l l j FRESH GROUNDWATER  1000 PPM  -.  _   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
9,.        t.MAP                                              SALINE GROUNDWATER  1000 PPM                     MAJOR ROADS
Ir S <            9'                                 ____ DISTR CT BOUNDARIES                              0      MAIN TOWNS
/ C                   ?             <0 INDIA               -    DIVISION BOUNDARIES                     --         RIVERS
)'      A rss4ii,nSeu  j.
t( J A C O B A BA D                     :
Jocobabod                   0P 
-28'                                                                                                                                                     2V-
/    L  A  IR                                                      K _
(U g\x.                   S/         u                 K               U          R       /
260           D                                                                                                                  26i  K  H  ;   R  P U R (
i'/           k                F   . . _-r-~$\ '                               ,/^vo 1A
/,'  J                  7      Y         D D  AD                        A          B        A        D 
" /KARAC Hiy                                           IIF               \  
Ka ochi    ~    I~
X               t;    >               g A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D L. N4   <, 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~
\          ,2r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ wr~> 'It}
24 a            i   p    7~~T            H  A  T  T  A        i24
240                                                                      I                                                                               240-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         Ti,,. ~~~~~ttap  ha,   bo , .rp sw- d  by  th.
0    20   40    60   80   100 Ko,slleter            WOrld oRek, staff   .P,
* , . - g . r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he tsnvsfenhncO oflh. reed.,, O/
Arabian~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l $9o                                                                     the raps,, to shi~h it is citultd.
O 1 0 30  40 50  Miles                      The d-si-ni,tsi.tsusd snd the
A-dvies sh. att ths MPt1
do tt ply, i tho pa- t f th.
Ws,/d8-ek -dt it. offtAla4,..yen
jodgutet us the o   f* ttsO
a-yterritoy r any -tdor.wnt
s,-cuatan- OPsuh bovfu,tdhs
7Q0






IBRD 15556R
u S.S.R                 CHINA                                        72                                                            74                              APRIL 1981
HA  Oe7  rAS      g  .l~ l o                                                                                   d* 4ApprooAi-mote Line of Connrol
/  a7 jAREA  >rD"   7p 
745                                                                                                                                                             &~~
PAISAN   iL2                                                                         
CAMPBELLPUR                    R A W A L P I N D I                                  J  A  M  M    U
320~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ *',-' -                                                                                    0   ' "<   30                                         32b
j
J~~~~~~~~NI                                                                  A                                                                             &.tlz#ztI BAHAWA                         
RAHIMAR  KHAN                                                                                                      0 40
/    I                              /'                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA
Iso    '                     .                                                                                 H       1 1 11W   FRESH GROUNDWATER c1lD0 PPM
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SAIN  GROUNDWSATER  01000 PPM
(                                                                                                           DIVISION BOUNDARIES
S  I N  D   /                                                   J                    _     _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
S~~~~~~~~~ND ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
/                                                                                                  _.  _    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I rhs - h  .... ,=, JSt.Word sks .................... ff~Ch,_ _______..  MAJORvl ROADSR OAD
000.. 000.0  0,0,8,>, ',,Oth W0 00  ............................ 00d,0',CO 0 0.00 00F       0        MAIN TOWNS
. ....~*0~0 .',o'ooo.'                                                   PG  . ot
A      R                                                         RIVERS
.17D...... 72                                                                                                            740






IBRD 15557
-32'                                                             64                                                                 8\                                        FEBRUARY 1981
PAKISTAN
(_._                       ON FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                  L
Baluchistan Prolect Area
PROJECT AREA
LOCATIONS OF FIELD TEAMS                     f0
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
/                              ~~~~~~~~~~~DIVISION BOUNDARIES
. _          _PROVIECIAL BOUNDARIES                                                                            PS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  
/                                         -      MAJOR ROADS
0     MAIN TOWNS
,/                                         =   -    RIVERS
DEM. REP. OF AFGHANISTAN
To       A,          T           ;                              PU  N  J  A  B
Q U E T  T A|. tK0....
-2      I       R       A       N                                                                                                                  A                                   2R-
.            K    ~~A         L        AJT              /                              S                N    D
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Kd.o-AArE                                                         (_ t   '                                                          D.
O    20 40      E0   N0 M,Ie.                             L         \ t              /
U. S S R.           CHINA
9~~~~~~~~                                                    ~~                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  '   S? F '  
A ~ ~ ~ ~~A
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..NI






IBRD 15558
720                                                      FEBRUARY 1981
\ N >       U.S.S.R.      (\   9       CHINA
J'  _   ;_-   C -- o fdlmatd LOne                    U. S. S. R. 
IRAN
.1  r       hlA  j     '1                                                                                                      -     <   
PAKISTAN
.0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
360                                C H tT RA                C                                                360
700
TO,e o,p On beo prop'.0dfby 0h0 WoOd 8.00, o st.f .o,A,s,o.w to. Iho ,,dwelo. 70   _                                                 JAMMU  &  KASHMIR
of tO, n d.0 ot th. ,.pOtW0O to  ,hoh.1Sttech d t0.0t,tt,tootnto nd,adttht                                 -         
bo0nd.0.$$Othown on.thn0 m p doo nottsptt h. 00e DtO ot0 Otth Wn01 d S00 d 0,
Kepan f luhb. -I..  ag _.Z\
L AL,, K A N D 
00    X    S W  A T 
0                                           R  /    M*t *
IA    I X         K          D             A   A
Rtt,                  5                MbI,'.Ni   , -g4faaL    
0 ~   ~       ~       ~      1 
Y s_ ~~~~~~MO HMAN D .)s-  . s   (t 
\    /   ,&        \s k~~~A R DA N f            '                    J34
340                                                        7%                                   AR A(                                       Appoooimnat LI0e .34
of Contotrl
.   KUR R A M            s A                         
C-
NORTH    WAZI RISTAN{     PKISTN>
ON FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(                                          J                                          D. 1.  K North West Frontier Project Area
SOUTH  WAZIRISTAN           ,PROJECT AREA
-320      1                                                                                              -    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                               320
;   )          h   i2ERAw ~~~~MAI L \HAN   f ix_                                    _     DIVISION BOUNDARIES
* 4/ ? \ \ \ gY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
,  @<t   /    Derrn lsmogbh                                  -        MAJOR ROADS
Dor I smg  hn
0       MAIN TOWNS
01'                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERtS
0    20    40    60    80    100 Kiloneters
' .V                                                     0   10   20   30  40   5O Miles
B A L U CH I STAN                     'K                                                  720                                                               74



