CREDIT NUMBER 1163 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(On-Farm Water Management Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1163 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            /               , 1981, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by agreements of even date herewith between the Associa-
tion and Baluchistan, North West Frontier, Punjab and Sind
Provinces of the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as Baluchistan,
NWFP, Punjab and Sind respectively), Baluchistan, NWFP, Punjab and
Sind have each agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of carrying out of the Project;
(C) the International Fund for Agricultural Development
intends to make a loan (hereinafter referred to as the IFAD Loan)
to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
about twelve million dollars ($12,000,000) to assist in financing
the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to
be entered into between the International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as the IFAD
Agreement); and
(D) the Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
agreements referred to in Recital (B) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter scalled the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Baluchistan" means the Province of Baluchistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b) "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(c) "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(d) "Sind" means the Province of Sind, a political sub-
division of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(e) "the Provinces" means the Provinces referred to in
paragraphs (a) to (d) of this Section;
(f) "Baluchistan Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and Baluchistan of even date herewith as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(g) "NWFP Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and NWFP of even date herewith as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(h) "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Punjab of even date herewith as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(i) "Sind Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Sind of even date herewith as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(j) "the Project Agreements" means the agreements defined in
paragraphs (f) to (i) of this Section and "the respective Project
Agreement" means in relation to any one of the Provinces, any such
agreement to which that Province is a party;
(k) "Rupees" and "Rs" mean rupees in the Borrower's cur-
rency; and
(1) "Water Users Association Ordinance" means any of the
Provincial Water Users Association Ordinances relating to the


﻿-3-
purposes of the Project in each Province and such term shall
include the term "Act" when and if an Ordinance has been enacted
by an appropriate legislative body.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty-three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 33,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the   easonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open a Civil Works Imprest Account in the State Bank of Pakistan
and shall cause the Provinces to open Sub-Accounts all on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Disbursements
from such Imprest Account shall be made exclusively to finance
the reasonable costs of civil works required to carry out the
Project.
(c) With respect to civil works required for the Project,
the Association shall, promptly after the Effective Date, charge
to the Borrower the SDR equivalent of Rupees 23,200,000 and shall
withdraw such amount from the Credit Account and deposit it in the
Civil Works Imprest Account. Thereafter (i) the Association, at
the request of the Borrower, shall further withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in said Imprest Account such amounts as
shall be required to reimburse the Borrower for payments made out
of the Imprest Account for expenditures for civil works required
for the Project; and (ii) the Association may deposit such addi-
tional amounts into such Imprest Account as the Association
estimates may be required to cover eligible expenditures over any
consecutive four month period; provided that the amount of any
deposit, together with any amount still on deposit in the Imprest


﻿-4-
Account as of the date of such request or estimate, shall not
exceed in the aggregate Rupees 50,000,000.
(d) The Borrower shall deposit, or cause to be deposited,
in the Imprest Account and Sub-Accounts as the case may be an
initial amount in the aggregate of Rupees 5,900,000 and shall
thereafter maintain, or cause to be maintained, an amount in
Rupees equivalent to at least 20% of the amount standing in the
Imprest and the Sub-Accounts.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect
of each payment out of the Imprest Account and any Sub-Account
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall rea-
sonably request, showing that the payment was made on account of
the reasonable cost of civil works required for the Project.
(f) (i) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Imprest Account or a Sub-Account: (A) was wade
for any expenditure not eligible for financing the works referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) above; or (B) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to Section 2.02 (e) above; or (ii) if
the Borrower's contribution is below the level specified in
Section 2.02 (d) above, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association and prior to any further deposit in the
Imprest Account by the Association, deposit in the Imprest
Account, or cause to be deposited in the relevant Sub-Account,
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or sufficient to
replenish the Borrower's contribution to the required level.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.02 (c)
above, no further deposit in the Imprest Account shall be made
when the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals from the Credit Account can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account under Section 2.02 (a) or when
the total amount withdrawn from Category (1) of the Credit Account
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 24,400,000, which-
ever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining amount of the Credit from Category (1) shall follow
such procedures as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association and shall be made only to the extent that the Asso-
ciation shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted in support
of the applications for such withdrawal that all payments by
the Borrower out of the Imprest Account were made on account of
the reasonable cost of civil works required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance
with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1,
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1991, and ending June 1,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall
provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) To that end, the Borrower shall make and, with respect
to those portions of the Project for which the Provinces are
financially responsible, cause the Provinces to make adequate and
timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of the Project


﻿-6-
and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities and
equipment provided under the Project, and shall furnish to the
Association by March 1 of each year of project implementation,
beginning March 1, 1982, an estimate of project funds required for
the following fiscal year.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take
and cause to be taken all action which shall be necessary on its
part to enable the Provinces to perform all their obligations
under the Provinces Project Agreements and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(d) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take
all necessary steps, including the provision of adequate funds, to
ensure efficient customs clearance of all goods imported for use
under the Project.
Section. 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Provinces in carry-
ing out those parts of the Project for which the Provinces are
responsible, the Borrower shall make available to the Provinces,
the proceeds of the Credit under procedures, and terms and condi-
tions, mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b) In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, in accordance with
a schedule satisfactory to the Association, supervisory and other
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In selecting the watercourses to be reno-
vated under Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall use
criteria which shall be satisfactory to the Association, includ-
ing, but not limited to the establishment of an appropriate Water
User Association.
(b) In carrying out the civil works under Part A of the
Project the Borrower shall use technical criteria which shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance or replacement of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿-7-
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agrec, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Assc.iation at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as, the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the


﻿-8-
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, the measures referred to in Section 3.04 of the
Project Agreements.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Provinces
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures with respect to Categories (1) and (3)
in the table. to Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
contracts, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evi-
dencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure and shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) establish, or cause to be estab-
lished by the entities referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement, separate accounts for the purposes of the Project;
(ii) cause such accounts for each fiscal year to be audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(iii) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year (A) certified copies of the consolidated
financial statements of the accounts referred to in (i) above for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to


﻿-9-
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (a) and
(b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; (iv) provide, or cause to be provided, to the Associa-
tion on a semiannual basis notification of the verification of
withdrawals from the Provincial Sub-Accounts of the Civil Works
Imprest Account carried out by the supervisory consultants; and
(v) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association such
other information concerning such accounts and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall cause the departments and
agencies referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, in respect
to activities related to the Project, to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of the obligations under the Project Agreements and shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the performance of the said obliga-
tions.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any Province shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of such Province under the respective
Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that one or more of the Provinces shall be able
to perform its obligations under the respective Project Agreement;
(c) a change which, in the opinion of the Association may
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project,


﻿- 10 -
shall have been made in any Water Users Association Ordinance;
and
(d) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the IFAD Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
IFAD Loan Agreement; or
(B) the IFAD Loan ehas become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are avail-
able to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that any event specified in
paragraph (a) or (d) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Civil Works Imprest Account and each Sub-Account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement shall have been
established and the Borrower's initial contribution referred to in
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement shall have been deposited;


﻿- 11 -
(b) the supervisory consultants referred to in Section 3.02
(b) of this Agreement shall have been appointed; and
(c) the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
shall have approved the PC-l document with respect-to the Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that each of the Provinces
Project Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the respective Province, and,
is legally binding upon such Province in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date *  4%mdayb /f, 1981 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMIC                           ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District' of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By Ala4t"'-           4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 16              , 4$ee~
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                     80%
(a) Initial deposit          1,870,000
in Civil Works
Imprest Account
(b) Other                   26,210,000
(2) Equipment and vehicles        1,630,000         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures; 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory); 75%
(3) Salaries and allowances         810,000         25%
of professional on-farm
water management field
staff
(4) Technical assistance          2,030,000
(a) Expatriate con-                            100%
sultants
(b) Local consultants                          65%
(5) Unallocated                     850,000
TOTAL        33,400,000


﻿-14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to June 16, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 15 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in _the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   1.  Major watercourse renovation on approximately 2,000
watercourses; including construction of water storage
tanks on approximately 40 renovated watercourses in
Baluchistan.
2.   Accelerated improvements consisting mainly of heavy
cleaning of approximately 16,500 watercourses.
3.   Precision land levelling of approximately 37,000
acres including provision of necessary equipment to
farmers on a rental basis.
4.   Demonstration plots (about 1,700 acres) on
renovated watercourses.
Part B:   1.   Improvement of water management techniques for
increased agricultural production, including the provi-
sion of equipment, materials and additional staff.
2.   Strengthening the training capacity of the Federal
Water Management Cell and Provincial personnel in on-
farm water management techniques, including the provi-
sion of supplies and additional staff.
3.   Strengthening the implementation capacity of the
Federal Water Management Cell and the Provincial on-
farm water management directorates by providing, inter
alia, about 430 man-months of local consultant services
and about 80 man-months of other specialists' services.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Tenders for all vehicles shall be called for under one
tender document with deliveries staggered as appropriate.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for the
imported goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of
other goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenses incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
should be included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of Pakistan and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
Group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each Group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 19 -
Group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the Group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Watercourse improvements will be constructed by force
account and farmer donated labor; land levelling will be done by
farmers; bricks and cement would be procured by the on-farm water
management directorates following Provincial procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   Equipment, except vehicles, may be procured on the basis
of prudent shopping after solicitation of price quotations from
at least three independent suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 20 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by. the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  I9I      day of
198    .
ORSECRETARY


