 OFFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1163 PAK
DOCUMENTS
Sind Project Agreement
(On-Farm Water Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF SIND
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1163 PAK
SIND PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   6fea      //             , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and PROVINCE OF SIND (hereinafter called Sind).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-three million four hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 33,400,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Sind agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Sind, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree. as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Sind shall carry out and shall cause to
be carried out that part of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement for which Sind or any of its
agencies shall be responsible with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
agricultural and engineering practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
(b) With respect to that part of the Project for which
Sind is financially responsible, Sind shall: (i) make adequate and
timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of such part;
and (ii) take appropriate steps for the operation and maintenance
of the facilities and equipment provided under the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Sind undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance or replacement of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by Sind to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Sind
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. With respect to that part of the Project for
which Sind or any of its agencies shall be responsible: (a)
Sind shall furnish to the Association through the Borrower,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) Sind: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association at regular intervals all such information as


﻿- 3 -
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Sind shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of Sind and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.05. (a) Sind shall at the request of the Associa-
tion after consultation with the Borrower, exchange views with the
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Sind shall promptly inform the Association through the
Borrower of any condition which interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Sind of its
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Sind shall maintain, or cause its agencies to
maintain, records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations
and financial condition in respect of activities related to the
Project.
Section 3.02. Sind's On-Farm Water Management Directorate
shall in respect of activities related to the Project: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association through the Borrower
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 'its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B), the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association through the Borrower such other
information concerning such accounts and financial statements and


﻿-4-
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Sind shall at all times operate, maintain,
renew and repair, or cause to be operated, maintained, renewed and
repaired, in accordance with appropriate agricultural and manage-
ment practices, the facilities and equipment provided under that
portion of the Project located in Sind.
Section 3.04. Sind shall: (a) recover from the beneficiaries
a portion, satisfactory to the Association, of the cost of
the Project; and (b) periodically review the trends on cost
recovery levels in real terms, and take the necessary measures to
increase, if appropriate, the proportion of the project cost to be
recovered from beneficiaries.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Sind thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Sind of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Province of Sind:
Additional Chief Secretary (Development)
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sind
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT SIND
Karachi
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Sind may be taken or executed by its
Additional Chief Secretary (Development), Planning and Development
Department or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing, and he shall furnish to the Association sufficient


﻿-6-
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF SIND
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
SECRETARY


