                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001365



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-55447)



                                      ON A

                    MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND GRANT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF

                        $7.65 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                      TO THE

                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                      FOR A

            RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT



                                 June 25, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Urban and Water Unit
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (As of May 31, 2010)

                        Currency Unit = Afghani
                         SDR1.00 = US$1.61
                         US$1.00 = AFN48.30

                        AFGHAN FISCAL YEAR
                          March 21­March 20

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFMIS     Afghanistan Financial Management Information System
ANDS      Afghanistan National Development Strategy
ARTF      Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
CDC       Community Development Council
CDD       Community-driven development
DAB       Da Afghanistan Bank
DDA       District Development Assembly
ECE&PWP   Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project
EoI       Expression of Interest
ERR       Economic rate of return
FM        Financial management
FMR       Financial monitoring report
FP        Facilitating partner
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
KAP       Knowledge, Attitude, Practice
MIS       Management Information System
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MRRD      Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development
M&E       Monitoring and evaluation
NGO       Nongovernmental organization
NSP       National Solidarity Program
O&M       Operation and maintenance
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PRRD      Provincial Rural Rehabilitation and Development
RWSS      Rural water supply and sanitation
SO        Support Organization
SDU       Special Disbursement Unit
SWAp      Sector-wide approach
Watsan    Water and Sanitation (now WatSIP)
WatSIP    Water, Sanitation and Irrigation Program




                                   ii
     Vice President:     Isabel M. Guerrero
   Country Director:      Nicholas J. Krafft
      Acting Sector
                         William Kingdom
          Manager:
                             Srinivasa Rao
Project Team Leader:
                               Podipireddy
                             Srinivasa Rao
  ICR Team Leader:       Podipireddy/ Vijay
                                   Gawade




                   iii
                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
                 RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



                                                       CONTENTS

Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... v
  B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
  C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
  D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
  E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. vi
  F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... ix
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ ix
  I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................. x

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 23

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 27
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 29
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 30
  Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR........................ 33
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 37
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
  Figure: MAP




                                                                iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          ARTF - Rural Water
Country:               Afghanistan              Project Name:             Supply and Sanitation
                                                                          Project
Project ID:            P091038                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-55447
ICR Date:              06/25/2010               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:    SIL                      Grantee:
                                                                          OF AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                       USD 5.0M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 6.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 5.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Rural Rehabilitaton and Development (MRRD)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/15/2005    Mid-term Review:           10/31/2006
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2007        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sanitation                                                            25                  30
Water supply                                                          75                  70


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Pollution management and environmental health                         33                  33
Rural services and infrastructure                                     67                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Nicholas J. Krafft                   Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            William D. Kingdom                   Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader:       Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy            Tashi Tenzing
ICR Team Leader:           Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy
ICR Primary Author:        Vijay Gawade


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
i) Improve the health of rural communities in Afghanistan by increasing awareness
through integration of health and hygiene education with the provision of safe and
sustainable water supply and sanitation services;
  ii) Strengthen and build the capacity of government (central and provincial) for sector
development and that of NGOs, the private sector and the communities to scale up
provision of sustainable water supply and sanitation facilities.




                                                vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percent increase in number of households with improved access to water points;
Value
quantitative or   No Baseline Value        76017              111375         76137
Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/15/2005                  06/30/2007        12/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments        76,137 HH across 456 villages in 8 Provinces benefitted from the water points
(incl. %        constructed under the project. MRRD's KAP surveys indicate 34% increase in
achievement)    number of HH with improved access to water points.
                Percent increase in number of households with improved access to hygienic
Indicator 2 :
                sanitation facilities;
Value                                                         4110 Sanitary
                                            2850 Sanitary                     4017 Households
quantitative or No Baseline Value                             Latrines (or
                                            Latrines                          with Latrines
Qualitative)                                                  HH)
Date achieved 12/15/2005                    06/30/2007        12/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
                98% achievement against PAD targets. The project supported construction of
(incl. %
                demonstration latrines to promote sanitation and generate demand.
achievement)
                Percent decrease in the prevalence of diarrheal disease morbidity among children
Indicator 3 :
                under five years;
Value
                                            No targets        No targets
quantitative or No Baseline Value                                             Not Measured
                                            Established       Established
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2005                    06/30/2007        12/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments        Targets were not established in absence of baseline values. No ex-post surveys
(incl. %        conducted. No of Households reached with household women as targets for
achievement) Hygiene Education linking water and diarrhea are 59384.
                Percent increase in the number of individuals that practice hand washing with
Indicator 4 :
                soap at critical junctures;
Value
                                            No targets        No targets
quantitative or No Baseline Value                                             Not Measured
                                            Established       Established
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2005                    06/30/2007        12/31/2009      12/31/2009
                Targets were not established in absence on baseline values. A large number of
Comments
                HH reached through hygiene education (59384 HH) than those covered by
(incl. %
                sanitary latrines (4017 HH). MRRD's KAP Surveys indicate 55% increase in
achievement)
                hand washing.
                No. of Community Development Councils (CDCs) and/or elected water supply
Indicator 5 :
                and sanitation users groups formed/involved in project planning and



                                                vii
                  implementation;
Value
                                           No targets          No targets     297 CDCs and 13
quantitative or   No Baseline Value
                                           Established         Established    Water User Groups
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2005                06/30/2007         12/31/2009     12/31/2009
Comments
                  The Project was planned and implemented through CDCs and User Groups in all
(incl. %
                  cases.
achievement)
                  Increased capacity of Government agencies (central and provincial) to monitor
Indicator 6 :
                  the sector and manage contracts;
Value
                                           No targets         No targets
quantitative or No Baseline Value                                            Not measured
                                           Established        Established
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2005                   06/30/2007         12/31/2009     12/31/2009
                MRRD's capacity to manage contracts improved significantly from Original
Comments
                Grant Project to Additional Grant project. 35 Works contracts in Additional
(incl. %
                Grant Project were completed in 16 months compared to 43 contracts in Original
achievement)
                Grant Project in 33 months.
                Increased capacity of the local NGOs and private sector involved in social capital
Indicator 7 : mobilization and in the construction of water points and sanitary latrines (total
                number of units/year)
                                                              950+420
                                                                             760+420 Water
                                           950 Water Points Water Points,
Value                                                                        Points, 10 piped
                                           and 15 Piped       15 piped
quantitative or No Baseline Value                                            schemes & 2757 +
                                           Schemes and 2850 schemes and
Qualitative)                                                                 1260 Latrines
                                           Sanitary Latrines 2850+1260
                                                                             completed
                                                              Latrines
Date achieved 12/15/2005                   06/30/2007         12/31/2009     12/31/2009
Comments        The capacity of the NGOs and Construction Partners improved significantly from
(incl. %        89% of achievement in Original Grant Project to 100% achievement in
achievement) Additional Grant project.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                       IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     08/27/2008       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                1.67
  2     12/16/2008       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                2.39
  3     06/23/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       3.91
  4     11/04/2009           Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                4.77


                                                viii
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                            ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 After three decades of conflict and political instability, Afghanistan was, and
remains, one of the poorest and longest suffering countries among the member states of
the World Bank. At the time of the appraisal (2004), 18 million of the 23 million (75%)
people in Afghanistan lived in rural areas. An estimated 75% of these rural dwellers did
not have access to safe and reliable water supply and 89% to adequate sanitation facilities.
Moreover, many of the existing wells were found to dry up due to drought. The mortality
rate of children under 5 was as high as 25%. Half of these deaths were caused by
preventable water-borne diseases. Household economic surveys indicated that spending
on health care was second only to food.

1.1.2 The history of water supply and sanitation (WSS) efforts in Afghanistan shows that
NGOs have been taking the lead in their provision. In 2003, through its Ministry of Rural
Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD), the Government had just begun to take a more
proactive leadership role in sector development by coordinating sector stakeholders and
building on the existing successful and locally developed rural water supply practices.
Through consultative workshops with key stakeholders, MRRD had developed a "Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Policy/Strategy" for Afghanistan.

1.1.3 The policy emphasizes basic WSS service for all, improved health through the
integration of health and hygiene education with WSS, community cost-sharing, and
ownership and management including Operations &Maintenance (O&M). The role of the
Government is defined as policy development, national planning, coordination, and
monitoring and evaluation (M&E). Direct service delivery eventually will be outsourced
to the private and NGO sectors. The thrust is to carry out demand-driven water supply
and sanitation services. The emphasis is on empowering the community members, who
will be responsible for planning, designing, and implementing with the assistance of
partner organizations; and for subsequent O&M. The MRRD prepared a development
program comprising 3 scenarios for universal coverage: fast track: 5 years; medium-pace
track: 7 years; and longer term track: 10 years. The funding need for this subsector was
estimated at US$205 million (2004 figures).

1.1.4 The MRRD had submitted a project proposal for US$19.90 million for funding
from the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). The rationales for ARTF
funding are to (a) help streamline the appropriate approach to scale up service delivery in
the sector, (b) initiate partnerships between NGOs/private sector and the Government; (c)
support the Government's efforts to take a more programmatic approach to sector
development to eventually lead to a sector-wide approach (SWAp).

1.1.5 At the time of appraisal, the linkage between the RWSS Project and the ongoing
NSP was a topic of debate within the Bank. Initial funding for the NSP had been
provided by the community-driven development (CDD) component of the Emergency

                                             1
Community Empowerment and Public Works Project (ECE&PWP), which became
effective in June 2002. NSP provided block grants to communities for priority
investments in village level social and productive infrastructure.

1.1.6 However, at appraisal, two issues stood out. It was unclear whether the RWSS
sector was a national priority since it was not named in the Cabinet Paper on National
Priority Programs. The MRRD and the Ministry of Finance proposed that the Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Project be a standalone project within the new rural and
urban (drinking) water national priority program. The rural and urban water national
program never took off. Nevertheless, the Government confirmed that rural water supply
indeed was a national priority.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

1.2.1    Project Development Objectives

 (i)     Improve the health of rural communities in Afghanistan by increasing awareness
         through integration of health and hygiene education with the provision of safe and
         sustainable water supply and sanitation services

 (ii)    Strengthen and build the capacity of government (central and provincial) for
         sector development and that of NGOs, the private sector and the communities to
         scale up provision of sustainable water supply and sanitation facilities

1.2.2    Key indicators to monitor achievements of the development objectives are:

 (i)     Percent increase in number of households with improved access to water points
 (ii)    Percent increase in number of households with improved access to hygienic
         sanitation facilities
 (iii)   Percent decrease in the prevalence of diarrheal disease morbidity among children
         under five years
 (iv)    Percent increase in the number of individuals who practice hand-washing with
         soap at critical junctures
 (v)     No. of Community Development Councils (CDCs) and/or elected water supply
         and sanitation user groups formed/ involved in project planning and
         implementation
 (vi)    Increased capacity of Government agencies (central and provincial) to monitor the
         sector and manage contracts
 (vii)   Increased capacity of the local NGOs and private sector involved in social capital
         mobilization and in the construction of water points and sanitary latrines (total
         number of units /year).




                                             2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and Reasons/Justification

1.3.1 The Additional Financing for the ARTF Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project approved in 2008 made no changes to the original PDOs. However, key indicator
number (iii) of the original project­ "percent decrease in the prevalence of diarrheal
disease morbidity among children under five years" was dropped due to the difficulty of
obtaining reliable data and the underlying issue related to attribution.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The primary beneficiaries of the project in general were the rural population of
Afghanistan who lacked access to safe and adequate drinking water facilities. More
specifically, the beneficiaries were people in identified districts in the eight selected
Provinces.2

1.4.2 The other beneficiaries included Ministry of Rural Development and
Rehabilitation and its Provincial Units in the project Provinces, NGOs, and Construction
Partners who received the project support to develop their capacity to implement and
scale-up demand driven and integrated water supply and sanitation program in the
country.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

1.5.1 The original project had three major components: strengthening the capacity of
national and local government for service delivery, providing safe water and sanitation
facilities to the unserved population of Afghanistan, and implementing sectoral studies.

1.5.2 Component (a): Strengthening and capacity building of government agencies,
NGOs, private sector, and the communities ($1.28 million). This component included
technical assistance (TA), the establishment and financing of the recurrent costs (on a
declining scale) of the project implementation unit (PIU), monitoring and evaluation
(M&E), Management Information System (MIS) and training to enhance the capacity of
(a) MRRD to develop national rural water supply and sanitation sector plans; implement
sector policies and strategies; monitor and evaluate the sector; carry out more effective
sector coordination and facilitate sector development; and streamline effective and
efficient approaches to service delivery; (b) NGOs to assist communities to create
awareness regarding health, hygiene, and sanitation education; community mobilization;
(c) private sector to assist the communities to construct rural water supply and sanitation
facilities; and (d) communities to take charge of their water supply and sanitation
facilities and assume full O&M responsibility.




2
    Badghis, Baghlan, Jawzjan, Kabul, Kunduz, Samangan, Sari pul, and Takhar.


                                                    3
1.5.3 Component (b): Selection and construction of water points and construction
of sanitary latrines including the provision of community-level health and hygiene
education ($3.28 million). The component included (a) the software aspects of the
project which comprise social mobilization, capacity building, awareness-creation,
training, and supervision of construction activities; (b) the hardware aspects, which
consist of construction of approximately 950 water points with hand pumps,
approximately 15 gravity flow piped schemes with stand posts; protection and
rehabilitation of springs and existing water points, and construction of 3 demonstration
latrines per water point constructed; creation of demand for, and construction of, sanitary
latrines in each of the participating households as well as development of an O&M plan;
and (c) community-based O&M system based on existing good practices in Afghanistan.

1.5.4 Component (c): Studies ($0.44 million). This component comprised funding
various studies that would help identify appropriate approaches to deliver safe drinking
water and sanitary latrines; develop a strategy for carrying out an effective national
campaign for health and hygiene education as well as develop measures to regularly
monitor water quality. The studies would include:

  (a) Assessment of design parameters for service delivery to small rural towns;
  (b) Assessment of service delivery options for Kuchis (nomads) by consultants with
      long experience in working with Afghan nomads, preferably pre-war, to ensure
      sufficient insight into nomad lifestyle;
  (c) Study to determine a strategy for a national health, hygiene, and sanitation
      campaign, including the most effective means of developing coordination among
      different government line ministries and other stakeholders, including piloting the
      strategy;
  (d) Study, cognizant of regional experiences, to develop feasible sanitation strategy/
      approaches appropriate to Afghanistan to expeditiously expand coverage,
      including a pilot program;
  (e) Water quality monitoring; and
  (f) Surveys and studies leading to appropriate technology and sector development.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The ARTF Management Committee approved an additional financing of US$2.65
million on August 26, 2008. The Additional Financing (AF) supported changes to
components (a) and (b) of the original project. The AF would fund 420 additional water
points, 1260 latrines, hygiene promotion efforts in 14 districts in the same provinces, and
water tankering in 3 provinces in the project area.

1.7 Other significant changes:

1.7.1 The first amendment to the ARTF Grant Agreement was to provide a
procurement method for community contracting. This amendment enabled contracting



                                            4
through CDCs for gravity flow water supply schemes and minimized implementation
delays by expediting selection of contractors.

1.7.2 The second amendment to the Grant Agreement was done on September 3, 2008
under the Additional Financing to allow Provincial Rural Rehabilitation and
Development (PRRDs) (in addition to support organizations, or SOs) to facilitate
implementation of schemes to ascertain which model of facilitation was more cost
effective: through SOs or through PRRDs.

1.7.3 The water tankering component was dropped in mid-2009 as MRRD had secured
the funding to buy tankers from other sources. It was decided that the US$300,000
allocated for this component would be used to purchase a drilling rig. Since the bids for
the drilling rig were nonresponsive, the money was not spent.

1.7.4 The AF of $2.65 million included dedicated funds from USAID of US$0.4
million for Musa Qala District in Helmand Province for the construction of 225 water
points, 400 toilets, and hygiene promotion programs in 12 villages under a separate
agreement with MRRD. As the implementation arrangement was not very clear
(entrusted to DFID's PMU to implement), these activities did not take off. MRRD
requested USAID to reallocate the funds to purchase water-supply-related hand pump
equipment and tools for improved O&M. These materials have been procured and so,
most of the grant money has been used.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry:

2.1.1 Adequacy of government commitment: The Government, through MRRD, remains
committed to the rural water supply and sanitation sector. It demonstrated its
commitment by developing a National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Policy in 2004
through a stakeholder participatory approach and subsequently revising it in 2007. In fact,
the need for water supply is so great that there often was a tension within the Government
between bringing about the needed reforms in the sector versus the urgency of delivering
water points. However, the urgent desire to provide services often was prevented by the
cumbersome internal processes and procedures. The capacity to deal with this was
wanting.

2.1.2 Support to Government's programmatic approach: The project design supported
the Government's programmatic approach to sector development. The latter adopts an
integrated approach to water supply, sanitation, and health hygiene education by seeking
the active involvement of the community members, who would own the assets and be
responsible for O&M of the facilities. Improvements to the poor health conditions due to
water-borne diseases in rural Afghanistan through health and hygiene education,
sanitation, and provision of safe water are a real need. Furthermore, the project aimed to
build the sector capacity of various agencies; this capacity building, too, is needed and
relevant. The project design took into consideration the early experiences under the NSP

                                            5
and opted for the use of Community Development Councils (CDC) for delivery of
services wherever they existed. Only where they were not formed did the project opt for
the formation of Water Supply and Sanitation User Committees (WSSUC).

2.1.3 Project development objectives and key project indicators: The clearly articulated
project objectives were focused on outcomes and relevant to the sector and the country's
needs. The key project indicators were relevant to the objectives. However, the indicator
related to the health improvements was somewhat ambitious because its attribution solely
to the project interventions was difficult to assess. Therefore, under the AF, this indicator
was dropped.

2.1.4 Project components: The three project components were relevant to achieve the
project objectives. The design aimed to strengthen the capacity of the RWSS Department
in MRRD so that it could lead sector development and do away with the multiple Project
Implementation Units (PIUs)­­a PIU for a funding agency­­in the sector. This aim was
relevant and needed; but its implementation proved to be ambitious. Capacity of the
PRRDs, support organizations, private sector, and the CDCs or WSSUCs was needed and
provided for in the project. Construction of water and sanitation faculties with health and
hygiene education is relevant to improve the health condition of the rural areas as well as
the basic service level, which was quite modest and limited. In areas that lacked tested
experience, the project design proposed studies to develop better understanding and thus
propose more robust implementation modalities.

2.2    Implementation:

The following are the main factors affecting implementation of the project.

2.2.1 Country situation: The overall situation of the country did affect the
implementation of the project. The project selected provinces and districts that were
relatively safer from a security perspective. Nevertheless, the security environment
deteriorated, making it increasingly more difficult to visit project sites during
implementation support missions.

2.2.2 Availability of project manager: The start-up of the project was slow. The project
was declared effective on February 26, 2006. In fact, MRRD had selected a Project
Manager in early March 2006. However, due to security concerns, the selected candidate
has opted out. Finally MRRD was able to hire the first Project Manager, who started
work on August 3, 2006.

2.2.3 Change in implementation arrangement: (a) Under the project, an Implementation
Manual (IM), which defines the standards, approaches and guidelines for implementation
of the project, was developed. All sector stakeholders were encouraged to use the manual
to harmonize their approaches. Although the project envisaged working through CDCs
using the NSP model, this method of community contracting was not provided in the
Grant Agreement. The Grant Agreement was amended on December 18, 2006 to allow
community procurement. This amendment helped to accelerate project implementation.

                                             6
A memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed among MRRD, MOF, and Da
Afghanistan Bank (DAB) on March 8, 2008 allowed the CDCs to use their accounts for
Rural Water and Sanitation (Watsan) projects. With the MoU as a basis, the community
contracting manual was further revised to introduce new procedures for the transfer of
funds to CDCs.

(b)     The original project envisaged the hiring of SOs as facilitating partners (FPs) with
the PRRDs responsible for monitoring the FPs. During the course of the project, MRRD
entrusted the FP responsibility to the PRRDs. Instead of using SOs, the PRRDs hired
individual social mobilizers directly to conduct the software aspects of the project. The
workload was divided between these two models. Despite substantial delays, both
delivered the project targets,

2.2.4 Project planning and coordination: Project planning and coordination remained
centralized at the National Office. Joint planning meetings were rarely held to review
progress and resolve issues. Furthermore, frequent staff changes at the managerial level
(PIU) during 2008­09 affected the planning and coordination activities in the project.

2.2.5 Payments delays: A major factor that exacerbated delays was the centralized
system of approving and making payments. Time-consuming approval and payment
processes, and delays in payments to contractors, SOs, CDCs, project staff, and
consultants were factors that negatively affected project implementation. The
implementation delays ranged from 3­4 months and, in some cases, even more. As a
result, the SO contracts (at no additional cost) and time for construction of works needed
to be extended. Due to the slow start and the slow implementation, the original closing
date of the project was extended. In December 2009, prior to the closure of the project,
payment of invoices worth $1.76 million was pending.

2.2.6 Procurement: Despite the fact that several options for strengthening the capacity
of procurement were available, procurement within MRRD was weak throughout the
project period. In some cases, the Government's own procurement guidelines were
followed (works tender in Darzab District in Jawzjan Province). This caused substantial
confusion and delays. The inability of the bid evaluation committees to understand the
procedures caused unnecessary delays in the finalization of contract awards for works,
purchases of equipment for PRRDs, and renting of vehicles.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

2.3.1 A Management Information System (MIS) has been developed within the Watsan
department of MRRD. The MIS was designed largely to monitor the physical and
financial progress of the projects. It can generate quantitative information for most of the
project indicators. The existing MIS is able to monitor the project progress satisfactorily.
Although the submission of monthly and quarterly progress reports generally was
delayed, over the project period, the quality improved. No independent evaluation was
conducted for this project.



                                             7
2.4        Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Given the nature and size of the water supply and sanitation schemes
implemented under the project the project has net positive social and environmental
impacts.

2.4.2      Social and Environmental Safeguards

      (i) Social Safeguards:

               Social inclusion : Participatory planning and implementation through CDCs
               facilitated by PRRDs and SOs helped ensure the inclusion of minority and
               vulnerable and marginalized groups.
               Location of water points: Some water points were found to be located within
               the premises or compounds of mosques. These locations prevented women
               from accessing the water points. The project required that women were to be
               consulted in determining the location of water points. This requirement was
               not followed fully as the participation of women in the project processes was
               weak due to local cultural constraints.
               Land acquisition: Land required to construct reservoirs, hand pumps, and
               stand posts was obtained through private voluntary donations, available
               government land, or the community paying compensation in accordance with
               the Bank's guidelines for Land and Asset Acquisition, Entitlements and
               Compensation. However, these transactions were poorly documented as
               prevailing Pakhtunwali and Afghniyat practices3 for such transactions require
               no documentation. No strategy was developed to improve the documentation.

      (ii) Environmental Safeguards:

               Environmental impacts: At appraisal, the possible negative environmental
               impacts from the project were identified as (a) erosion and water logging in
               gravity flow schemes, and poor disposal of wastes; (b) ground water pollution
               due to improper and poorly built latrines, and (c) consumption of
               contaminated water. To address these issues, the following actions were taken:
               (a) waste disposal pits were constructed for hand pumps and stand posts.
               Concrete drains were provided under the project for water points, and, in some
               cases, communities contributed to the construction of drainage beyond the
               concrete drains provided under the project; (b) well-designed pit latrines were
               constructed at least 15 meters (m) away from the nearest drinking-water wells;
               and (c) the project promoted the installation of hand pumps over the open
               wells, as the latter are found to be contaminated with fecal coliform. In
               addition, to reduce the risk of water contamination at source and household



3
    Pakhtunwali and Afghniyat ­ traditional practices.


                                                         8
           levels, health and hygiene education was given to 59,384 households (38%
           more than those covered by water points and sanitary latrines) through 5 visits
           per household per year with the help of 1,116 trained hygiene promoters.

           Water quality testing: Under the project, after drilling, the water quality was
           to be tested for 5% to10% of the water sources. Some such tests were carried
           out in Kabul province, where a laboratory is available; but no tests were done
           in the other provinces, which lack laboratory facilities.

2.4.3   Financial Management

           Project accounting, payments, financial statements and responsibility for
           submission of audited financial statements are centralized within the Ministry
           of Finance (MOF). The government-wide Public and Financial Management
           (PFM) guidelines, which are used for all IDA and ARTF projects, were
           assessed with the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA),
           PFM performance measurement framework in 2005 and at the end of 2007.
           These were found to be better than the average of low-income countries,
           particularly on the Accounting, Recording and Reporting dimensions.

           Records of the project's funds receipts and disbursements from inception until
           closure were maintained at the MOF Special Disbursement Unit (SDU). The
           disbursement records also were maintained at the line ministry (MRRD). The
           records for this project, as for all other emergency projects in Afghanistan,
           were maintained manually at the SDU from inception until March 2005, when
           the SDU started using the Afghanistan Financial Management Information
           System (AFMIS) for all projects as well as the financial transactions of line
           ministries financed under this project. Supporting documents were maintained
           satisfactorily for all payments.

           Funds flow to all implementing agencies was controlled centrally by the MOF
           (SDU). An assessment of the process reveals that it was managed
           appropriately from the beginning of the project. Initially, financial reporting
           was poor. Monthly and quarterly financial reports­­including the mandatory
           financial monitoring reports to be submitted quarterly to the Bank­­were not
           prepared regularly and did not contain all the required information. However,
           financial reporting improved considerably over time. The financial monitoring
           reports (FMRs) were prepared and submitted regularly from the 4th quarter of
           SY1385 (2006­07). Annual audited financial statements were submitted
           regularly, although later than the mandated submission deadline.

           The audit opinion of the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan was
           qualified (unclean) for SY1385 and unqualified (clean) for SY1386 and
           SY1387. Satisfactory responses were provided on the issues raised in the
           SY1386 audit report. The SY1387 audit report was due on September 22,
           2009, but was submitted late on December 20, 2009. There was one issue of

                                            9
           differences between the Financial Statements and the FMR. This was
           communicated to the MRRD on February 22, 2010, and their response has
           been received. There were no other key issues reported in the management
           letter.

           Given that the financial management systems in place were weak when the
           project became effective, it can be concluded that FM capacity has been built
           steadily over the life of the project. A financial management review was done
           in April 2010, which included a transaction review of the expenditures up to
           March 31, 2010 of the project. The review had no key issues.

2.4.4   Procurement

           Procurement of goods, works and services at the national level as well as by
           CDCs was consistently monitored and supported to ensure compliance with
           the Bank's guidelines and the provision under the community procurement
           method as specified in the Grant Agreement amended on December 18, 2006.
           Procurement at the community level adhered to the guidelines given in the
           community procurement manual developed by the PIU and cleared by the
           Bank on May 6, 2008. Procurement plans and schedules were submitted as
           required.

           The procurement procedures followed were transparent and competitive.
           However, in several instances, procurement procedures were delayed due to
           confusion created by the requirements of the Bank Guidelines versus
           Government Procurement Procedures and Practices. Such delays were
           observed with respect to works contracted in Darzab District of Jazjan
           Province and purchases of equipment by PRRDs. The bid evaluation
           committee's lack of understanding of the required procedures caused delays in
           the finalization of award of tender for works and purchasing of items such as
           equipment for the PRRDs and renting vehicles through shopping procedures.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation /Next Phase

2.5.1   Sustainability of Water Assets

           The operation and maintenance strategy for water assets was built into the
           project design. The project succeeded in putting in place community-based
           maintenance systems by appointing and training caretakers/scheme mechanics
           (478 across 456 project villages) at the CDC level supported by District
           Mechanics attached to PRRDs. These systems were supported through
           community contributions and technical support from PRRDs.

           The Sector Study findings suggest that the Caretakers System for water points
           was functional in 72% of cases. Furthermore, CDCs took the lead in 44% of
           cases in carrying out major repairs through community contributions. The lead

                                          10
           time for repairs fell from 4 weeks to 1 week. These achievements show that
           the community-based maintenance system, piloted under the project, is
           working. Continued support will be required to make these community-based
           maintenance systems a part of the long-term O&M strategy.

2.5.2   Capacities at Central Government and PRRDs

           The PIU in Kabul and the PRRDs demonstrated improved capacity and
           performance during the Additional Financing. Considerable work also was
           being done in-house on refining the RWSS policy further and streamlining the
           sector approach in the country through consultations and setting standards and
           guidelines. Lessons of experience from the project show that, with limited
           investment, the capacities of central- and province-level institutions can be
           enhanced. However, to ensure continuity, such efforts need to be backed up
           with adequate and secure funding. This funding did not come through under
           the project, and the PIU is already closed due to lack of financial support.

2.5.3   Follow-on Project

           MRRD submitted a request to the Bank (July 12, 2009) to fund a follow-on
           project. The Bank is in dialogue with MRRD on the need to carry out
           necessary sector diagnostic studies so as to establish an adequate knowledge
           base to underpin the formulation of a follow-on operation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

3.1.1 The objectives of the project­­(a) improving the health of rural communities
through integrating health and hygiene education with water supply and sanitation, and
(b) strengthening the capacity of central and provincial governments, the NGO and
private sectors are highly relevant. The significance accorded them by the project is in
line with the priorities set out by the Government of Afghanistan in its National
Development Strategy (ANDS) and with MRRD's policy on rural water supply and
sanitation (first Policy draft 2004, revised in 2007, and still being modified). The latter
adopts a demand-responsive approach that aims to build the capacity of community-
based institutions.

3.1.2 The project succeeded in demonstrating that, despite the fact that it faced
centralized operational challenges, the decentralized approach of implementing
community-based sustainable water, hygiene, and sanitation services works. To more
effectively scale up the delivery of water supply and sanitation services to the unserved
population of Afghanistan, the government needs to further decentralize its centralized
operations.




                                            11
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 Project Development Objective 1: Improve the health of rural communities in
Afghanistan by increasing awareness through integration of health and hygiene
education with the provision of safe and sustainable water supply and sanitation services.

3.2.2 Despite the challenging security situation and the difficult reconstruction context,
activities planned at appraisal and the additional activities agreed when the additional
funding became available were delivered. The hardware results achieved by the project,
although with substantial delays, were close to the agreed targets (86% for water points,
98% for sanitation facilities) and surpassed the number of families targeted for hygiene
education. The project also developed a community-based maintenance system that was
found to be functional in 72% of cases, thus indicating sustainable use of the assets
created. In view of the above, the achievement of Project Development Objective 1 is
rated as Satisfactory.

3.2.3 Due to lack of reliable data at appraisal, baseline values for the key indicators were
not available. Due to delays in project start and the resulting pressure to construct water
points, the PIU did not focus on collecting baseline information. MRRD's impact
Knowledge, Attitude, Practice (KAP) Surveys showed increases in the number
individuals practicing hand-washing with soap (55% increase), but the resultant health
benefits, could not be quantified. The qualitative achievements of this objective therefore
are difficult to assess.

3.2.4 The project delivered the following outputs, which contributed to achievements of
the project Development Objective:

                                    Table 3.1 Performance Indicators

 Performance indicators             Original        Additional       Targets        Achieved       Achieve-
                                     Grant           Grant            Total            at           ment
                                    Project          Project                        Closure          (%)
                                    Targets          Targets
No. of water points                   950+15               420            1385            1190            86
installed
No. of sanitary latrines                  2850              1260          4110            4017            98
constructed
No. of families reached                 31777*          11305*           43082          59384            138
through hygiene education
Increase in individuals                    Not              Not                         55%+              55
practicing hand-washing            Established      Established
with soap (%)
No. of caretakers trained                   856              420           1276           1285           100
Notes:
* = Targets not formally set in PADs but estimated by MRRD.
+ = Based on MRRD's KAP surveys conducted in the field and averaged for all 8 project provinces.




                                                       12
3.2.5 The delivery of water points, hygiene, and sanitation in an integrated way offered
opportunities to rural communities to maximize safety of water at source and household
levels. The interventions on hygiene education brought significant change to hygiene
practices, as evident from MRRD's KAP Surveys. The project succeeded in the
construction of targeted demonstration latrines although only 1 technical option of 4 was
implemented. There is no clear evidence to show the use of these latrines and the
generation of demand. Although there was a provision for scaling up latrine construction
by using the Sanitation Revolving Fund mechanism, the PIU did not pursue this
effectively.

3.2.6 The project succeeded in addressing sustainability issues by demonstrating an
approach for setting up community-based maintenance system at the community level,
which increased prospects for sustainability of water points.

3.2.7 Project Development Objective 2: Strengthen and build the capacity of government
(central and provincial) for sector development and that of NGOs, the private sector and
the communities to scale up provision of sustainable water supply and sanitation
facilities.

3.2.8 MRRD's ARTF Project Implementation Unit (PIU) attached to the Water,
Sanitation and Irrigation Program (WatSIP) Department and Provincial units
demonstrated commitment and provided the required technical support to the project.
Institutional model of independent project implementation (without the support of SOs)
by PRRDs in 4 provinces demonstrated enhanced capacity within PRRDs. The 2006
amendment of the ARTF Agreement to allow community procurement helped reduce the
significant burden of centralized contract management. The quality of inputs and
reporting provided by the staff improved in the later part of the project.

3.2.9 The PIU, however, suffered and had to face many challenges on account of the
lengthy administrative procedures followed by MRRD and the Ministry of Finance. In
addition to these, inadequate in-house technical support on procurement and finance kept
the senior project staff busy in following up administrative issues rather than dealing with
technical project issues. This splintering of effort negatively affected monitoring and
technical support to the project. Project planning, coordination with provinces,
procurement, and funds disbursement remained weak throughout the project life despite
the continued concerns raised by Supervision Missions.

3.2.10 However, PIU's capacity to manage contracts improved significantly during the
project period. Thirty-five works contracts during Additional Financing were completed
in 16 months, compared to 43 contracts in the Original Grant Project in 33 months. No
contracts were cancelled during Additional Financing, compared to 10% contracts (4 of
43) under the Original Project. One of the main objectives of the project was to
strengthen the capacity of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Department, (initially
known as WatSan, but more recently called the WatSip) to assume leadership in the
sector. While the Department became more involved at the later stage than at the
beginning of the project, much remains to be done to fulfill this aim. To cite an example,

                                            13
there are various factors such as frequent turnover of counterpart staff due to poor salary
and incentive structures. .One aim of the project was to rationalize the individual PIUs for
donor-funded projects by doing away with such PIUs and making the RWSS (Watsan)
Department assume greater responsibility in the sector. This aim was met to some extent.
The number of PIUs at the start of the project had dropped near the end. This decline also
may have been due to default as the donor projects closed or may have been because the
RWSS Division was gradually assuming greater leadership in the sector.

3.2.11 Nevertheless, given a very difficult country and environment, the achievement of
the project Objective is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 At the appraisal of the original project and also at the time of Additional Funding,
economic analysis was not carried out due to the lack of reliable data. Given the lack of
information available and in the absence of any ex-post analysis, a sample analysis of
cost inputs and findings of ex-post analyses of similar water supply interventions in NSP
was used.

3.3.2 A comparison of cost norms at appraisal and actual cost incurred for water points
indicates significant reduction in spending on water points during Additional Financing.
The costs incurred on water points in Additional Financing were 25% less than those in
the original project and 20% less than the cost norm of the AF appraisal.

                       Original Grant (Cost in $)                      Additional Funding (Cost in $)
                       Water Points      Latrines                      Water Points     Latrines
At appraisal           1500 (950+15)     50 (2850)                     2894 (420)       78 (1260)
Actual*                3080              NA                            2310             60+
Notes:
1 Figures in bracket indicate physical nos.
2 NA = Disaggregated costs for latrines not available
3 * = based on MRRD's Estimates, + cost of the material supported through the project

3.3.3 An ex-post economic analysis of the water program in NSP was made in September
2008 by an independent consultant, and the same was used here to evaluate the benefits
of water supply interventions. The technical options and implementation approach in
NSP and those implemented in the ARTF-WatSan project were similar; hence, it is
considered that the findings of the ex-post economic analysis of the NSP are still valid
and can be referred to. The analysis4 used a sample of 68 subprojects5 across the country
that benefitted approximately 11,168 rural families spread over 91 villages.



4
    Ex-Post Economic Analysis of National Solidarity Programme, S.Selvarajan, September 2008.
5
    13102 m length of pipes, 745 m3 water storage, and 304 shallow/deep wells/hand pumps installed.




                                                        14
3.3.4 Value of time saved: Before the NSP interventions, approximately 120 days were
used annually per family (one-third of them using donkeys) to transport water. After the
NSP interventions, this figure dropped to 35 days per family. The time used per trip to get
water has come down substantially to just 14 minutes­­one-fifth of the time taken before
the project. The saved labor days are from both male and female adults and children,
some of whom have used the saved time to become employed both on farm and off farm
and/or engaged in self-income-generating activities, such as carpet weaving at home.
Approximately 7% of the population reported water-borne diseases affecting them at
least 6 times in a year prior to NSP interventions. Now, only 2% of the population is
reporting water-borne related illness. Frequency of such illness per person also has come
down to just twice in a year.

3.3.5 Returns to investment: Quick analyses of 68 water supply subproject sample
reveals that subprojects with an investment cost of less than Af 1.5 million have yielded
higher economic rates of return (ERRs) (above 30%) besides benefiting more families
(200­300). These rates are either comparable or even better than the high-investment
subprojects (above Af 1.5 million). The comparison between small and big water supply
infrastructure investments favors small investment projects, from both the efficiency and
equity points of view.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.4.1 The project objectives were highly relevant to the government's program and the
sector policy. The project was able to deliver WSS benefits to 76,137 rural households.
The project strengthened the capacity of government institutions at the center and
provincial levels, and build the capacity of NGOs, private sector, and the participating
communities. The project offered a holistic approach to deliver safe and sustainable WSS
services by integrating it in health and hygiene education. The WatSIP Department and
the PRRDs have begun to take a leadership role in the delivery of WSS services. This
role, of course, was achieved with delays because administrative support was not
effective.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The planning processes of the project focused on inclusion and participation of
women and, depending on local circumstances, women's participation was promoted.
However, women's participation in the project processes remained continually weak.
Women were more accessible as individuals at the household level than as a group at the
community level. Hygiene education programs targeted women during visits to
households and made them aware of the project interventions as well as of household
hygiene practices. The project mobilized Community Health Workers in pairs of 1
woman and 1 man in collaboration with Ministry of Health to improve access to women

                                            15
in villages. These couples reached 59,384 households during the project life and
influenced behavioral change among 55% of individuals from the project villages.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 The project succeeded in implementing a decentralized approach through CDCs,
local government, and central Government. PRRDs independently managed the social
mobilization aspects of the project in 4 provinces and delivered the project outputs,
indicating promising potential for replicating the same approach in the future/ other
similar programs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.3 The project experience helped the MRRD to test and develop approaches and
standards in a demand-driven and integrated water supply and sanitation program and
integrate them with the policies being developed to streamline and move on to the sector
wide approach. These approaches and standards now are being promoted among other
donors and NGOs implementing Watsan programs in the country.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1 The MRRD organized a stakeholders' workshop to get feedback on the project
achievements, performance of Bank and MRRD, and other project-related issues. The
workshop was organized on April 3, 2010 and was attended by senior officials from
MRRD, WatSIP Department, and PRRDs from 8 project provinces; and representatives
of CDCs, Supporting Organizations, and UNICEF. Findings of the Workshop are
presented in appendix 6 and summarized below.

     The project remained most relevant and successful in addressing the needs of water
     and sanitation in provinces. The project helped build the capacities of CDCs,
     PRRDs, and District Development Assemblies (DDAs) over the last four years; and
     future projects can be taken up using a similar institutional model.
     Province-level planning should be encouraged to reflect local situations in planning
     and to enhance ownership of the project at the lower level.
     The implementation schedule of 18 months for water supply schemes is adequate
     provided that procurement and financial delays are avoided at the national level.
     Inclusion issues need to be reviewed closely as (a) Supporting Organizations tend
     to work close to province headquarters, whereas donors prefer to go to remote
     villages; and (b) flexibility of technical norms to include scattered small groups of
     families (which otherwise are excluded under the norm of 1 water point for 25
     families).
     Appointment of Caretakers at the CDC level has helped CDCs improve the
     maintenance of water points.
     Community contracting through CDCs has been successful and cost effective.
     Procurement procedures need to be simplified.


                                           16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

4.1 Weak Institutional Capacity

4.1.1 MRRD is yet to develop its capacity in technical areas such as geophysical
investigations, water quality monitoring, and disinfection of water sources. No clear
strategies were developed to address these areas. Lack of availability of specialists in
these areas and of availability of sufficient equipment are additional issues.

4.1.2 PRRDs demonstrated their capacity to manage subprojects. However, their
continued reliance on the national office affected their effective capacity to support the
project. Slow pace of reforms further constrained their capacity building and will
continue to undermine their growth toward emerging as decentralized local government
institutions.

4.1.3 Availability of qualified technical staff has been an issue as the government
environment is not attractive due to low salaries and poor working environments. There
also are security concerns that demotivated staff to work at the local level. Most of the
staff working on the project are on contract and funded by donors. Sustained funding
would be required to support their salaries, and there is a risk that the staff may leave as
soon the funding support is withdrawn. The PIU already closed because financing for the
project ceased on the closing date of the project.

4.2 Sustainability

4.2.1 The National Policy developed by MRRD makes CDCs fully responsible for the
O&M of water assets. However, the policy lacks provisions for the required back-up
technical support or the O&M financing to CDCs in case of major repairs or
rehabilitation of existing water points. Institutional mechanisms and capacity at the
province or districts to support such maintenance or rehabilitation is almost nonexistent
due to lack of tools, staff, and funding. There is significant risk that unattended repairs
may lead to abandoning of water points. Furthermore, the procurement of hand pumps
was handled by CDCs with limited or no quality control from the project institutions and
there are reports that the quality of hand pumps procured was inferior. All these factors
significantly undermine the sustainability of water points created in the project.

4.3 Security

4.3.1 Increased security risks in the country will continue to affect project staff
movements and the MRRD's effective capacity to provide services.




                                            17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as Satisfactory, based
on a cumulative analysis as listed below.

Criteria                     Rating                            Justification
Strategic Relevance and    Highly         Project objectives were highly relevant and closely
Approach                   Satisfactory   aligned with Government's priorities of demand-led
                                          water and sanitation. Project continued using
                                          decentralized approach of strengthening local
                                          institutions advocated by government.
Technical, Financial,      Moderately     Project has innovative approach of integrated
and Economic Aspects       Satisfactory   delivery of water, hygiene, and sanitation and at
                                          entry. It was developed based on the limited baseline
                                          data, experiences, and strategies available in country.
                                          The overarching goal was to deliver basic services to
                                          unserved rural population. No economic analysis
                                          carried on at appraisal, and no ex-post economic
                                          analysis at the closure.
Poverty, Gender and        Moderately     Participatory planning processes were inclusive, were
Social Development         Satisfactory   monitored by SO, and were found satisfactory.
Aspects                                   Women's participation, although limited, was
                                          targeted individually through the hygiene education
                                          programme. The Project intended to study service
                                          delivery options for Kuchi nomad tribes, the poorest
                                          and most vulnerable population in Afghanistan, but it
                                          couldn't be taken up due to poor responses to EoIs.
Policy and Institutional   Satisfactory   At entry, Project preparation happened in parallel
Aspects                                   with policy development. The project preparation
                                          therefore, included most of the policy agreements
                                          reached at the Government level. Project prioritized
                                          institutional building at local level (provinces) and
                                          that of CDCs.
Stakeholder                Satisfactory   MRRD        carried    out     several    stakeholders'
Consultations                             consultations on policy and implementation issues
                                          that improved their sense of ownership during
                                          implementation.
Implementation             Moderately     Project adopted institutional model from NSP and
Arrangements               Satisfactory   ensured satisfactory technical and facilitation support
                                          to CDCs through PRRDs and SO. In
                                          acknowledgment of weak capacity, PIU at national
                                          level was set up. Operational effectiveness of
                                          national level arrangement was not sufficiently
                                          assessed at time of appraisal.


                                                18
Monitoring and          Satisfactory   Monitoring indicators were relevant and strongly
Evaluation                             linked to the PDO. Project reporting was streamlined
Arrangements                           to capture data on these indicators. KAP Surveys
                                       were additionally included to capture data on
                                       behavioral change in hygiene practices.
Risk Assessment         Satisfactory   At entry, appraisal clearly identified risks and
                                       suggested mitigation measures. Measures were
                                       monitored continuously throughout the project life.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.2 The Bank supported the project extensively through fielding multidisciplinary
supervision teams throughout the project period. Unfortunately, field visits diminished in
the later part of the project due to increased security concerns. World Bank support has
been supportive, opportunistic, yet flexible to adapt to local conditions in country.

5.1.3 Bank missions focused closely on implementation issues identified through field
visits and followed up with the MRRD to resolve them. The missions' approach remained
to increase the pace of implementation by streamlining procurement and financial
procedures, monitoring and related capacity building issues, and strengthening overall
project management and coordination at national and province levels to ensure increased
facilitation support to CDCs for implementation of the project. In some cases, where
feasible, the Bank allowed flexibility in technical options, such as using piped schemes
instead of hand pumps, based on contextual site conditions to ensure that water services
were delivered to the project communities.

5.1.4 The Bank also took the opportunity, based on the willingness and preparedness of
MRRD, to further test the decentralized approach by implementing the project through
two institutional models: one with facilitation through SOs and PRRD; and the other
exclusively with PRRD. The models were tested for more than a year (June 2008­
December 2009). However, the results were inconclusive regarding indicating the way
forward on institutional arrangements for future projects, primarily due to insufficient
documentation of the performances of these models.

5.1.5 The Bank flagged harmonizing RWSS and the NSP from the beginning of the
project. More conceptual work should have been done on this issue during the project
period (while implementation through CDCs was tested under Additional Financing).
Hardware components had many challenges and required more attention from the
missions. Software issues such as inclusion of vulnerable and remote communities, use of
demonstration latrines, and effectiveness of hygiene education appeared to receive less
attention. More learning could have been captured and integrated to strengthen the inputs
on software issues of the project.



                                             19
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.6 Despite adverse security conditions, the Bank continued to monitor closely and had
organized implementation support missions regularly that helped the PIU to achieve its
targets while testing community driven approaches. This has given adequate confidence
to the ministry to decide on moving forward with a sector wide approach (as in the new
policy paper). The Ministry was also encouraged to conduct studies to learn lessons
(Sector Study in 2008-9). The Ministry is now more confident to implement much larger
programs and have drawn up plans to increase coverage of both water and sanitation in
next fifteen years. Due to these reasons and as other ratings are looking positive, overall
rating is given Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Criteria                      Rating                           Justification
Government Ownership      Satisfactory    Government remained highly committed to achieve
and Commitment to                         project objectives and continuously monitored project
Achieve Development                       at ministry level.
Objectives
Provision of Enabling     Satisfactory   Government swiftly moved to develop National
Policy Environment                       Framework of Policies on Rural Water Supply and
                                         Sanitation. Developed first draft in 2004 with
                                         additional revisions that integrated experiences from
                                         the project. Policies fully supported decentralized
                                         approach and empowered CDCs to plan and
                                         implement water and sanitation program.
Adequacy of               Moderately     Government continued (but in limited number)
Stakeholders              Satisfactory   stakeholders' consultations by anchoring and
Consultations                            facilitating National Water and Sanitation Group and
                                         kept refining its draft policy based on the learning
                                         from the sector.
Readiness for             Moderately     Government set up PIU at national level and
Implementation            Unsatisfactory strengthened PRRDs in provinces. PIU's operational
                                         effectiveness was affected due to centralized decision
                                         making processes within the ministry, which delayed
                                         approvals and funds disbursement.
Fiduciary (Financial      Moderately     Financial management steadily improved over project
Management,               Satisfactory   period. Compliance with key finance covenants was
Procurement)                             delayed. Funds disbursement delays were substantial
                                         and continued throughout life of project, affecting
                                         implementation. Procurement capacity remained weak
                                         throughout project due to weak technical capacity
                                         within PIU and in provinces, confusion on procedures
                                         to be followed, and lengthy approval processes.

                                            20
Adequacy of Transition   Moderately     High dependence on donor funding and limited core
Arrangement              Unsatisfactory budget made it difficult to plan any but sustained
                                        transition arrangement, especially at national level.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.1 The project was implemented through PIU (ARTF) set up within the WatSan
Department, but more recently WatSIP Department, of MRRD. The department could
lead the project satisfactorily in the beginning with the help of the PIU, which had
experienced staff. However, the PIU was not able to maintain its effectiveness due to
frequent turnover of senior counterpart staff in the department. As the project moved into
real implementation with several contracts running simultaneously, the approvals and
payments got embroiled in lengthy administrative procedure. These caused payment
delays and thus affected the implementation of the works on the ground. Despite
recommendations to strengthen the technical staff (procurement), the PIU continued to
manage issues with the available staff and spent more time on administrative issues than
on the project issues. At times, the WatSIP Department lacked leadership to resolve
issues faced by PIU.

5.2.2 CDCs showed willingness and commitment to the new integrated approach of water,
hygiene, and sanitation, and commitment to maintain the water points. Some CDCs in
remote areas took proactive role in identifying competent construction partners and
managed to complete the works. CDCs also mobilized community contributions (44%
cases) for repairs and kept the caretaker system functional (72% cases). Overall, CDCs'
performance was far beyond satisfactory and supported the project with commitment and
strength.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.3 It is clear that MRRD demonstrated strong commitment to achieving the project
objectives and at the same time made concerted efforts to develop the sector. However,
the deteriorating security situation, and unavailability of skilled management staff
constrained it from accelerating implementation in the beginning although this picked up
in the later part of the project. MRRD also promoted CDCs based implementation. As
such, the rating lies borderline between Moderately Unsatisfactory and Moderately
Satisfactory but considering the constraining environment within which it has worked,
the rating given is Moderately Satisfactory.




                                           21
6. Lessons Learned

Some lessons learned from this project are:

6.1     Integrated delivery of water, hygiene, and sanitation with a focus on
sustainability. Integrated delivery of these services is highly relevant for Afghanistan,
where the coverage is poor and mortality among children is high due to water-borne
diseases. Scaling up these services is equally important and urgent. However, in
Afghanistan, unless the capacity of Government and other institutions is built to operate
effectively and the decentralization approach continues to be strengthened, scaling up
will not happen. Furthermore, the demonstrated success of community-based
maintenance systems under the project needs to be consolidated and scaled up.

6.2     Technical capacity to be further enhanced in the sector. There is a need for the
ministry to make continued efforts to develop strategic partnerships with other agencies;
for NGOs and donors to develop a coordinated funding mechanism for the program; and
for sustained sector development activities. While the ministry is expected to make these
efforts, strategies and technical capacity on key sector issues such as developing a
database on sector indicators, geophysical investigations to locate ground water sources,
procuring quality hand pumps, monitoring water quality, disinfecting water sources, and
designing complex piped schemes must be developed and supported with sustained
funding by the donors/ other funding partners.

6.3     Conflict between emergency and long term sustainability. When a country is
transiting from an emergency reconstruction phase to a well-advanced development
phase, the challenge is to balance quick delivery of services and sustainability. Similarly,
in the case of the ARTF RWSSP, the challenge was to balance the conflict between
sustainability and the need to provide services quickly to the provinces. Unless this
transition is clearly communicated by the Government, emergency reconstruction will be
given higher priority than sustainability.

6.4     Upfront recruitment process of key staff. Delayed project start-up could have
been avoided if recruitment of key staff, such as the project manager, had been done
upfront. The long lead time is important for countries whose security situation is not
stable.

6.5     Bank management needs to hold modest expectations. Risk is inherently high
in the post-conflict period in Afghanistan. Thus, Bank management's expectations need
to be adjusted in line with what can be reasonably achieved through such process-
oriented projects. Implementation procedures should be simplified, flexible enough to
accommodate operational effectiveness of institutions and specific implementation needs.




                                              22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

Nil

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

Nil

(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders

Nil




                                      23
                           Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal           Actual/Latest
                                                                                Percentage of
          Components                     Estimate*             Estimate
                                                                                 Appraisal
                                       (US$ millions)        (US$ millions)
Strengthening and capacity
building of government agencies,
                                               1.97                 2.009           102%
NGOs, private sector and the
communities
 Selection and Construction of
Water Points and construction of               5.24                 3.320            63%
sanitary latrines
 Studies                                       0.44                 0.771           175%

              Total Baseline Cost              7.65                 6.100          79.74%
Physical Contingencies
                                               0.00                 0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies
                                               0.00                 0.00             0.00
             Total Project Costs               7.65                 6.10
Project Preparation Costs                      0.05                 0.00              .00

       Total Financing Required                7.70                 6.10           79.22%

`* Combined for Original Grant and Additional Financing

(b) Financing


                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                        Type of                                     Percentage of
         Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                      Cofinancing                                     Appraisal
                                                      (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Trust Funds                                           0.00           0.00           0.00
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust
                                                      7.65           6.10          79.74%
Fund




                                                 24
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component


          Components                                           Outputs
Strengthening and capacity            MRRD Developed National Rural Water Supply and
building of government agencies,      Sanitation Sector Policy
NGOs, private sector and the          Supporting Organizations in 8 provinces established 297 CDCs
communities.                          and 13 Water User Groups
                                      CDCs (297) and Water user Groups (13) assumed full
                                      responsibility for O&M of 1190 water points and 10 gravity
                                      piped schemes.

Selection and Construction of         No. of Water Points Installed                       : 1190
Water Points and construction of      No. of Sanitary Latrines Constructed                : 4017
sanitary latrines and provision of    No. of families reached through hygiene education   : 59384
community-level health and            No. of Caretakers trained                           : 1199
hygiene education
Studies (In Original project)         Sector Assessment Study completed in August 2009




                                              25
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                            (Including assumptions in the analysis)


N/A

(No ex-post economic analysis was carried out for the project and recorded in the project document for the
original and additional ARTF allocations. As such, economic analysis data relating to NSP's water program
was used in the main report.)




                                                   26
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
         Names                           Title                   Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
                        Sr. Sanitary/Environmental
Tashi Tenzing                                                  SASDU Task Team Leader
                        Engineer/Mission Leader
Toshiaki Keicho         Sr. Urban Environment Specialist       SASDU Environment
Christophe Bosch        Sr. Water and Sanitation Economist     SASDI Engineering
                                                                     Social Development
Asta Olesen              Sr. Social Development Specialist     SASDI
                                                                     and Gender
Charles Delfiex        JPA                                     SASDU Consultant
Mohammad Qahir Haidari Operations Officer                      SASDU Co-TTL
                                                                     Finance
Manoj Agrawal            Financial Management Specialist       SARFM
                                                                     Management
Hasan Quamrul            Procurement Specialist                SARPS Procurement

Asger Christensen        Sr. Operations Officer                 SASRD Advisor
Amer Zafer Durrani       Sr. Transport Specialist               SASDT
Karine Fourmond          Water Supply and Sanitation Specialist SASDU Engineering
Supervision/ICR
1.Tashi Tenzing          Sr. Sanitary/Environmental Engineer   SASDU Task Team Leader
                                                                     and Team Member
2.Karine Forumond        Water Supply and Sanitation Specialist SASDU Task Team Leader
3.Srinivasa Rao          Senior Waster Supply and Sanitation SASDU Task Team Leader
Podipireddy              Specialist
Muhammad Wali
                      Financial Management Analyst             SARFM Finance Management
Ahmadzai
Abdul Mohammad Durani E T Consultant                           SASDI    Consultant
Nagaraju Duthaluri    Senior Procurement Specialist            SARPS    Procurement
Deepal Fernando       Senior Procurement Specialist            SARPS    Procurement
Mariam Haidary        Program Assistant                        SACAF    Assistant
Masoomullah Hamdard E T Consultant                             SASDI    Safeguards
Obaidullah Hidayat    E T Consultant                           SASDI    Safeguards
Abdul Wali Ibrahimi   Operations Analyst                       SASDU    Operations Mgmt.
Asila Wardak Jamal    Consultant                               SASDI    Consultant
Arun Kumar Kolsur     Procurement Specialist                   SARPS    Procurement
Asha Narayan          Financial Management Analyst             SARFM    Finance Management
Mohammad Yasin Noori E T Consultant                            SASDI    Consultant
Kenneth O. Okpara     Sr Financial Management Specialist       SARFM    Finance Management
Asta Olesen           Senior Social Development Specialist     SASDI    Social and Gender
Mohammad Arif Rasuli Sr Environmental Specialist               SASDI    Environment
                      Sr. Institutional Development
Soma Ghosh Moulik                                              SASDU Sanitation
                      Specialist

                                            27
Rahimullah Wardak         Procurement Specialist             SARPS Procurement
Nargis Yousaf             Financial Management Analyst       SARFM FM Analyst
Vidya Mahesh              Program Assistant                  SASDU
Vijay Gawade              ICR Consultant                     SASDU Consultant


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                     US$ Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                           No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                              11                      13.41
  FY06                                              13                      15.22
  FY07                                              20                      22.60
  FY08                                                                       0.12
                                 Total:             44                      51.35
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                               0                       0.00
  FY06                                               0                       0.00
  FY07                                               0                       0.00
  FY08                                              24                      68.31
  FY09                                              27                      65.57
 FY10                                               29                      73.46

                                 Total:             80                     207.34




                                            28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
             (If any)

               N/A




                29
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

MRRD organized stakeholder's workshop to get feedback on achievements of project,
performance of Bank and MRRD and other project related issues. The workshop was
organized on April 3, 2010 and was attended by senior officials from MRRD, WatSIP
Department, and Provincial Rural Development Departments from 8 project provinces,
representatives of CDCs and Support Organization and UNICEF. The workshop
discussions are summarized below.

Participants:
    Engineers from 7 provinces (Kabul, Badghis, Samangan, Baghlan, Kunduz,
       Saripul, Jawzjan) out of 8 project provinces
    Support Organizations: NCA (Jazzman) and CRA (Taka)
    CDC : Kalakan and Ferza Districts of Kabul Province

Relevance of the project Approach
  The project remained most relevant and successful in addressing the needs of water
     and sanitation in provinces. The project helped build the capacities of CDCs,
     PRRDs and DDAs over the last 4 years and future projects can be taken up using
     similar institutional model. However, worsening security situation in the country
     may have negative impact on scaling up of the programme in future.

Project Planning
   Project Planning was done and centralized at National level. Province level
     Planning will reflect local situation and will enhance ownership of the project at the
     lower level.

Community Participation and Inclusion
  Inclusion issues need to be reviewed more closely as the Support Organizations
    chose to work around province headquarters and did not prefer to go to remote
    villages. Small hamlets with 4-5 families could not be covered as these did not fit
    with the norm of 1 water point for 25 families and were found excluded.
  Communities were either not informed or had less information on the project. They
    need to be adequately informed on the project and the processes to be followed.

Project Design and Implementation Issues
   Project implementation schedule of 18 months is sufficient provided procurement
     and financial delays are avoided at the National level.
   On technical norms, more flexibility in technical options should be given. Bore
     wells were largely promoted but priority should be given to piped water schemes
     where feasible.
   Lack of geophysical investigations and instruments resulted in trial and error
     method for locating bore wells. This method is time consuming time and effort
     intensive. In some cases, it has resulted in failure of bore wells. Some of the


                                            30
     available geophysical instruments were suitable for boring up to a depth of 200m
     while in some provinces bore wells were feasible at a depth of 300m.
     There is a need for Field Test Kits for monitoring water quality with sufficient
     supply of chemical reagents. Such field test kits would be useful in selecting the
     safe sources and also to ensure compliance to environmental safeguard of checking
     water quality to confirm safety of a source.
     Several donors and NGOs offer incentives for latrines and in some cases up to
     100% of the cost of the latrines. The approach has raised expectations of
     communities for higher incentives. The participants also raised the issue that
     incentive provided in the project ($80) for latrines needs to be enhanced to cover
     the cost of superstructure also as many families could not complete the toilet (due
     to poor economic conditions).
     Hygiene message on using soap has to be changed to provide alternative as many
     poorer families can't afford to buy soap. Hygiene promoters deployed were less and
     has its effect on their reach and intensity. Hygiene promoters should be hired from
     communities.

Sustainability
   Appointment of caretakers has helped CDCs to monitor the operations of water
     points continuously and undertake repairs. The CDCs require some funding support
     for repairs of water points.
   PRRDs are better placed to provide support for Operation and Maintenance
     provided they are strengthened with adequate staff and resources (mobility and
     office equipment etc)

Institutional Arrangements
   Overall, the country is facing shortage of qualified engineers and even if they are
      available, they are not willing to work on low salaries of $200-300 (they expect
      approximately $1500 which are offered by donors).
   PRRDs claim to do the job in 3 months which SO took 9 months to do it. PRRDs
      also can do the work cheaper than SOs.
   There has to be capacity building programs for PRRDs. PRRDs considered that the
      National Management should have been strengthened with subject experts.
   SOs­­they engaged a few staff who was given multiple responsibilities (BRAC in
      Kabul province). SOs working on several programs in the provinces share their
      staff on these programs. This has impacted the degree of responses and facilitation
      carried out in the ARTF Watsan programme.

Procurement
    Contractors quoted high prices for remote locations which were not considered in
     the project estimates. Estimates need to be prepared based on local conditions.
    Estimates were not updated prior to inviting bids. In Jawzjan province, estimates of
     2007 (but were not revised later) used to invite tenders in 2009, to which no one
     responded and finally, PRRD's engineers had to execute the work.
    Local contractors should be engaged for cost effective and timely execution of
     projects. The policy of engaging contractors from National level has not yielded

                                           31
      good results as these contractors were not familiar with local situation and in some
      cases, did not have the required technical staff (in one case, doctors were
      recruited?)
      Contractors who had no equipment or experience were engaged and they
      subcontracted the works to others. Qualification of contractors should be checked
      prior to their engagement on the project.
      Community Contracting through CDCs has been a successful. However, CDCs
      require technical support in some cases which could be provided by PRRDs. Such
      contracting has also increased ownership among communities who have done the
      works at lesser costs compared to implementing it through the contractors.
      (Example quoted was Af 3.0 million worth of works implemented in Af 2.2 million
      through CDCs)
      PRRDs could have been given some responsibilities of procurement which could
      avoid delays. Even, procurement by third party could have been a good option.
      There have been enormous delays in the payments of contractors, CDCs and even
      salaries of the project staff. The reasons cited were non-availability of funds in the
      Bank. More staff in MRRD to handle processes, procurement model on the lines of
      NSP to be adopted and sufficient funds to be made available in bank accounts on
      time.

Monitoring
   CDCs role in monitoring to be further strengthened
   Closer monitoring of construction activities needed as estimated quantities and
      actual quantities varied in some cases.
   PRRDs need mobility support for effective and regular monitoring of the
      programme.

Performance of Bank
    Procurement procedures were found to be long and complicated and there is a
      need to simplify them.
    Timely replenishment of the funds would help avoid delays in disbursements.




                                            32
       Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction

The rural population covers approximately 85% of the population while most of the
investments in Afghanistan are made in the cities and towns. The lopsided development
will attract more people from the rural areas to go to the towns that are already
developing and not having enough jobs to support the growth of the cities and the country.
Therefore, the investment in the rural sector is important to make the living more
comfortable through the provision of basic services of which water is initially the most
important factor for creating comfort especially for women and children. The WASH
sector effects on the livelihood of the rural population and should be linked with inputs
from other programs and projects.

The ARTF project was developed to build capacity through the experience of the
execution of project in selected provinces through various approaches. The collecting of
the assessments was done through NGOs initially but other approaches and options were
tried out later. The project gave an insight of the possibilities for a government body to
work with various approaches and find a best working option that would fit the
circumstances.

The objectives of the project were to improve the health of the rural communities and this
would be achieved through integration of hygiene education and provision of sustainable
water supply and sanitation services. An additional objective was to strengthen and build
the capacity of the government and others in the WASH sector.

RuWatSIP is a department within MRRD and follows the administrative procedure as
laid out developed and based on the Government of Afghanistan laws. The project was
part and parcel of the systems set-up within MRRD and depending on payment on the
Ministry of Finance accepted procedures.

Project Performance

The initial approach through the NGOs was based on previous projects as done in MRRD
but as the Government of Afghanistan became more mature and developed laws, the
MRRD had to adjust the previous approaches to conform to the laws of Afghanistan. The
initial project approach could not work effectively and another approach through the use
of the provinces and the communities was developed that fulfilled the requirements of the
RuWatSIP department and was in line with the developed laws.

The beneficiaries of the project were the rural disadvantaged population and were
supported through construction of infrastructure and dissemination of hygiene messages
to improve the health situation. The effects of the projects would be on shorter distances
to collect water for the women and children who normally are responsible for collecting

                                           33
water and the positive health effect through less diarrheal episodes and therefore the
family spends less cash on health provision and less time in taking care of sick persons.

The program had positive results as shown in table 1.

Table 1: Progress of the ARTF RuWatSIP Project
Performance                  Target          Revised             Achieved         Progress
Indicators                                    Target
Pipe Schemes                            15           10                   10            100%
Water Points                    770 + 420         1,190                1,190            100%
Demonstration                 2757 + 1260         4,017                4,017            100%
Latrines
Hygiene Education          31,777 + 11,305       43,082               59,384            138%
Caretakers trained              856 + 420         1,276                1,285            100%

Factors affecting implementation

The factors affecting the implementation were contracting capacity, sector capacity,
project specific restrictions based on procurement and tendering, provincial and capacity
on Kabul level, senior staff contracts, partners and private sector, and community
capacity.
    a. Contracting capacity for contractors in the rural sector proved to be weak for the
        small contractors that can work in remote areas. The contractors that accept such
        works are having limited resources, few spares for their machines and the quality
        can suffer if not supervised on a daily basis.
    b. Sector capacity was underestimated and former project approaches could not
        function because of changes in contracting systems that did not allow short cuts as
        made previously. The NGOs were used to larger and more concentrated contracts
        then the project could provide.
    c. Project specific restrictions were based on changes in procurement, tendering
        procedures and administrative restrictions.
    d. Capacity on Kabul and province level was not developed in a concerted and
        focussed approach and therefore the staff was left to learn on the job.
    e. The recruiting of the senior staff delayed the project by almost a year and after the
        first manager left, and the second accepted manager took also a long time to
        identify.
    f. The partners that were initially approached had other expectations that the project
        could not fulfil, but the project could not change as the NGO law, other laws and
        administrative approaches from the donor restricted a flexible approach. The
        contractors interested in small rural contracts are having capacity restrictions in
        equipment, capital and all-round experience.
    g. Community ­ the community capacity has been build up through the NSP
        program and has accepted approaches and support from the community members.
        The approach through the Community Development Councils (CDCs) proved to
        be a viable and reliable approach whereby also the future use of CDCs could
        accelerate WASH coverage through the Government of Afghanistan systems as
        well as the sustainability of the services.

                                            34
Lessons Learned

A large number of lessons were learnt during the project implementation and a number
are mentioned and highlighted. The following lessons stood out: a) Use of CDCs should
be further enhanced and provincial offices have an important role to play, b) WatSan
projects must have hygiene education as the main activity that support the hardware, c)
geo-physical investigations are required to find safe water and for effective investment,
d) selection of contractors should be based on field and administrative capabilities, e)
Project should cover whole districts, f) Operation and Maintenance system must be
supported country wide, g) Scaling up process should be pioneered together with loans
providers and improved income generating activities, h) Other technical lessons learned
must be applied and knowledge preserved through a knowledge system that can be
accessed widely.

The project performance was dependent on the managers running the project and their
experience in administrative matters, project experience and as well based on in-country
experience, therefore selection and induction requires attention. The manager selection
should depend on administrative experience, project experience, sector experience and
country experience.

Recommendations

The new ARTF project should be starting as soon as feasible not to lose momentum and
loose the experienced personnel. The project should enable the RuWatSIP, through
appropriate capacity building, to take a more leading role in the planning and investment
on a sector-wide approach which will culminate in investment in those areas that have
been left behind in development and safe guarding the investments that have been made
in the rural WASH sector.

The follow up project will have to ensure that a good functioning Management
Information System will be put into place to support the MRRD in planning, controlling
and monitoring activities of all sector partners. The emphasis should be on learning and a
positive approach through capacity building and discussions of the findings of the
monitoring activities. The sector should move from coordination to cooperation and
supporting each other's activities.

The project planning should be done carefully and with full participation from all the
organizations to be involved so that procedures required to execute the project and the
details of the planning are well known to all staff involved. The decision making and
getting of permission to work according to the plans should be well laid out to minimise
confusion and build on trust.

The provincial offices have to be enabled to play a greater role, but require capacity
building and need to be empowered; they have to play a strong role in supporting the
community to maintain a systematic O&M process for the services.



                                           35
Conclusion

The rural water sector has been project driven and WASH policy of 2004 gave direction,
but the overall sector planning is lacking, therefore the sector requires institutional
strengthening and capacity development that requires the MRRD through RuWatSIP to
do overall planning, management and monitoring in the sector. The ARTF project was a
starting point and from the lessons learned RuWatSIP can partner with the other sector
active stakeholders to develop a national program based on a sector wide approach and
having links with other ministries like Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of Energy and
Water and the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation.




                                           36
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


                              N/A




                               37
                     Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund Grant Agreement, December 15, 2005
Project Appraisal Document­ Original Grant Project ($5 Million)
Project Appraisal Document­­Additional Financing ($2.65 Million)
Project Completion Report­­MRRD
Supervision Mission Reports (Aide Memoires, Implementation Status Reports)
List of documents submitted by MRRD for Implementation Completion report (ICR) and
results for Watsan ARTF (TF: 055447)
Procurement Plans
Sector Assessment Study Report




                                        38
MAP
