Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6913-BU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 15, 1988
South Central and'Indian Ocean Department
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfornance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwse be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



(i)
CURICY  QUIVALENT
Currency Unit                      Burundi Franc (FBU)
US$ 1.00 (December 1987) m         FBU 122
BU 100*                            US$ 0.81967
US$ 1.00                           SDR 0.727913
FnU 100                   -        SDR 0.59665
DTS 1.00                           US$ 1.37379
14EA5S1RES
Metric System
GOVERNMEN? OF BURUNDI FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 5 - June 30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Burundi from April 7 to 21, 1987, and consisted of Messrs. J.C.
Laederach (Architect, Mission Leader), J.C. Lair (Educator) and B. Millot
(Economist).



(ii)                    FoR omcU3L US ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I#  INTRODUCTION .                                                  1
II. TEE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.  Overview: Organization, Administration
and Management of the Education Sector       .................  2
B.  The Education Reform Program       ...........................  2
C. Education and Training Issues        ..........................  3
1. Access and Equity ..'...............................  3
2. Financial Constraints and Budgetary
Realignment  .............................. ............ ........  4
3. Quality of Zducation ................................  6
4. Educational Planning and Management .................  7
D. 1xperience with Past Lending ........... ................  8
E.  The Government's Sectoral Adjustment Strategy
and Policy Dialogue with the Bank Group      ..............  8
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives and Description ..................... 10
1. Objectives ............................................. 10
2. Sectoral Adjustment Program ......................... 10
3. Strengthening of MEN's Planning, Budgeting
and Cost-control Capacity       ......................... 12
4. Improvement of the Quality and Efficiency of
Primary and General Secondary Education ........... 13
5. Improvement of Access to Cducation for
Rural Children ........... .                         15
This documont has a tstcte distbutio and may be ue by ecipients only in tho performancoe
of their offlcia dutiesL Its contents may not othetvise be disebsed without World Bankt authoriation.



(iii)
B.  Project Cost and Financing Plan ........................ 18
C.  Project Implementation ................................. 19
1. Project Preparation and Management         .................. 19
2. Procurement t..........e*        ...... ..***....  21
3. Disbursements ...................**4..*oe.* *...,. 22
4. Special Account .....                             ...  .. 23
5. Monitoring and Evaluation *        .......................... 23
6. Auditing ..........                                      * 23
IV.  PROJECT BBNEFITS AND RISKS .............*****...*....*..*.. 24
V.   AGREMENTS REACED AND U CO)IENDATIONS ...............               25
ANNEXES (see next page)



(iv)
LIST OF ANNEXESILISTE DES ANNEXES
Page No.
CHAPTER I
ANNEX 1.1 - Basic Data Sheet/Donnees de Base                  27-29
ANNEX 1.2 - Comparative Education Indicators/
Indicateurs Comparatife de l'Education           30-31
CHAPTER. II
ANNEX 2.1 - Organigram of the Ministry of Education/          32
Organigramme du Ninist&re de l'Education
ANNEX 2.2 - Detailed Structure of the Education               33-34
System/Structure detaillee du Systbme
Educatif
ANNEX 2.3 - Statistics on Student Enrollments and             35-50
on Staffing, Cost and Financing of the
Education System/Statistiques sur lee
Etudiants, le personnel, les cofts et le
Financement du Systame d'Education
ANNEX 2.4 - Main Topics of the Education Reform/              51-52
Principaux points de la reforme dans
le secteur de l'education
ANNEX 2.5 - Financial Implications of Alternative             53-61
Scenarios in the Education System/
Implications financiares de scenarios
alternatifs dans le Secteur de l'Education
CHAPTER III
ANNEX 3.1 - Monitoring Table of Policy Measures/              62-64
Tableau de Pilotage des Mesures & prendre
ANNEX 3.2 - Targeted Indicators/Indicateurs de                65
Performance
ANNEX 3.3 - Preliminary Draft of the Public                   66-68
Expenditure Program (PEP) of the
Education Sector, 1988-90
Prelmintary Draft of the Public
Investment Program (PIP), 1987-90



(v)
Page No.
ANNEX 3.4 - Education and Administration                    69-75
Planning Component/
Composante Planification de
l'Education et Administration
ANNEX 3.5 - Quality Improvement of Primary                  76-85
Education Component/Composante
Amdlioration de la Qualite de
1'Enseignement Primaire
ANNEX 3.6 - Quality Improvement of General                  86-93
Secondary Educationl
Am4lioration Qualitative
de l'Enseignement Secondaire
General
ANNEX 3.7 - List of Textbooks to be Printed                 94-96
During Project Implementation/
Liste des livres a imprimer
pendant la durde du projet
ANNEX 3.8 - Organigram of PBE/Organigrame                   97
du Bureau des Projets
d'Education
ANNEX 3.9 - Construction Strategies for                     98-101
Primary and Secondary Schools/
Strategies de construction pour
6coles primaires et secondaires
ANNEX 3.10- Project Costs by Source of                     102-110
Financing/Category
CoOts du Projet par Source
de Financement/Categorie
ANNEX 3.11- Sumasry of Foreign and Local                   111
Specialist Services/RUsume des
Services des specialistes
etrangers et locaux
ANNEY 3.12- Summary of Overseas and Local Training/        112
Resume de la formation A ldtranger
et sur place
ANNEX 3.13- Quarterly Disbursement Schedule/               113
Calendrier trimestriel des deboursements
ANNEX 3.14- List of Related Documents and Data             114-115
Available in Project File/Liste des
Documents et des donnees classes dans
le dossier du Projet
MAP IBRD No. 20662



(vi)
GLOSSAPYIGLOSSAIRE
BEST       -     Technical Education Bureau/Bureau d'Etudes de
l'Enseignement Tecbnique
BEPES      -     Secondary Education Bureau/Bureau d'Etudes des  Programves
de l'Enseignement Secondaire
BER        -     Rural Primary Education Bureau/Bureau d'Education Rurale
BPE        -     Education Projects Unit/Bureau des Projets Education
CCAP       -     Coordinating Counittee for Education Activities/Comit4 de
Coordination des Activit6s P4dagogiques
DPE        -     Directorate of Educational Planning/Direction de la
Planification de l'Education
EFI        -     Primary Teacher Training Colleges/Ecoles de Formation
d'Instituteure
MEN        -    Ministry of Education/Ministbre de l'Education Nationale
PAM        -    World Food Program/Programme Alimentaire Mondiale
PEP        -     Public Expenditure Program
PIP        -     Public Investment Program
RPP        -     Regie des Productions Pddagogiques
DCS        -     School Construction Unit/Departement des %ounstructions
Scolaires
UPE        -     Universal Primary Education



(vii)
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
Education Sector Develoont Project
Credit and Iroiect Su=ari
Borrower:    Republic of Burundi
Beneficiarts Ministry of Education
Credit Amountt         SDR 23.0 million (US$31.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
ProJect Descriptions   The overall objective of the project is to
accelerate access to basic education and the
qualitative development of primary and general
secondary education while maintaining the share of
the sector within the Government's recurrent budget
at a level approximating 20X. To this end, the
project would: (a) implement phased sectoral
adjustment measures to contain education costs; (b)
strengthen the planning, budgeting and cost-control
capacity of the Ministry of Education (MOE); (c)
improve the quality and efficiency of education at
the primary and general secondary levels through the
training of supervisors, upgrading of teacher
skills, prepuration of new programs for secondary
education, and provision of textbooks and teacher
guides; and (d) improve access to education for
rural children, by providing additional student
places in rural primary and secondary institutions.
Risks:                 Based on past experience with education projects in
Burundi, the risks are expected to be minimal.
However, due to the sectoral nature of the project,
there are three possible risks in implementing the
project. First, policy measures such as the
containment of the growth of secondary and higher
education and the setting up of a cost-recovery
system, based on parents' contributions to tuition
and boarding costs, may not be fully endorsed by the
country's population; aware of this possibility, the
Government intends to embark upon a public



(viii)
acceptance campaign. Second, there is a risk that
the Government may be unable to resist demands from
upper secondary and higher education students and
their families to maintain a disproportionately high
allocation for fellowships, thus jeopardizing the
financing of primary educational development;
however, experience through 1984 in reducing the
number of fellowships and establishing a student
loan scheme at university level indicates that the
Government can succeed in resisting these pressures.
Finally, a third risk concerns the possible decrease
in educational quality resulting from the
generalization of the double-shift system and the
icnrease in teacher/student ratios. To reduce this
potential risk, the project would provide for the
permanent monitoring of teachers by inspectors,
improved school administration through the training
of headmasters and teachers, and increased
production and distribution of textbooks.



(ix)
estimated Cost8s                          Local      Foreign       Total
-------US$ million----------
Project Component
A.  Educational Planning            0.4         1.3           1.7
B.  Quality Improvement             3.3         4.6          7.9
C.  Access Improvement              5.0       16.1          21.1
D.  Proiect Administration          0.4         0.5           0.9
E.  Scholarships (1988)                         1.5          1.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS                          9.1        24.0          33.1
Total Contingencies                 2.0        2.4           4.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS  1/                  11.1        26.4          37.5
Financing Plan
IDA                                 6.3       25.2          31.5
UNICEF                              0.3         0.7          1.0
UNDP                                -           0.5          0.5
Government 11                       4.5                      4.5
TOTAL                              11.1       26.4          37.5
1/    Including taxes and duties estimated at US$0.8 million.
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
-----------------…US$ Mlillion------------------
1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994
Annual              3.5      5.0       6.0       6.0      6.0       5.0
Cumulative          3.5      8.5      14.5      20.5     26.5      31.5



REPUBLIC OF BUUUDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEmVLOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1973, to adapt education to the local environment and make it
more responsive to the country's needs, the Government of Burundi initiated
a reform of the education system. Between 1977 and 1983, IDA assisted the
Government in implementing the most critical phases of the reform and
provided financing for the construction of rural primary schools, the
preparation of new programs and relevant curricula, the improvemert of
primary education and the development of technical education. However,
during this period primary student enrollments grew at a slower rate than
anticipated, and the quality of education stagnated at a mediocre level.
Hence, in 1982 the Government decided to intensify implementation of the
reform through the adoption of sectoral adjustment measures; these include
introducing a double-shift system at the primary level, adopting new teacher
training programs, decentralizing primary school construction and
maintenance, and reorganizing student access to boarding facilities. The
Government has also made a commitment to attain Universal Primary Education
(UPE) by the year 1995196. Even though this goal appears ambitious and will
probably have to be phased down, the Government is strongly committed to
substantially increasing enrollments within the limits of its current
b-adget, without affecting the quality of education. Annex 1.1 provides the
Burundi's Basic Data Sheat, and the Comparative Education Indicators are
shown in Annex 1.2.
1.02      In 1986, the Government requested IDA's assistance in financing a
project to improve the quality of education and to increase errollments of
rural children at the primary and lower secondary levels. Within the
framework of the Government's sectoral adjustment measures, which are to be
redefined and strengthened to improve allocative efficiency and the cost-
effective use of education resources, the project would strengthen the
institutions responsible for educational quality, resource management, and
school construction and maintenance. The estimated project cost is US$37.5
million equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component represents 702
of the total project cost. The project would be exempt from taxes and
duties. The Government would contribute about US$4.3 million. The remaining
US$33.2 million would be financed by IDA (US$31.5 million), UNDP (US$0.6
million), and UNICEF (US$1.0 million). The project would also rely heavily
upon an important core of technical assistants, financed on a grant basis by
Belgium and France.



- 2 -
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Overviewt Organization, Administration and Management of the Education
Sector
2.01      Burundi's formal educationA system consists of six years of
primary, four years of junior secondary, three to four years of senior
secondary, and two to five years of higher education. Primary teacher
training is provided in secondary-level Teacher Training Institutes (Ecoles
de Formation d'Instituteurs - EIls) through a six-year program (two years
after junior secondary education) prepared with IDA assistance under the
Third Education Project (Cr. 1358-BU). Lower secondary teachers are trained
at the Pedagogical Institute of Bujumbura in a two-year program following
senior secondary education. Technical, agricul.ural and medicallsanitary
education is also provided, mainly through formal programs. The University
of Burundi offers the major subjects for the training of higher level staff.
Five departments of the Ministry of Education (Ministere de l'Education
Nationale - MEN), staffed with competent specialists, are responsible for
'che organization, monitoring and management of the education system. The
first of these is the Directorate of Educational Planning (Direction de la
Planification de l'Education - DPE), which is responsible for preparing
reform development plans based on reliable statistics and data; with IDA
assistance, DPE has already prepared a school implementation map aiming at
reducing inequalities in access to education, and is also developing and
evaluating alternatives approaches towards adopting a realistic plan for
attaining UPE over a period compatible with the country's financial and
technical potentialities. Three autonomous bureaus are responsible for the
development of new curricula anl teaching methods, teacher training and
monitoring the development and production of textbooks and teacher' guides,
and the upgrading of inspectors and teachers: the Rural Primary Education
Bureau (Bureau d'Education Rurale - BER), the Secondary Education Bureau
(Bureau d'Etudes des Programmes de l'Enseignement Secondaire - BEPES), and
the Technical Education Bureau (Bureau d'Etudes de l'Enseignement Technique
- BEET). They are experimenting with and distributing pedagogical materials
to assist teachers in coping with the rapid development of the system. A
printshop, financed under the Third Education Project and supported by
French technical assistance, produce student textbooks and teacher guides of
good quality. The Education Projects Unit (Bureau des Projets Education -
BPE), which efficiently monitors implementation of IDA and AfDB financed
projects, Is well equipped to develop and monitor school construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance programs. An organigram of the Ministry of
Education is at Annex 2.1. A detailed presentation of the structure of the
education system is provided in Annex 2.2. Annex 2.3 provides statistical
data on student enrollments and on staffing, cost and financing of the
education system.
B. The Education Reform Program
2.02      In 1973, the Government adopted the principle of a reform program
to improve the quality and cost-efficiency of education. The main thrust
was to make the education system more responsive to the country's medium-
term development needs. Among those needs, priority had to be given to



- 3 -
agricultural production development, at both the industrial and smallholder
farm levels. Therefore, it was considered necessary not only to train
qualified technicians, including agricultural extension specialists, at the
secondary level in order to increase agricultural industrial production, but
also to extend basic education to enable smallholders, who comprise the
majority of farmers, to be more active in seeking extension services and
make better use of them, thereby increasing the productivity of subsistence
farming. To increase the responsiveness of the system, the education reform
program emphasizes the following features: (a) a rapid increase in basic
education enrollments, in order to attain UPE by the year 1995/96; (b) the
use of Kirundi as a language of instruction to ease the entry of rural
students into the schooling process, with the French language progressively
introduced from Grade 3 upwards, in order to leave an element for
preparation of secondary education; (c) adaptation of education to the local
environment through the development of new programs and curricula
emphasizing the teaching of mathematics, environmental sciences, and
agricultural and industrial practical work at the primary and secondary
levels; (d) improvement of the efficiency of technical education through
production-oriented training directly related to future employment
opportunities; and (e) consolidation of all major post-secondary education
institutions ir one university, where students would be admitted on the
basis of an ori. ntation process taking labor market needs into
consideration. A detailed description of the education reform is set out in
Annex 2.4.
2.03      Current status of reform implementation.  'While praiseworthy
initiatives were undertaken between 1973 and 1983 in program and curricula
preparation, textbook distribution, and teacher training, the results
remained far below expectations. Access to basic education reached a
maximum of only 50? by 1985/86, enrollments and the cost of secondary and
higher education soared, and the quality of education declined. The
underlying cause of these difficulties is seen to be urban social pressure
in favor of secondary and higher education, which led the Government and
major external donors--mainly France, Belgium and EEC--to finance upper
levels of education without controlling their costs.  In light of this
situation and in order to cope with the issues facing the sector and
described below, the Government has intensifed its dialogue with IDA witk a
view to preparing sectoral adjustment measures to be undertaken during
project implementation. These measures are described in paras 3.02 and
3.03.
C. Education and Training Issues
1. Access and Equity
2.04      Burundi's gross enrollment ratio is still low compared with the
average for other sub-Saharan countries: in 1985186, 52? of the primary
school age population were enrolled at the primary level (compared with 75?
for sub-Saharan Africa in 1983), and 4? of the school age children were
enrolled at 'he secondary level (compared with 24? in sub-Saharan Africa in
1983). In addition, access to education is not evenly distributed. First,
there are wide discrepancies between urban (mainly Bujumbura and Gitega) and
remote rural areas. For example, 83? of the school age children are
enrolled in primary education in the Bujumbura province, whereas only 39?
attend primary schools in the province of Butana. Second, although less



- 4 -
visible than in other countries of the region, an imbalance between male and
female school attendance still remains. In 1985/86, nationally, 432 of
school age girls were enrolled in primary education, while 612 of boys
attended primary education. This imbalance is even more perceptible in
rural areas: 352 of school age girls enrolled in primary education in the
provinces of Bubanza, Kirundo, Ngozi.
2.05      The slow enrollment increases stem mainly from the socio-
geographic nature of the country. Nearly 95? of Burundi's population is
rural, living on scattered homesteads on hilltops, and the country is now
the second most densely populated in sub-Saharan Africa, with an average
density of 180 inhabitants per sq.km (in 1987). This situation affects the
delivery of social services, and is particularly a handicap in access to
education in terms of equity and cost. A large number of small primary
schools have to be dispersed all over the country, yet access remains
difficult for many children who walk long distances to reach their school.
The situation is even worse at the secondary level, where fewer institutions
exist. For this reason, secondary education facilities are concentrated in
urban areas (50? of the 37 secondary institutions are in three major cities,
Bujumbura, Gitega and Bururi, where only 5Z of the population live) and in
the most densely populated regions. Moreover, any opening of a secondary
school in a rural area is costly because regrouping students from scattered
homesteads generates a need for boarding facilities, thus increasing capital
and recurrent expenditures.
2. Financial Constraints and Budgetary Realignment
Cost/Efficiency Issues
2.05      The relatively large share of the public recurrent budget
allocated to the education sector (20X) is not spent in a way that enables
HEN to achieve the objectives set by the reform. Inefficiencies remain at
all levels of the education system, immobilizing resources that could be
better used in alternative activities, and resulting in high per student
(and per graduate) costss while due to an almost generalized double-shift
system unit costs at the primary level are rather low by African standards
(US$35, or 15? of GNP per capita), unit costs of secondary education exceed
sub-Saharan Africa averages (US$400 for general secondary and US$700 for
technical secondary education). Likewise, unit costs in higher education
exceed US$2,000, or 63 times the unit costs at primary level--a situation
only partially attributable to the small size of the University of Burundi
(2,500 students). Three sets of factors, described below, account for this
cost patterns
(a) Low internal efficiency: (i) at the primary level, repetition
rates range from 13.2? in grade 1, to 29.3? in Grade 6 (1984/85),
and about 10,000 pupils drop out annually in the first three
years; and (ii) at the tniversity, high repetition rates in the
first two years create costly bottlenecks (it takes 5.7 years to
get a two-year program degree in sciences and repetition rates in
first year reach 43Z).
(b) Sub-optimal use of bota teaching and non-teaching staff:
(i) despite generalization of the double-shift system at the
primary level, several hundred teachers in urban areas are not
practicing the double shift, for reasons involving personal



convenience; in addition, the high proportion of substitute
teachers (10.62), together with the high proportion of non-
teaching headmasters (four for 10 schools), also hampers full
utilization of available staff5 (ii) in secondary education, the
low teacher/student ratios (1:21 in secondary general and l:l in
secondary technical) are not justifiable on educational grounds,
nor are the low teaching loads (currently 16 hours per week) in
both the first and second cycle of general and technical
education; likewise, the high proportion of administrative staff
has no educational rationale; and ($ii) at the university level,
the high teacher/student ratios (1:18) is mainly due to a high
degree of specialization, compounded by the small number of
students. This high ratio results from too large a proportion of
non-teaching versus teaching staff (currently almost at parity);
low teacher loads (200 hours per year on average), which also are
partly attributable to the small size of departments and to over-
specialization; and high pay scales for the teaching staff
relative to those of other high-level civil servants.
(c)  The burden of prov_.ding non-academic services to students; (i) the
Government is engaged in boarding activities, which consume up to
292 of budgetary expenditures devoted to secondary education.
Indeed, the extremely scattered population pattern prevailing in
Burundi makes it inevitable for the vast majority of rural
students to resort to boarding facilities; also, boarding offers a
work atmosphere seldom found in rural households. Nevertheless,
there are cases where equity considerations do not justify the
provision of boarding (e.g., for urban students enrolled in a
school in their own city); and (ii) the Ministry of Education
provides the food and lodging at highly subsidized prices to
nearly all students at higher education institutions, an activity
which absorbs 222 of the recurrent budget of that subsector.
Financing Issues
2.07      Because of the high unit costs of secondary and higher education,
a large portion (52t) of the Ministry's total ordinary budget is allocated
to those levels, which together enroll less than 102 of the primary
education enrollment. Another reason for this skewed distribution of
resources is the high level of public subsidies for teaching and especially
non-teaching activities, with only a marginal reliance on user fees at upper
levels compared with a substantial participation of parents at lower levels:
(a) In primary education, parents' fees (US$1.7 per child) are the
main source of financing for textbooks and other teaching
materials. Likewise, comunities' contributions (in cash, in kind
and in labor) comprise the main national form of financing for
school construction, since no funds are available for this purpose
in the Government's budget and since the communes can barely
afford to provide even basic maintenance of school buildings.
(b) At the secondary level, through school fees (the 'minerval'),
parents contribute 11? of the total budgetary cost of secondary
education. Although school principals directly manage two-thirds
of the proceeds of the IminervalV (i.e., US$8 for day-time



- 6 -
students and US$37 for boarders), once boarding expenditures have
been paid very little remains for teaching materials, especially
in the technical schools. Inasmuch exter.nal funding is unlikely
to be diverted from technical assistance (it mainly supports the
pedagogical bureaus) or from student meals (World Food Program/
Programme d'Alimentation Mondiale-PAM), there is a financial gap
which could be filled only through a larger contribution from the
users of boarding facilities.
(c) Until 1987, higher education students in Burundi did not pay
tuition; instead, they all received a loan. In Fall 1987, loans
were changed into scholarships and the budget for scholarships
doubled between 1987 and 1988 (para. 3.03). The compulsory use of
highly subsidized university restaurants is not based on
efficiency nor on equity grounds. Furthermore, the high rate of
scholarships offered to a growing number of students enrolled in
post-graduate programmes abroad has no justification. Thus,
students at the University of Burundi and those studying abroad,
contribute very little to the social services for which they are
eligible, and not at all to the teaching services, and they also
receive additional cash aid for living expenses not related to the
subsidized services. Besides its limited reliance on users fees,
higher education in Burundi is characterized by heavy dependence
upon external aid, which in 1985 contributed over 60Z of the total
cost (recurrent plus capital) of the subsector.
3. Quality of Education
2.08      So far, notable efforts have been made to maintain the qualit; of
education at an acceptable level. The introduction of Kirundi as a language
of instruction has been carefully planned, and BER, BEPES and BEET (para.
2.01) have embarked on the preparation of new curricula, textbooks and
teacher guides for teaching in both the Kirundi and French languages.
Although still insufficient in numbers, the teaching aids are being
distributed in increasing quantity and quality. Teacher quality has also
improved. Since 1984, all primary school teachers are trained through a
three-year program after Grade 10, and lower secondary teachers through a
two-year program at the post-secondary level. Moreover, after considering
repetition and dropout rates, the internal efficiency ratios oi -rimary,
lower secondary and senior secondary education have been evaluatea to be
792, 842 and 78Z, respectively. These ratios are high for the region and
testify to the acceptable quality of education, which is attributable to
several factorst high percentage of qualified or semi-qualified teachers at
the primary level (812 of the teaching staff have had some professionnal
training), the provision of teaching materials in quantities and quality
higher than the average for other countries in the region; and at the
secondary and post-secondary levels, a relatively large number of well-
trained expatriate teaching staff.
2.09      However, as encouraging as the above-described efforts and results
may be, they remain fragile and have not yet gained a sufficient momentum
and level of implementation to be considered irreversible. Moreover, under
the impact of rapid enrollment increases and implementation of new curricula
based on the use of a local language for which teachers are not yet trained,



-7-
the quality of education has begun declining. At the primary level, student
achievements are adversely affected by the double-shift system because it
reduces student instruction time by one third and increases the teacher
workload. Overloaded teachers have less time to monitor student progress,
and students encounter learning difficulties, as they need to be fluent in
two languages whereas most of the textbooks are available only in French.
Primary school teachers trained before 1983, the start of the new te cher
training program, represent about four-fifths of the current teaching force.
Since their professional training was not sufficient to enable them to teach
in two languages and within the double-shift syst-n, they need retraining.
At the secondary and higher education levels, a faster-than-expected
reduction of technical assistance has led to the need to recruit untrained
teachers, thus significantly reducing student achievement. There is urgent
need for measures to improve teacher qualifications, produce curricula and
teaching aids in the two languages of instruction and adapted to the double-
shift system, assist with innovative classroom techniques, and improve the
working er.vironment of teachers and students.
4. Educational Planning and Management
2.10      Management of the education system is highly centralized, with all
major and sometimes even routine decisions made in Bujumbura by the Minister
of Education and the heads of the various departments. There is also some
overlapping of responsibilities necessitating approval by two or three
directors before a decision can be taken. For example, a decision to
conduct a seminar for in-service teachers would involve the Director of
Primary Education to select the teachers to be trained, the Director of BER
to organize the seminar and conduct it, and the Director of BEPES to provide
EFI facilities and assist with EFI teachers. There is also a lack of
communication between the University of Burundi, which is responsible for
lower secondary teacher training, and BEPES and the Department of Secondary
Education, which are responsible for curriculum development and teacher
supervision. To alleviate these problems, the Government has decided to
decentralize the relevant aspects of educational planning and resource
management, and provide the 13 governors and 31 regional inspectors with
adequate authority for teacher support, as well as authority to handle
personnel problems.
2.11      There are also deficiencies in primary and secondary school
administration. These are mainly due to inadequate and irregular monitoring
by inspectors and to the lack of headmaster training. The current
inspectorate staff do not have the physical means to conduct school visits
and they lack up-to-date knowledge of innovative classroom techniques to
assist teachers, as well as authority to impose sanctions for unsatisfactory
teacher performance. All this has led to inadequate implementation of the
double-shift system, under-utilization of substitute teachers, an excessive
number of school principals carrying no teaching load, and imp.7tant
differences between rural and urban teachers (para 2.06), most of the former
teaching two shifts a day while some of the latter have a workload of only
four hours a day. Another consequence of this weak decentralized management
is the difficulty of compiling reliable data and statistics on education
that are essential in the preparation of well-planned development projects.
Although each of the 21 inspectorate staff includes a statistician/school
mapping specialist, they lack adequate training and cannot rely on the
headmasters, who are not trained to fill in questionnaires and answer
questions or to prepare requests related to educational management and
planning problems.



D. Experience with Past Lending
2.12      IDA has supported Burundi's education sector through three
education projects. The First Education Project (Cr. 679-BU, signed on
April 29, 1977, and closed on March 31, 1983) included assistance for the
quantitative and qualitative improvement of primary education through the
construction of primary schools, teacher training for teaching practical
subjects, preparation of new curricula, and production of teaching
materials. The Second Education Project (Cr. 976-BU, signed on April 23,
1980, and closed June 30, 1985) assisted the Government in expanding and/or
improving its technical education program, essentially to train skilled
workers and technicians in construction trades, public works, mechanics,
drawing, typing and bookkeeping. The Third Education Project (Cr. 1358-BU,
signed on June 9, 1983) includes assistance for expanding and improving
formal primary and non-formal education and training in rural areas,
expanding lower secondary education, improving primary teacher training, and
strengthening the BER department, which is responsible for curriculum
development and production of education materials. The First and Second
Education Projects have been completed on schedule and both can be
considered as successful, as attested by the First Project Completion Report
dated May 23, 1986. The Completion Report for the Second Education Project
is being finalized and concludes that all the appraisal objectives have been
achieved. Implementation of the Third Education Project is 12 months ahead
of schedule and the results obtained so far are outstanding.
E. The Government's Sectoral Adjustment Strategy and Policy Dialogue with
the Bank Group
2.13      As stated in para. 2.03, the Government recognizes that to achieve
the objectives of the education reform, sectoral adjustment measures related
to cost and financing, as well as improvement of educational techniques,
will have to be carefully planned and implemented. Over the past three
years the Bank Group, which has financed two projects that supported the
Government's priority of expanding primary schooling tnd improving the
quality of education (para 2.12), has assisted the Government in its effort
to define and prepare sectoral adjustment measures that could achieve the
planned objectives. Accordingly, the Government has initiated, or under the
proposed project intends to initiate measures tot (a) reduce recurrent unit
costs by extending the double-shift system to all levels of primary
education, reassigning to primary classrooms substitute teachers and under-
utilized teachers, increasing the teaching workload of secondary and higher
education teachers as well as raising teacherlstudent ratios in secondary
and higher education, and reducing the number of subjects taught at the
university level; (b) mobilize private resources through cost-recovery
systems such as student loans in higher education, increased parents'
contributions at the primary and lower secondary education levels, and cost-
sharing arrangements with local communities for primary school construction;
(c) set up a School Construction Unit (Ddpartement des Constructions
Scolaires - DCS) which would assist the Ministry of Education, the
communities and the secondary schools with the construction and maintenance
of educational facilities; and (d) strengthen the institutions responsible
for planning sectoral strategy and education expenditures.



-9-
2.14      The above sector adjustment measures complement the structural
adjustment program on which the Government is embarked with support from the
1986 Structural Adjustment Credits (IDA and African Facility), and in
particular its public expenditure programming aspects. Government now
prepares a three-year rolling public expenditure program, including all
recurrent expenditures by the public sector, as well as a three-year rolling
public investment program including a core program for priority projects.
These programs are reviewed annually with the Bank. The project will
reinforce the Government's expenditure and investment programming capacity
in the education sector. Given the sector's importance in public
expenditure, as well as for the medium-term management and financial
viability of the sector, separate three-year rolling public investment (PIP)
and expenditure (PEP) programs for the education sector will be prepared
annually; programs for 1988-1990 have been prepared by the Government for
review at negotiations (para. 3.03).
2.15      The 1987-1989 sector PEP, and the sector PIP which forms part of
it, have been reviewed with IDA; the present credit is intended to finance
the major part of the sector PIP, apart from certain items financed by other
donors. The PEP will in future years be largely governed by the sector
policy objectives agreed with the Association (para 3.02, Annex 3.1);
additional criteria for establishment of the PEP and for selection of
projects for inclusion in the PIP in the future have been discussed and
agreed at negotiations. It is expected that they will include the
following:
(i) consistency with national macro-economic objectives;
(ii) compliance with the Government's sector strategy, giving
priority to rapid increase in primary enrollment towards
universal primary enrollment, inprovement of quality of
education at all levels, and at secondary and higher levels
and in vocational/technical education taking account of the
needs of the country, emphasizing agriculture and production-
oriented training related to future employment possibilities
and labor market requirements;
(iii) project cost and social coverage, and cost relative to
international indicators of comparable facilities (for
example, cost per student at a comparable level);
(iv) recurrent cost implications of investments, and efficiency of
operation, relative to operation of existing facilities at
present or expanded levels, and to international indicators;
(v) availability of foreign financing on appropriate terms, both
for investment and recurrent expenditures; and
(vi) affordability of education for qualified, needy students at
different levels, taking into account the level of cost-
recovery necessary for the system to function, and the
adequacy of such systems as may exist to assist those in need.
2.16      As part of the policy dialogue, the Bank Group has tested the
impact of the measures planned by the Government and embodied in the
proposed project. Simulated resulti indicate that to counteract the



- 10 -
negative effect of Burundi's rapid population growth coupled with a drastic
increase in primary enrollment rates and also contain education
expenditures, a sectoral adjustment strategy that encompasses financial
measures is crucial to enable the Government to reallocate sector resources
in favor of primary education, as well as undertake efficiency measures to
lower unit costs. The financial implications of alternative scenarios in
the sector are set out in Annex 2.5.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives and Description
1. Objectives
3.01      The overall objective of the project is to accelerate access to
basic education and the qualitative development of primary and general
secondary education while maintaining the share of the sector within the
Government's recurrent budget at a level approximating 202. To this end,
the project woulds (a) implement phased sectoral adjustment measures to
contain education costs; (b) strengthen the planing, budgeting and cost-
control capacity of the Ministry of Education; (c) improve the quality and
efficiency of education at the primary and general secondary levels through
the training of supervisors, upgrading of teacher skills, preparation of new
programs for secondary education, and provision of student textbooks and
teacher guides: and (d) improve access to education for rural children by
providing additional student places in rural primary and secondary
institutions.
2. Sectoral Adjustment Program
3.02      To limit to the extent possible the additional costs that the
quantitative and qualitative development of education necessarily involves,
the project would strengthen the Government's capacity to prepare and update
the PEP and the PIP, and to implement the sectoral adjustment measures
already adopted but which are still at an early stage of implementation.
These measures, outlined below, would be undertaken during the six-year span
of the project and are expected to result in a reduction of per student unit
costs and the restructuring of the education budget.
(a) Measure No.l: Reduction of the cost per student of teaching and
administrative staff by:
(i) increasing teacher/student ratios from 1:63 to 1:70 per day at the
primary level, where the double-shift system is in effect in all
six grades, from 1:21 to 125 at the general secondary level; from
1:11 to 1:15 at the technical secondary level; and from 18 to
1:10 at the university level;
(ii) increasing the teaching workload from 16 to 21 hours per week for
lower secondary teachers, from 13 to 18 hours per week for higher
secondary teachers, and from 204 to 240 hours per year for higher
education teachers;



- 11 -
(iii) reducing the number of substitute teachers from 10.62 of the
primary teaching staff to 6?S and
(iv)  reducing administrative staff, including headmasters and under
utilized teachers, from 8? of the primary teaching staff to 5?,
from one for 65 secondary students to one for 85 secondary
students, and from 972 of the higher education teacher staff to
75?.
(b) Measure No.2s Reduction of subsidies in secondary and higher education
by:                             I
(i) reducing the number of boarding students from 862 of the total
secondary students to 71S, which is feasible according to more
efficient assignment of students to schools.; and
(ii)  starting October 1988, limiting the financing of scholarships
abroad to those financed by external donors. As an intermediate
measure the excessive number of scholarships granted by the
previous Government will be financed by the credit (para. 3.03
below).
(c) Measure No.3: Cost-recovery improvement by:
(i) increasing parents' contributions to the cost of education from
F8U 200 to FBU 400 for primary school students, and from FBU 6,000
to FBU 9,000 for boarding secondary school students;
(ii)  increasing meal charges for higher education students from FBU 100
to FBU 150; and
(iii)  cutting the budget of scholarship for studying abroad (and
attracting foreign aid for financing such scholarships once their
necessity has been evidenced) and limitation of local scholarships
to non-repeaters.
(d) Measure No.4: Increase in the enrollments of primary school-age
children by 731 over a five-year period (1988-92) by applying the above-
mentioned measures, and by:
(i)   limiting enrollment increases during the five years to 42?
for general secondary and 11? for technical secondary
education;
(ii)  maintaining the current enrollment of higher education
education; and
(iii) accelerating the flow of students through the system by
increasing the promotion rate at the primary level from 752
to 85? and by reducing the repetition rate in Grade 1 from
25? to 152.
3.03      The above-described sectoral adjustment measures are expected to
reduce per student unit costs by 162 at primary, 15? at general secondary,
18? at technical secondary, and 20? at higher education levels. Meanwhile,
the education budget would be restructured to allow the primary education
budget to be increased from 45? to 51?, and the secondary education budget
to be reduced from 302 to 28?, and the higher education budget from 22? to
20X. The Ministry of Education (MEN), in consultation with the Ministries
of Finances and Planning, would implement these measures. Implementation



- 12 -
would be monitored by the Government, in accordance with a Monitoring Table
(Tableau de Pilotage) already prepared by the Government and agreed with
IDA. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the targets
set out In the Monitoring Table will be closely monitored and IDA will be
kept informed annually on the objectives attained. The Monitoring Table is
at Annex 3.1. A sudden and unexpected increase of the higher education
scholarship budget during Fall 1987 has compromised the sectoral objectives
of the MEN, as well as the national budgetary balance in which the education
sector plays a substantial role. The now planned scholarships alone would
account for 102 of the MEN budget, which is unlikely to be financed unless
drastic reductions are decided in other sectors. Given the Government's
codmitment to cut drastically the scholarship program next academic year and
to assist in financing this inherited education budget, and as a means of
financing sectoral adjustment costs, an amount of US$1.5 million equivalent,
of the proposed credit would be used in 1988 only to finance scholarships.
3.04      Progress in implementing the sectoral adjustment measures would be
assessed through the results obtained in unit cost reductions and the
restructuring of the education budget. Since the results targeted to be
realized by about mid-term in the sectoral adjustment program are deemed
necessary to generate the savings required to provide the recurrent budget
for further expansion of primary school enrollments and for improvement of
education quality, a condition of disbursement for the second phase of the
school construction program (paras 3.18-3.20) would be the realization of
satisfactory progress in attaining the mid-term objectives of the sectoral
adjustment program (para. 3.03). These are: (a) reduction of per student
costs at the primary, general secondary, technical secondary, and higher
education levels by about 9.52, 72, 7.52 and 102, respectively; and (b) an
increase in the primary education budget from 452 to 502, and reduction of
the secondary education budget from 302 to 28Z and the higiter education
budget from 222 to 202. The targeted indicators are detailed i.n Annex 3.2.
3.  Strengthening of MEN's Planning, Budgeting and Cost-Control Capacity
3.05      Directorate of Educational Planning (DPE).  This Directorate,
currently responsible for educational statistics, school mapping, school
guidance, and preparation and implementation of educational development
plans, would be strengthened to implement and monitor the Government's
sectoral adjustment measures, and to prepare subsequent sectoral adjustment
and growth plans and cost-effectiveness measures. An immediate major
concern of DPE is the preparation of a Public Expenditures Program (PEP) for
the years 1989-1991 and the development and annual updating of a Public
Investment Plan (PIP) (para 2.14). Hence, the project would help DPE to:
(a) plan enrollment targets at each level of education, estimate budgetary
needs, and identify measures to generate necessary financing; (b) monitor
the Tableau de Pilotage (para 3.03); (c) establish a cost-control mechanism
and conduct annual reviews of education expenditures and budget (PIP and
PEP); (d) collect and analyze sector-wide demographic and budgetary
statistics and publish them annually; (e) update existing school mapping;
(f) for regional staff, inspectors and headmasters, conduct annual seminars
on collection of statistics, school mapping, and projection of real demand
for schooling; and (g) monitor the secondary school maintenance budget.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: (a) the already
agreed Public Investment Program will be established on a rolling basis and
each annual revision will be submitted to IDA for agreement; and (b) any
project not included in the education PIP and worth more than the equivalent
of US$500,000, regardless of the source of its financing, will be submitted
to and discussed with IDA before being agreed upon. The PEP and PIP



- 13 -
currently under discussion with the Government are shown in Annex 3.3, with
the final vers4ons to be adopted prior to Credit effectiveness (para. 5.05).
3.06      Strengthening and coordination of school administration.  To
familiarize the regional inspectors and primary and secondary school
headmasters with their administrative responsibilities and provide the
appropriate training support, annual seminars would be nrganized jointly by
DPE specialists and expatriate consultants. An effort would also be made to
establish special regional coordinating committees comprising inspectors,
local administrators from the Governorates and the Primary Teacher Training
Colleges (Ecoles de Formation d'Instituteurs - EFI), and regional
headmasters. These committees, whose members would be trained by DPE, would
be responsible for reorganizing in-service teacher training and for
monitoring of school administrative functions at the regional level. The
coordinating committees are further discussed in para 3.09. Finally, as
part of project implementation a school construction unit would be organized
by using che personnel currently working in the Education Projects Unit
(para 3.17).
3.07      The educational planning and administration component would be
financed jointly by UNDP and IDA on parallel financing arrangements. UNDP
would finance 30 man-months of foreign specialist services, including a
specialist in education financing and a consultant on administration, 41
man-months of fellowships, and office supplies and small equipment. The IDA
credit would finance three man-years of a computer specialist, furniture and
equipment for the development of decentralized educational planning offices,
equipment for DPE, and incremental costs for the organization of local
training seminars. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
an agreement between the Government and UNDP for the financing of the
educational planning and administration component had been signed. Annex
3.4 provides details on the objectives and implementation of this component.
4. Improvement of the Quality and Efficiency of Primary and General
Secondary Education
3.08     Enhancing teaching staff effectiveness and strengtheninp the role
of inspectors, teacher trainers, and headmasters in teacher support. To
improve the quality of education, about 5,000 primary and 1,600 general
secondary school teachers would be provided with in-service training to
upgrade their teaching skills and subject-matter knowledge. Also, 525 EFI
teacher trainers, 50 regional inspectors, and about 540 headmasters and/or
school principals would be given training to improve their ability to
provide teachers with pedagogical and administrative support.
3.09     At the primary level, each teacher would undergo upgrading through
an integrated program consisting of three levels of training: (a) on-the-job
training under the guidance of headmasters; (b) one-week seminars organized
at the inspectorate level under the supervision of inspectors and senior
educators from BER; and (c) a three-month upgrading course at one of the 21
EF1I, under the direction of EFI teachers and BER specialists. This in-
service primary teacher training program would be under the direction of
BER, whose specialists would prepare the seminar curricula and the teacher
guides to be used as pedagogical support for the training sessions, as well
as participate in all the seminars. The seminars would be held at the 21
EFIs during the annual school vacation periods. To ensure the coordinated
efforts of the various contributors (inspectors, EFI teachers, BER
specialists) to the training sessions, a Coordinating Committee for



- 14 -
Education Activities (Comit4 de Coordination des Activit4s Pedagogiques
-CCAP) would be established at the national level, with sub-committees
organized in each region (para 3.06). Under the chairmanship of the
Inspector General of Education, CCAP would regroup representatives from
secondary education, BER, BEPES, BEET and the Education Projects Unit.
Three CCAP permanent secretaries, seconded from existing positions, two from
BER and one from BEPES, assisted by an expatriate teacher training
specialist, would supervise the preparation, implementation and evaluat.in
of the in-service primary teacher training program and report to the CC.
Chairman. The decree creating and organizing CCAP has been issued.
3.10     UNICEF would finance part of the in-service primary teacher
training program under parallel financing arrangements. It is expected that
the UNICEF contribution of about US$1.0 million equivalent would cover the
cost of training seminars during the first two years of the project. The
IDA credit would finance: equipment for the 21 regional training centers; 15
vehicles for the inspectors to ensure monitoring and on-the-job training of
the teachers; six man-months of consultants for local training of inspectors
and 65 man-months of fellowships and study trips for local specialists;
aboult 760 man-years of in-service teacher training, 10 man-years of
inspector training, 60 man-years of training for school principals, and 30
mci-years of training for EFI's teacher trainers and incremental operating
costs of equipment provided to monitor BER training provided at the
inspectorate level. An agreement has been signed with UNICEF to finance
part of the primary teacher upgrading program. Annex 3.5 provides details
on the component for improving the quality and efficiency of primary
education.
3.11     At the secondary level, the ongoing training of the 1,600 general
secondary school teachers organized and supervised by BEPES would be
intensified in order to achieve qualitative improvement within shorter time
periods and in broader subjects, ranging from languages and social sciences
to mathematics and physical sciences. Special attention would be given to
population subjects, in close cooperation with an IDA-financed Health and
Population Project being processed for Board presentation. As part of this
project, specific education materials would be prepared by population
specialists, and teachers would be trained to use them. In-service training
would be implemented under the direction of BEPES, which has the human
resources needed to conduct seminars, monitor teachers on the job, and
prepare specialized training sessions where required. As in the seminars
for primary school teachers, the training seminars would be held during
school vacation periods. It is expected that each teacher would undergo a
total of about 15 days of training over a five-year period. This training
would be complemented by on-the-job monitoring by BEPES specialists, the
provision of detailed teacher guides, and in the case of the physical
sciences, equipment and supplies adapted to teaching those subjects.
3.12     Pro ect funds would finances furniture and equipment for science
rooms; general education materials; four vehicles for the monitoring and
supervision of teachers by BEPES specialists; about 36 man-months of
fellowships and study trips for local specialists; about 68 man-years of in-
service training for teachers and school principals; and incremental
operating costs for the equipment provided. Annex 3.6 provides details on
this sub-component to improve the training of general secondary school
teachers.



- 15 -
3.13     Improvement of science instruction. The quality of physical science
instruction in the secondary schools would be improved by the provision of
adequate facilities and equipment adapted to the program prepared by BEPES
specialists. About 10 classrooms in secondary schools would be renovated,
furnished and provided with basic instructional materials and equipment.
.  cost of this sub-component is included in the cost of secondary school
rehabilitation and construction (para 3.19).
3.14     Textbooks and teacher guides.  To help the Ministry of Education
not only to meet urgent short-term needs for student textbooks and teacher
guides and reduce their cost, but also over the long term to improve the
internal efficiency of education, the project would strengthen the R4gie des
Productions P6dagogiques (RPP), which, under the direction of BER, is
responsible for editing, printing and distributing educational materials to
the schools. While RPP is already performing very efficiently and its
output so far is impressive, more equipment and consumables are needed to
maintain this momentum and expand the production of textbooks and teacher
guides. The increased production of textbooks would serve to strengthen the
existing revolving fund, which is permanently replenished by parents'
contributions, collected by school headmasters, in exchange for textbooks
loaned for the academic year. Finally, to strengthen the cost-efficiency of
RPP administration, a specialist in textbook production and administration
would be recruited. It is expected that about 2.5 million primary school
textbooks and 0.5 million secondary school textbooks, at an average cost of
US$0.6 each, and 80,000 teacher guides would be printed and distributed
under the project. Annex 3.7 provides a list of textbooks to be produced
during project implementation.
3.15     For the textbook sub-component, the project would provide financing
for some additional printing equipment; 36 man-months of specialist services
and six man-months of fellowships; and consumables and incremental operating
costs related to the equipment provided.
5. Improvement of Access to Education for Rural Children
3.16     This project component addresses the issue of inequity in access to
education in favor of urban areas described in paras 2.04-2.05, and
attributable to the wide dispersion of the population throughout the
country, the shortage of primary gchool facilities, and the small number of
lower secondary schools in rural areas. To improve access to education for
rural children, the project would finance the construction and/or
rehabilitation of primary schools, the construction of three rural lower
secondary schools (Collages Ruraux), and the reconversion of about ten upper
secondary schools where most boarding places would be converted into
classrooms to allow for more lower secondary student places and where
science rooms would be set up and equipped.
3.17     Reorganization and strenRthening of MEN's school construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance capacity. The project would assist in the
reorganization of the Education Projects Unit (BPE) currently responsible
for school construction as well as for IDA and AfDB-financed project
implementation and administration (para 2.01). To strengthen its project
implementation capabilities, BPE would be reorganized into two departments,
both headed by a single director. One department (BPE) would be responsible
for project management; the othe would become the School Construction Unit
(D4partement des Constructions Scolaires-DCS). To monitor project
administration, three units would be under the direct responsibility of the
Project Director: (i) the project implementation and supervision unit; (ii)
the accounting unit; and (iii) the procurement unit. In addition, the
Project Director would supervise the Director of the DCS. The DCS would



- 16 -
comprise four units: (i) the civil works design and supervision unit; (ii)
the accounting unit; (iii) the personnel unit; and (iv) the workshops and
prefabrication unit (para 3.09). Except for the teacher tra4.uing specialist
who would be a consultant, all BPE staff would be civil servants. To
implement the school construction program financed under the project, DCS
would employ its staff on a contractual basis, in accordance with the
planned workload. It is anticipated that the high-level staff to be
recruited by DCS will include about three architects, a procurement
specialist, an accountant, and 15 construction technicians. This personnel
would be responsible for the preparation, implementation and supervision of
the technical aspects of the school construction program, including the
preparation of designs and bid documents, procurement and delivery of
construction materials, employment of skilied workers, and site supervision.
For a limited number of secondary schools, DCS would also undertake the
civil works involved. The decree for reorganizing BPE, creating the School
Construction Unit (DCS) and showing the distribution of personnel, is under
discussion with the Government. The reorganization of the BPS by
establishing DCS in due form is a condition of Credit effectiveness (para.
5.05). Annex 3.8 shows the organigrams of DCS and BPE agreed durlng
negotiations.
3.18     Primary school construction and rehabilitation.  To improve access
to primary education a budget corresponding to the construction, furniture
and equipment costs of about 55 rural primary schools, each comprising six
classrooms, and an administration office, would be included in the project.
This budget would also include funds for the rehabilitation of existing
primary schools, and the construction of six urban primary schools initially
included in the Urban Project (Gitea (Nyamugari), Ngozi (quartier Swahili),
Kayansa (colline de Mukara), Rutonge (quartier Swahili) and Bujumbura
(Gasenyi and Kanyasha)). Agreement was reached during negotiations that
these schools would be constructed only if the population of the urban
project areas increased by at least 1500 inhabitants as of December 1987.
if the criteria is not met, the funds would be used for other schools judged
to be priority in the school map. The strategy for the primary school
construction program emphasizes the role of the rural communities as
follows: (a) prior to the construction phase, the Government and IDA would
agree on the number and sites of schools to be built in accordance with the
existing school map, and this agreement would be made annually, with the
first one to be made during negotiations; (b) when the annual program is
established, the Director of DCS would inform each provincial governor of
the number of schools to be built in his province; (c) the Governors would
then advise the local administrators and communities that they may start the
preparatory work, i.e., site preparation and collection of local
construction materials; (d) upon completion of the preparatory work, the
Governors would distribute all materials needed to complete the construction
or rehabilitation of the schools, i.e., cement, corrugated roofing sheets,
doors and windows. The whole construction process would be carefully
monitored by construction technicians recruited to assist the Governors in
supervising construction and to ensure that construction errors made in the
past are not repeated. The construction technicians would also assist the
communities with the preparatory work; recruit, employ and pay the skilled
workers needed to build the schools; and report to the Governors. In his
dual capacity as Government and project representative and as the authority
responsible for implementation of the country's school construction program,
the Director of BPE would supervise the entire process. Annex 3.9 provides
details on the construction strategy for the primary schools and also for
the secondary schools (para 3.19 below). In addition and to compare costs,
the BPE will ask bids for about 252 of the primary schools from the local
private sector.



- 17 -
3.19     Secondary school construction and renovation. To improve access of
rural children to secondary education, the project would finance the
construction of three lower secondary schools of 320 places each and the
renovation of about 10 existing secondary schools. The school construction
and renovation program would be shared between the private sector and DCS.
By increasing the role of the private sector in construction and renovation,
the DCS parastatal functions would be reduced, and consequently competition
between the private and parastatal sectors is expected to have a positive
effect on construction costs. To this end and as a first step, the
renovation of two of the 10 secondary schools would be performed by the
private sector; simultaneously, DCS would be responsible for two other
secondary schools. A comparison of costs, including DCS overhead, time
factor, and quality of workmanship, would be made between the schools
renovated by the private sector and those renovated by DCS. Depending on the
results, the renovation of the remaining six schools would be undertaken by
either the private sector or DCS.
3.20     Phasing.  In the component to improve access to education for rural
children, the school construction program would be implemented in two
phases. The first phase would include about one half of the primary and
secondary school construction program and two new secondary schools. The
second phase expected to start in the third year of the project would
comprise the remaining construction program. Within each phase and in
conformity with the agreed annual construction program, disbursement of
funds would be made by the Government without preliminary agreement by IDA.
Funds for implementing the first phase would be available for disbursement
at project effectiveness. Funds for the second phase would be released only
after the mid-term objectives of the sectoral adjustment program agreed upon
during negotiations are attained (para. 3.04). It is anticipated that
reaching these targets may take about 30 months. As stated in para. 3.04,
during negotiations the Government and IDA would agree that a condition of
disbursement for the second phase of the school construction program would
be the realization of satisfactory progress in implementing the policy
measures targeted for the mid-term of the sectoral adjustment program.
3.21     Maintenance.  Implementation of the school maintenance program
would be decentralized, as fol:ovws (a) for primary schools, the local
community administrator (Administrateur de Commune), the school director,
the cantonal inspector and a parent's representative would be responsible
for the use of parents' contributions and would decide which schools need
repair and maintenance work; and (b) for secondary schools, the
responsibilities would devolve upon the school principal who, in the annual
school budget allocated by the Government already has a line of credit for
building, furniture and equipment maintenance. This line of credit has
often been diverted to other types of expenses, i.e. purchase of textbooks
and other educational materials, fuel for school vehicles, and financing of
meals for boarders. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that: (a) MEN's Department of Planning, with the assistance of the BPE
Director, has the authority to control and monitor the use of the
maintenance funds by the Administrateurs de Covmunes for primary schools and
by the school principals for secondary schools; (b) adequate funds will be
made available for primary school maintenance purposes; and tc) an adequate
annual budget, to be agreed with IDA, will be earmarked for maintenance of
the secondary schools.



- 18 -
3.22     For the entire component aiming at improving access to education
for rural children, which includes the reorganization and strengthening of
DCS, construction and rehabilitation of primary and secondary schools, and
the establishment and monitoring of a maintenance program (paras.
3.17-3.21), the IDA credit would finasce: (a) for the primary schools, the
purchase of construction materials, furniture and equipment, the salaries of
the construction technicians, delivery of construction materials and
equipment to the sites, DCS operating expenses (including local and
expatriate personnel), and the training of local personnel; and (b) for the
secondary schools, consultant services and the cost of construction,
furniture and equipment for about three new lower secondary schools, and the
renovation of about 10 secondary schools.
B. Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
3.23     Project cost.  The total project cost is estimated at US$37.5
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$26.4 million
(70Z). The project would be exempt from taxes and duties. Base cost
estimates have been adjusted to December 1987, the date of negotiations, on
the basis of April 1987 prices. The estimated project costs are given in
Annex 3.10 and summarized below:
Z of
FBU (million)          US$ (million)      Base
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total Cost
1) Educational
Planning                   47    154    201             388   1,261   1,649   5
2) Quality
Inmrovement
Primary                 341    393    734           2,797   3,222   6,019  18
Secondary                59    168    227             486   1,377   1,863   6
3) Access
Improvement
Primary                 375    692    967           2,250   5,676   7,926  24
Secondary               338  1,278  1,605           2,764  10,389  13,153  40
4) Proiect
Administration             10      91    101            168      754     922   7
5) Scholarships               35    159    194             200   1,300   1,500
TOTAL BASE COST (1-4)      1,105  2,935  4,029           9,053  23,979  33,032 100
(November, 1987)
5) Contingencies
a) Physical (6?)           63    181    244             521   1,475   1,996
b) Price Increase (7Z)   184    112    296            1,512     921   2,433
Sub-total (5)        247    293    540          2,033   2,396   4,429
TOTAL PROJECT COST         1,352  3,228  4,569          11,086  26,375  37,461
=~in =="    "a             ===r mm=   aw=



- 19 -
3.24      Contingency allowances.  An average of 62 (US$2.0 million) for
physical contingencies has beer. applied to the project base costs. Price
contingencies are based on the implementation schedule and the following
expected annual price increasess
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Foreign         3.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    3.5    3.5    3.5
Local           7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
3.25      Financing plan.  An IDA credit of Special Drawing Rights of 23.0
million (US$31.5 million) and UNDP and UNICEF parallel contributions
equivalent to US$0.6 and US$1.0, respectively, would be provided towards the
financing of the project. The UNDP contribution would finance technical
assistance, fellowships, and equipment for the educational planning and
administration component (para 3.07). The UNICEF contribution would finance
the cost of training seminars for primary school teachers and headmasters
during the first two years of the project (para 3.10). Both have been
signed. The Government would contribute the remainder (US$4.4 equivalent)
to include cash for local salaries, project administration, and cash in-kind
contributions of local communities for unskilled labor and local
construction materials.
3.26      Recurrent cost implications of the project.  The staffing of 55
new primary schools to be built under the project implies the recruitment of
300 teachers, representing an annual incremental wage bill of FBU 66.0
million (US$0.5 million). This increment is already included in the
sectoral PEP, and would be compensated by savings generated through
implementation of the structural adjustment measures to be undertaken at the
primary level (paras 3.03 and 3.04). The three new lower secondary schools
and the renovated secondary schools (Annex 3.9), together enrolling about
1.000 students, would be staffed with 50 teachers whose additional costs
would be largely made up by gains in efficiency resulting from the sectoral
adjustment measures, particularly those aiming at a rationalization of
personnel allocation and management at the secondary level (para 3.02).
School maintenance at the primary and secondary levels entail additional
costs which would be covered at both levels by an increase in student fees
and by improvement of the collection and management of their proceeds.
Ircremental operating costs linked to the expanded capacity of the Regie des
Productions Pedagogiques (RPP) would also be compensated by the projected
increase in student fees and the strengthening of RPP's revolving fund under
the project (para 3.14).
C. Project Implementation
1. Project Preparation and Management
3.27      Status of preparation.  Project preparation is well advanced and
implementation of all components can start as soon as financing is
available. Sites for the three new lower secondary schools (para 3.19)
have been identified and found acceptable by IDA. Sites for the new primary
schools would be made available by the Government free of cost and would be
located in accordance with the existing school map (para 3.18). The
Government has confirmed the availability of all sites, acceptable to IDA.
The same lists used in previous IDA-financed projects in Burundi would be
used for furnishing and equipping the facilities included in the project.
These lists have been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable. The existing
highly efficient Education Projects Unit (BPE) would be responsible for



- 20 -
project implementation.
3.28      ManaLement.  The project would be implemented over a period of
about five and a half years. The disbursement profile for Burundi is six
years. However, the ongoing and completed education projects have been
implemented in less than six years (para 2.12); therefore, and in view of
its advanced stage of preparation, the proposed project's implementation
period of five and a half years seems reasonable. The project is expected to
be completed by December 31, 1993. MEN's Departments would be responsible
for implementing the qualitative aspects of the project, i.e., policy
measures, teacher training seminars and the production and distribution of
textbooks and other educational materials. It would also monitor
implementet'on of the budgetary aspects of the school facilities maintenance
program (para. 3.21). The Education Projects Unit (BPE) would be
responsible for monitoring the implementation of the hardware components,
coordL-ating project implementation between the various departments
responsiele for the software aspects, serving as liaison between IDA and the
project agenr.cies, and supporting the School Construction Unit (DCS) in the
areas of financial administration and overall management. DCS would be
responsible for all project-related procurement aspects, and in particular,
the procurement and distribution of building materials for primary schools,
provision of skilled laborers to the communities, and construction and
renovation of some of the secondary schools (paras 3.17 and 3.19). To
perform these tasks the DCS would employ, in addition to locally recruited
personnel, the services of about five highly qualified and experienced
experts in the field of architecture, construction management, procurement
and accounting for the entire duration of the project.
3.29      Specialist services and fellowships.  The project would provide
about 145 man-months of overseas fellowships, 114 man-months of specialist
services, and about 940 man-years of local training. In addition and to
help implement the construction/renovation program, DCS would employ the
services of about 1,900 man-months of local (1,500 man-months) and foreign
(336 man-months) construction, procurement and accounting technicians.
Terms of references for the specialists have been prepared and contracts
wvould be awarded in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that: (a)
fellowships will be awarded on the basis of agreed criteria and procedures;
and (b) fellowship recipients will remain in their post for at least three
tines the duration of these studies upon completion of their studies.
Details of the specialist services and fellowship programs and award
criteria are provided in Annexes 3.11 and 3.12.
3.30      Maintenance.  The Government finds it difficult to adequately
maintain public buildings, mainly because of budgetary constraints. The
project addresses this problem by setting up mechanisms, at both the primary
and secondary levels, which should help to enhance awareness of the
importance of maintenance and by providing funds for performing routine
maintenance (para 3.21). There are sufficient piece-workers available in
Burundi who could, under DCS supervision, perform the tasks involved. The
required building materials could be procured either on the local market or
through DCS.



- 21 -
2. Procurement
3.31      The project procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Project Element                           Procurement Method            Total
ICB     LCB   Other    N.A.      Cost
----…--(US$ Million)--------
Civil Works:
(a) Primary schools             3.1 1/  2.0     3.8 2/            8.9
(3.1)   (2.0)   (2.9)             (8.0)
(b) Secondary schools           3.9 1/  4.*     2.2 21           10.5
(3.9)   (4.3)   (2.0)            (10.2)
Furniture, Equipment
Vehicles and Materials                5.1      0.6 3/   -                5.7
(5.1)   (0.5)     -               (5.6)
Technical Assistance,
Training and Studies                   -        -      9.7               9.7
-       -     (7.4)             (7.4)
Local Salaries                         -        -       -      2.7       2.7
-       -       -      (0.3)    (0.3)
TOTAL                                12.1      7.0    15.7     2.7      37.5
(12.1)   (6.8)  (12.3)   (0.3)   (31.5)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA.
1/ Building materials
2/ Force account and conmmunities' contribution
31 Contracts less the US$50,000 equivalent.
3.32     Primary Schools: About 75 percent of the proposed geographically
scattered primary schools (US$80,000 equivalent each) would be constructed
by the commmNnities with the assistance of the School Construction Unit
(DCS). Building materials would be procured by the DCS and awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines
for procurement (ICB) (US$3.1 million equivalent). The DCS would provide
administrative services including construction coordination, supervision and
transport of materials to the building sites (US$3.3 million equivalent).
The communities would provide locally available building materials and
unskilled labor (US$0.5 million equivalent). To promote the local
construction industry, and providing that the costs are reasonable,
contracts for about 25 percent of the proposed primary schools would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally and in



- 22 -
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA (LCB) (US$2.0 million
equivalent). Secondary Schools: Because of the small size, type of work
(conversion, rehabilitation and small extensions) and because of excellent
past results with the DCS, about 60 percent of the construction of the
secondary schools wou'A be performed by the DCS. Building materials would
be procured after ICB (US$3.9 million) and the DCS would award some of the
construction contracts to subcontractors after limited local bidding (US$0.8
million). The DCS would perform works through force account estimated to
cost US$2.2 million equivalent. In an attempt to share the work with the
private sector and to compare cost efficiency and quality of workmanship
between the DCS and the private sector, contracts for about 40 percent of
the secondary schools would be awarded after LCB (US$4.4 million
equivalent). Contracts for furniture, equipment, building materials and
materials would be awarded after ICB except for contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each, which would be awarded after LCB. The aggregate
total of such contracts is not expected to exceed US$0.6 million equivalent.
When ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers of goods would be
allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent over the c.i.f. price of
competing foreign suppliers or the existing applicable rate of import
duties, whichever is lower. Items which cannot be grouped, or groups of
items, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 may be procured after local
shopping.
3.33     IDA review.  Sketch plans, draft bid documents, and master lists of
furniture, equipment and vehicles, including grouping and cost estimates,
would be reviewed by IDA. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable
to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk procurement. IDA review of
bid evaluation documents prior to award would be required only for contracts
exceeding US$500,000 equivalent for civil works and US$50,000 for furniture,
equipment, building materials, and vehicles.
3. Disbursements
3.34     Disbursements under the proposed IDA credit would be made on the
basis of:
(a)  10OZ of total expenditures for Phase I and II of Drimary
school civil works, furniture, equipment and b  ,  ig
materials and for construction operating costs of DCS.
(b)  10O  of total expenditures for Phase I and II of secondary
school civil works, furniture, equipment and building
materials and for construction operating costs of DCS.
(c)  10OZ of total expenditures for furniture, equipment,
materials, vehicles, textbooks and operating costs not
included in the primary and secondary school components.
(d) 100l of total expenditures for specialist services and
training not included in the primary and secondary school
components.
(e) 10OX of education related studies.



- 23 -
(f) 100? of total'expenditures for project administration
operating costs.
(g)  50? of project administration local salaries; and
(h) 100? for higher education scholarships for the 1987-88
academic year.
The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 3.13. All
disbursements would be fully documented except fort (a) civil works,
excluding building materials done through force account and contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (b) furniture, equipment, materials
and vehicles costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (c) training; and (d)
operating costs, for which disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOE) which would be certified by the Project Director. The
documentation of SOEs would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be
retained by the Government and made available for inspection by IDA during
project supervision. The disbursement schedule has been estimated on the
basis of the implementation schedule and the sector profile for Burundi.
4. Special Account
3.35     To ensure that funds for the Education Project's Unit will be made
available when needed, a Special Account in Burundi Francs operated by BPE,
would be established in a financial institution acceptable to IDA, with an
initial deposit of about US$500,000 equivalent to cover about four months of
expenditures, which would be withdrawn from the credit account after credit
effectiveness. The Special Account would be replenished on the basis of
documentary evidence, provided to IDA by BPE, of payments made from the
account for goods and services required for the project that are eligible
for financing under the credit.
5. Monitorins and Evaluation
3.36     Annual progress reports on project implementation would be
submitted to IDA by BPS by each June 30, following credit effectiveness.
The format of the reports would be similar to those routinely utilized for
comparable Bank Group education projects. The reports would briefly
identify major problems, if any, and recommend solutions; review the
performance of implementing authorities and agencies; and maintain
performance key indicators in reaching project goals. In addition, the
Government would prepare and send to IDA for comment, not later than six
months after final disbursements from the credit account, a completion
report assessing the attainment of project objectives, project
implementation and initial operation, its cost and the benefits derived, the
performance of the Government, IDA and other agencies involved, and the
significant lessons learned.
6. Auditing
3.37     BPE would maintain separate accounts for all project activities, in
conformity with national accounting practices. These accounts would be
controlled in accordance with normal Government financial control
procedures, which are satisfactory. BPE would prepare and submit to IDA an
annual report summarizing the financial situation of all project operations.



- 24 -
Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all expenditures financed
under the project, with particular attention to those reimbursed under SOEs
(para 3.34). The audit report would include a separate analysis of the use
of IDA funds under the Special Account (para 3.35). Auditing would be
pRerformed by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, within six months
following the end of the Government fiscal year. and would be financed under
the project.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01     Benefitss  First, the project would help the Government to meet the
major part of its political commitment to attain UPS by the year 1995/96.
In effect, through the application of the sectoral adjustment measures,
enrollments at the primary level are expected to increase by about 18?
(72,000 additional students) by the end of the project, without increasing
the share of education in the Governmnt budget from its 1986/87 level.
Second, the strengthening of MEN's planning, budgeting and cost-control
capacities would permit, in the long term, a more effective allocation of
budgetary resources, allowing further expansion of enrollments within the
available education budget. Third, the project-supported measures to
improve the quality of education at the primary and secondary levels would
have two types of effects (a) during the span of the project, the teaching
capabilities of the entire primary and secondary teaching staff would be
enhanced and the majority of the students would be provided with a critical
mass of education materials, enabling them to study under favorable
conditions despite overcrowded classrooms and the adoption of the double-
shift system at the primary level; and (b) in the long term, better-trained
students will be able to complete the secondary and higher education cycles
more rapidly, thus leading to a reduction of unit costs at these levels.
iWhen all the project objectives are met, the restructured education sector
would become much more efficient and better suited to the goals of the
country's economic development.
4.02     Risks.  Three potential risks concerning this project are
anticipated. First, policy measures such as the containment of the growth
of secondary and higher education and implementation of a cost-recovery
system, based on parents' contributions to tuition and boarding expenses,
may not be fully endorsed by the country's population. Aware of this risk,
the Government intends to embark upon a public acceptance campaign. Second,
there is a risk that the Government may be unable to resist demands from
upper secondary and higher education students and their families to maintain
a disproportionately high allocation for fellowships, thus jeopardizing the
financing of primary educational development. Experience with the short
lived student loan scheme at university level shows that these pressures are
difficult to resist. Finally, a third risk concerns the possible decrease
in educational quality resulting from the generalization of the double-shift
system and the increase in teacher/student ratios. To reduce this risk, the
project would provide for the permanent monitoring of teachers by
inspectors, improved school administration through the training of
headmasters and teachers, and increased production and distribution of
textbooks.



- 25 -
V. ABRED{INTS REACHED AND RBCOQIENDDATIONS
5.91     Durint neaotiationst the Government submitted for IDA's review a
Public Expenditure Program for 1989-91 and a Public Investment Plan (para.
2.14).
5.02     During negotiations, the Governments Ca) provided contracts with
architectural firms for the renovation of two secondary schoolsg (b)
confirmed the availability of all sites of the new primary and secondary
schools to be built under the project (para 3.27); (c) submitted an
agreement between the Government and UNDP for the financing of the
educational planning and administration component (para. 3.07); (d)
submltted the decree creating and organizing the Coordinating Committee for
Education Activities lCCAP) (para. 3.09); and (e) submitted an agreement
between the Government and UNICEF for financing part of the primary teacher
upgrading program (para. 3.10).
5.03     Durins negotiations, the Government gave assurances thats
(a)  the targets set out in the Monitoring Table for the sectoral
adjustment program will be closely monitored and IDA will be
kept informed annually on the objectives attained (para.
3.03);
(b) Ci) the Public Investment Program (PIP) already agreed will be
established on a rolling basis and each annual revision will
be submitted to IDA for agreement; and (ii) any project not
included in the education PIP and worth more than the
equivalent of US$500,000, regardless of the source of its
financing, will be submitted to and discussed with IDA before
being agreed upon (para. 3.05);
(c) (i) MEN's Department of Planning, with the assistance of the
BPZ Director, has the authority to control and monitor the use
of the maintenance funds by the local community administrators
for primary schools and by the school principals for secondary
schools; (ii) sufficient funds will be made available for
maintenance of the primary schools; and (iii) an adequate
annual budget, to be agreed with IDA, will be earmarked for
maintenance of the secondary schools (para. 3.21); and
(d)  (i) fellowships will be awarded on the basis of agreed
criteria and procedures; and (ii) fellowship recipients will
remain in their post for at least three times the time spent
on fellowship upon completion of their studies (para. 3.19).



- 26 -
5.04     A condition of disbuleement for the second phase of the school
construction program would be realization of satisfactory progress in
attaining the mid-term objectives of the sectoral adjustment program (paras.
3.04 and 3.20).
5.05     As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit, the
Government shoulds (a) submit a PEP for the years 1988 through 1990 and the
corresponding financial plan for the year 1988 with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.05); and (b) reorganize 3PE by
establishing DCS in due form.
5.06     Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
Education Sector Development Project would constitute a suitable basis for
an IDA credit of SDR 23.0 million (US$31.5 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Burundi.



- 27 -                             ANNEX 1.1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDIIREPUBLIQUT. DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
BASIC DATAIDONNEES DE BASE
(All figures apply to 1987 unless otherwise indicated/
Tous les chiffres se rapportent A l'annee 1987, sauf indication contraire)
A. General
- Land area/Superficie                              27,835 km2
-  Total population/Population totale               4.9 million
- Annual population growth rate/Taux annuel
d'augmentation de la population                3.0X
- Density per km2lDensity au km2                    180
- Rural population/Populition rurale                921
- Adult literacy rate/Taux a'alphabetisation
des adultes                                    352
- GNP per capita/PNB per capita                     US$ 240



-28-                             ANNEX 1.1
Page 2 of 3
B. Number of Students and Enrollment Rates/
Nombre d'4laves et taus do scolarisation
(School year 1986/87//Annde scolaire 198611987)
Level/   Student   S girls  Gross enrol. ratio/ St.Teach. ratio
number/
Niveau   Nombre    2 filles Taux scolarisation Ratio 4lves/
d'6l1ves           brut                enseigpants
_______   ________  ________  ____ __ __ __ __   __-
Primaire          450,903    42.5            58.4              63sl
General Lower
Secondary         12,189   26.0
General Upper
Secondary          2,290   24j5                               21:1
Teacher Trng        6,424   49.0              4.0
Tech. Lower
Secondary
Tech. Upper
Secondary          2,807   48.4                               11:1
Higher Education    3,880                                      83:1



-29 -                               ANNEX 1.1
Page 3 of 3
C. Education Cost and Financinu/Cott et Financement de l'Education
(1986)
Level-Category                Education Budget         (I of Education
(million FBU)/          Budget/
Niveau ou Categorie           Budget Education         X du Budget de
(million FBU)           l'Education
Primary/Primaire                  1,685,318                     44.7
Secondury General and
Teacher Training/
Secondaire general et
formation des maStres             806,890                    21.4
Secondaire Technicall
Secondaire Technique              299,097                     7.9
Higher/Superieur                    849,419                    22.5
Non formal/Nonformel                 55,728                      1.5
General Administration/
Administration generale            72,489                      1.9
_ TOTAL                           3,768,941                    100.0
As Z of Government Recurrent Budget/
En Z du Budget des depenses courantes du Gouvernements 20.8X.
Recurrent Cost per student (US$)/Ddpenses courantes par etudiant ($EU)
Unit Cost/            X GNP per capita
CoUt Unitaire         Z PNB per capita
Primary/Primaire                     50.4                    21X
General Sec. and Teacher
Trng/Sec. general et
Formation des maltres             622.2                   259Z
Tech. Sec./Secondaire Tech.       1,497.2                   6232
Higher Education/
Supdrieur                       5,084.7                 2,1182



- 30 -                                                                           ANNME 1. 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPVEKENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
COMPARATIVE EDUCATIONi INDICATORS/
INDICATEUi&S CUMPARATIFS DE LIEDUCATION
ON 1M4811VU      cump 3MUN CTPL?20                                       3EC3UN ITcm n"1141
843   909.  CAPITA  943182  Wu  1041 CINUA  AUA2CAIO 10: LAn                 £2302.. SoNOOL" sIw            m s'cvos  938744*7 to  91001,"    sIguics  zuau.
MNA  N18.8A. (U034     VotIo 20  60V930462          Pit  sIc  NI    (2)    BAtto   CIOLS           PIE        AS 913018? SCON0fTv   BAflf         :21         BAlI:
(8979) (8979)   LUICAIItON  u1IE114110111          (1)         (197*)   (4)         (2)      ?tACUas  GO2PCA184         (1)         (1)      TEAChER      (2)
"%*A          ~~41    21.o4  Usi04       4.8I."                    0   344  233      4o       to8   00   7          it3        23.0         too           q20      71        82.40
3(41AN0?.S          to     4.2       23                                3    427 0256994 -4          29        35         37         --           100            324      -7        80
011911111RLW       44      0.40     440       3.    1.9               73    4   .. 0               4s2Sgb? 9  Os         I0         ISO                        020          29. 00
4728*6             41      334.  134s         3.9         88.8        4t1.   2120         lob       4X       t0o          to        89.3          934          I"       I4 (AY       4"
=SIIet             £2I      7.4b     $0b60 430  .484      30j          41   £4   88       40~      883        ,t         34         11..           s*          80        it        1.
(0641A3C43     77~6   04.     3US       4.OW         24.0        13   I 23    9     1      2 43  1                             a40           38          8t,       '3         38140
338AM1i             31     0*4       33b       .1         II.#        73   24   .5        to4       02        2S         41        ;;.-O          8)                     *9        0.40
11t91?1US           8I      8.04b  I.iob    4.3           14.0         46.2 3      o  7   Qob       93        M72        A23        83.3         800            40       2*        8.00
3gA                 g      I)  Ib4  27$       3.6         27.4b        71   16   13       374b     113         0         40         I6.0.         is                     20        0.4
53332..4            79     0.0b  2.770        1.9         12.9        39033  68           Sib -     -X         -      1            -s ..                      -.                  -  
00241.84       68~77  S'S       11 4.1 40 8.         2.0.        5g   444  I4    so ~   u4b3             IoL        S9b        9,.           Is4         87         2 I       8.00o
10448         80~~~a     59.3b    lQ4    3.0          -14         i          2        s 66 9..2 58       0          34          1.4          44,          80        80        3
16334.986          80    8.           00,   1.9           87.0        47   80   2.       s79       944       97          4s         18.3         too           in       20         0.30
LCAJM  40    *2.64    *OO~~~~~~~~~    -   16.I~~~~  334  374  *0~~~~~  48l   14        so         340          .            7            3        23        0.00
24543        6~~~~:1    3,:9.5  280k    7.6          26.4        -3   -6   20O  7                         1          0         7.             .38                    8        20
*173488            4 so       74    700k    5.8           89.05       02 3                4          0        3          39        *0.            9            2        23          .3
SWASIWD       79      34        3$      63           30.0         3 2 5 1 34 ;;              *43         30         46        14.0'          t0            9 1   43           I.001
TAXtAXIA  so    IS.$   260     5.9         28.7         43   39o  28       7         9 8        1          437       i4.3          80            3        goo       0.03
64.6300             84     80.0b    *t$       3.19         -*          33142              SO       89         is4         34        2101                                 28        2.700
CAIIA               76      4.4      82 0     4.4P4'?         1        46 13 2 3j474     8                    to.1  -    77         .I .9                       31       22        0.20o
SLULV77               G.    5.420        .7t?         41.41        3         i       9          6        I -  -     443'6                                ..         94v        .80'?
6IA2I11£1           77    10.6        2       3.)"         6.s         4     6    488$0             404       90b        So4        -47           40           821       27        -.
018443             .74    88.3       400      14.01       85.14             -. -                    741                            -              -            --4       --3'    28O-
coo93               79      1.3      29o      24"y         1.  -       25    -4  23      I2s        3         14         387        2004                       84        291       7.200
cow351             40       1.9      520     4.4m         89.6 for3 34                  1           12-  -    12         3         *)0                          -*      430        2.90o
,841384NA           7?      1.6k     32$      1.3         60.          33 43 21a G    lob           32b       go.b 44 37.4                        30           9x       25         0.3
GUIVA44                .1.      300      2.0     2,.0            402ZIP5       20  8           214       70         34        48.)0          JS           16       26         0.300
30.438*n           43      9.3*6    ,O0       7.43        ta                 -    23    1040 is     93        .3         36        29.0           at          *22        30        3.00
SL'IGUAI           44      0.4       140      1.04        24.0        444334    4    38              2        39         4S        210.           898         84         74        2.90'
70U00               74  .4           400     0.34'        24.34       30420   28 I       t8         70        .0         1441       t 34.0        36          31        43I        0.oobv
'. IAPAUM461££8  is3 04138144                 55           60          3     3    5       l          2        40         44         5             1                       S
St= 113             7        .27.    2.20     2.71        8109        40'  2    8to    934         69        32          87         -1:           27           3    8   8         2.500
3488445l 790.2b  270b    5.47                             19.8         16368            934         99        9.)        24         I             97          73         89       -0
3433460             76     0.3   2,40         5.01,3      22.80       436   38'  863   990         800        99t        271       89.98          998         764       *1       -
$02.1 Lou          80       3.4      330     4*j8?        30.ob       -      - -        63b         JIM74?   - 3$                   I.-                         8 S     --         2.40by
N    WIA7                  80.9   1.610       s.241       13.04        41 -    -   1 -             j $943                3403                                  I3I2      84       28.900?
0144A184            i0    30.7    2 8.6       3.)         25.0         36    0 2        4     ~     7 30 I 9b4           324        4.0                       47        20        800
CSTAR4              isG  4  o     2.88$       6.4M        321.2       430   26  339   90           9o3        O  I7      3          19.3          9"           IV       207       -4.0
SO3I                7o      9.86     -s       6.04        *8.50       -      4-         40         883k'      94         843       .-             98          7842       83;      89.0*4
EuL 5290            77    40.4      .490      3.441       13.14       4      8 2        02-        82I        32bY  -    39b       -               -1          3SbXy    2701y      7.9"by
66611(45.           so      0.61   8.080o     2.71        t*.'o        is   ..  --    Rib           I,,2       -6        154        -.            49          8143       a        10.014
07.71   CA          70     0.4l   1.30b    8.841           31.61      40   2       3    90          9942 1  -            I24        S-            -.           9431      2-        3.004
hAItI               *o               230-     3.4'        71.03       03    9    4    334           3         20         48b        89.          74b8          :         2         0.802
2riRSSCAS           78P  s  3.0     .320      3.34        14.341       9 62' 18  898   40          89o        30'        48g       82.4           463         .-         19       1.001
34.2080            40       2.8   1.880       .0.3        83.7        17   431   20    90          985        9          40         2.)          91           88        22        8.00
EL80 8"Ak           77      4460 031  .80      4.7        87.06y      640    a3   I     92          986g      33         49         9.            60          10x        87b      80.30
.8CATLAAGA          7 is            68$       1.04'       8.00           - .                       6 44   54  -4         37        .9 -                       3ba2    30by        -
HAITGOI             s9      3.0b  8.10        8.4'        84.2o       42   87 30    8              43         32         28         39.t          724         *2         1*        0.70
7140SIA            80      84.0 800           3.0b        14.3ly       2 33   8   I 89    80       83ba       MA         39b         2.84         69          3.y I9 22           8.40
:42A  1  070A77            11      .90       &.4           43.34?        4  32 20    919t8o0                                       8.7            .90                    4       -
~~I8.C0A1    74     2~~.9b  2.300     3.31m       914.0              *-.         94        8ss4'      -.1         $lb       ..            ..           4442      .0       8
?AkzIBA=            7     14.4   t.4140      5.8?          4. 88,4    -           - to       8      0 4k 328                       m-                         33422      17 2       .107



-31 -                                                                    ANNEX 1.2
Page 2 of 2
. ........ *StUIDtt~abt 361195   EATON                                            CCUPLtEftI           LECUBIt
as IE   ioN  3883*lt         LI?              RLtA torn            UNIT cOa   pt osssos
Cop m               AS U1 ttCN.        tt SIlS   LUtZEACT P35tY  MtIA         n AaT  PnAt*    SATE tbO#   NECONDAY SECOUMA? 8401t11
sg  Po. CPtU   MICU   M 0OUL CNtWL AUSCA    Os 3*11                    thOU.. SCtWOL       STUNTS SoUCAttoN  PRLS? To  E1RI.L.   ptUMm   tNMU .
918  NULLS. CUSS)    9vo U OleB0 COVIuSS       Pat  SWC  US    Cs)    "AI'o   0915.        PCs      AS PERCENT $tCMAIT   RATIO        PER        Miss
(tol97   (1979)   Fou"ttolt  siPSDItU          Jc)       (1976)   ()       CYs)      11493   GNP/iCAPITA      C)          t)    tACA         t(t2)
_   (5)  ()       (3)            4)          C)(         (6")      (         S)        (9)       (10)        (1)         (52       (13)    (54
-I AS TO            -. -.              --                              ,     -         --
QST  1042 0b   e35b    3.1          7.1       38   40   22      77b      72       62         25        8.0         6s          iS       57       4.<0
iUtSt4            at   t50 5b    520      2.1         9.3       70   24    6      11       98       61         31       11.0          74         27       16       13.0
KffA              82    ". lb 91 663b    7.7         20.6        "    34  31      96                O 98       43       19.0          98         84       18      tl.80
IPAUYStA           4 U   t.2b  s,S7ob    6.1         16.         l99  430r  59'    701     973       97        2*6       55.w         8          12       t2        4.00
PAUA N.C.         $1     3.0'   620       5.4        19.0       40   12   22      -        60        71'       15t      15.0         )3          I333     I7I       1.00
PN5ILSPPtNIS      79    49, 3b    69b    2.84        14.0       GO   36   -       7b       84        6         31         7.5         S9         5S       16       21.00
1INGA6106         80      .4   4,4*20     2.7         6.7        39   40   16     el       92       ft2       31 I         .8         96         9$        3*       S.00
SOLOU  I          82     0.2b    640      6.6P'      14,0b      41   34   20      5S       78       80         22       10.         4O          20        tS       2.50
TISulAAND         8*2   490b    80ob    3.4          20.3       59   14   50    86b    l5l           68        21        9.'          44         46        s        4*.00
WCI,01    J        9    9O.3b      90  t.lP I        10.Sa  11         17  20     22b      63?       --        S3          .6         -          14       21        1.4l
,M55A5            t0     1.2       80     3.6        11.0       -t--        -              10 12     --        --- *                  -_- _ 
IYtlA              7   6159.6    *It0 o    .9         99              -    -      16       79Y      -          A I                               2X         _ S      .30t
XPASL             8*        b    I0 b*.14            --- '-                       19       70        -         38       --            __         251       3        I. Yo
PAKSTAN           82    816    38 b    2.0            7,0        38   20   24     22       SO       41         30        5.9          96         2'        15       3.00
AIConA.IISTAN     77    53. AN,                       3.1       47    t 9 is       2       lIbC      49       l3b                     62    f             22by      s. oO
ALGERIA           79    18.3 1 1 7O       3".'       12.3        34' *6' 25to              i 531     495       17        *.0         9$5         29Y      26        3*.70
E5t t             82    43.3P    690'   4.69          7.9        31' 99' 26*    44         795       *05       34'       9.8          334        41' IS    I       17.00
-ItCa             76     9.3   4.140      2.6         0.6l b     17   26   21     -        g7b7      -         29b       6.2?                     q 79    27bb       17.8Gby
IRAN              79     6.49      *       .757      54.507     -     -     -  _ 0        Il"                  3.'         x                     44*3     *4'       4.907y
IRAO              79    12.6   2.710      4.3y        6.9'?     -    -    -       -       loop                 2*5         1-               Q     41'    2          9.3043'
IElAND                   3.4b  4,44O      6.3"       11.8"7     -    -    -       9        93       94         29         _     _    98           5       154      11.00
imam             8s1     2.2b  1.420b   '4.9         10.2        19   44   18    7Ob       $7         s        312      15.1          -          s7       38        8.90
5.1AMON           79     2.3     -        -          1.647   -_  ---- -_           _       96                 159       -                        46X        _      2.80'?
864   21.8     6710b    b.or       22.9       38   43   19      is       i5t       9         3    5   91.5                     144      3a8       .9Ot
l                 89     I. tb 6  9tb    3 2           IS.O     --- --             0b?     7145      69'       2I'      -             90           '       148     ..
908T0581.         79     9,9 8t060        3.6        22.2   5 0   28  11          78       97   : 0            59*      12.8         88'         49x       I7?      8. 30
-R14118           78    22.5   2,100      3.92        6.2X      -    ._  ._    98            b      _33b                __            6           4bx     *2b      lo.Gob
SPAIN             76    37.0  4*920       2. t       56.0        -   -             -        86        -        29b                     -767by             -        *24.50b
5354              78     8.6  15,570      4.46       10.1       19   is   286   s5          b        90        39b       _            69         4Ib      21b    152.80
tUNISIA           79     6.4   5.10       7.0p       19.0        42   39  to      46b      500'      i0        39b       12.8         30        ]3X        10       6.00
tult*             831    47.   1.230      3.         156.2      50   22   24      73b     ItO        7         3 1       6.0          SS         26       11        8.00
Vow   ..          80     6.8    420       5.0a       12.0       94    7    I      2jb      17         Y        3187     67.0         as           3       20        5.50
YN P.D8.          82     3.0b    42Gb    7.6          9.7       63   54    8'   53         61        34        2S       22.0'         46         11       20        2.10
55 3  Po0 IUELtPIN  CoNulttI.
t of CouatteO:                          84             93      10  69    7       81       92       68         95       65           7I          91       88      85
Usages                                  (.4-          C.1-  (23-  (8-  0-    (8.        (12-      (1*-       (57-     (1.4-         (10-       (1-      (8-      (0.03-
10.0)         94.3)  94)   46)  33)    99)      119)     99)         77)      67.0)        100)        84)      48)     29.0)
alQattle.t Uppters                        .6          21.7    S5   36  22        81       95        80        43        20           87         47        26      11.0
tadians                       4.0          16.1     43   Zs   i9      93       6)       61         39       13           69          26       22        3.7
stams                         3.0          11.0       8  21   13    23         60      3i          24        9           40          14       19       1.0
04etile bvietloni                        5.3            9.4    6.5  7    4.9   28.0     19.0      22.5       7.0       9.6         23.9       t6.9       3.S       9.0
iAtti                                    4.4           17.0     46  28   i8    53         76        59        36        16           62         31        21       6.9
Stanard lMtitions                        1.9           6.7      12   10    7     t9       27        U4        it        13           27         21         7       7.4
lsdian                                   4.0          16.0      4)  28   19      93       83        61        3s        11           69         *6        22       9.7
SYU4OUs                                                              700?0?I8
-    Dotl l vAtLae                                                     A * 06T591 n30  TO BASt YS8t              S - 9131591? 0r  eCCATION (otg) aUL
. AGNITrU     NIL 0C ox LICIG8I                                   a * 0SU11.I .0  RICK? t*    BASE YEAS     T * mgO AND SlAtE Gov   tmu   OIII
7 I DATUM QUIOALU                                                      N * CU051't PRICKS                        w * PUSIUC EXmIltURWl OU.
*    INCLUUS PFART-TtlO stu2un                                         e -St ClISLUENT RAttO                     X * 1t05C.S OVER-AGZ STUETS
r * cAos Ess coLIt   RATIO                T - UNESCO SOURcnS
P * COP
SOURCE8S        Colmum  I end 2: World Seak Atlas of Iducattio  sector ISMd dieian.
Colans 3 to 14* Vorld took Gdcetiod n.ter dissoo.a GOavemat sorce" sndlor the Uneso Statltestc ls*rbock.
Copertive  ducttion at. are  oseful tn tbo evaluation of vuto se  ducqtitn systees and oaslsto of relativ  stots"  of oducatlonal 4avlopwnt betosn vatrifs
centries.   owev,r. on ths bet1S of tbe preseot dote. crose-aettioel edep ti o b should be approached with groat cautton.  bet  presented in tbs  bove  table have
be  n collected largely by Ssnk *eiaei1n4 fro  SoWstflt Caurcs; the resainder are staff Ietimles or daota ferom  steo.  Eforts hvoe boae code to stendardise
dot aittos and. withia  timits. to ebsek lb  accuracy Of the date.  NOWvethalasa. euch 4dte are still tpenrfoct to sevra  respect. *ad the Bnk ts workiag to
topro  tbhe  progresaeivly on the occesion of its opnratteall work.  In tho  ure of th40e  ataO the followng qualtfticloati     hould be kept to  mdId
(I)    Uuce"ton  as dfeined tn the table includs all educetion and tratnina, both touol and n-faoruxl.
(2)   *Pritary  education voters to eduatien at the firtt level nd  n caendaz   educatioa  Were  to all education at the Secondary lee  re*grdloss of type
(e.g. Isnennl. technitcl. egriCutUIrA1).
(3)    Utaracy rstex  (cal. 6) ear often obtatad treO  country cenua4ee.  tn Sny countries thea Ste only spproimittan  and it ts doubtful that eny uanitoe
detitntion of 'Ittoneai   be bee  followed consistently.
(4)   'Public expenditure tn edue tion  (cols. 4 nd S) ref   to *11 c1nt1l and  OcuTrn,t *apendlturs devoted to education by pubLitc and quasl-pubitc
agenies.
(O)  'Enrollment ratioUe  (clel. 7. 12 and 54) reftr to echool yest and are the percentage of sllalble children earolled full-time  n the appropriate -school.
pubitc Nd privets by leve.  ITey are often subjeot to s wde _sraqt  of error in the developing counties owing to variations i  the aceutrcy of bati
da6t  (I.a..    -pecittfc popultion sad  *erollsata).  Earollsnt figuro  ttf      nly are hither then the no ber of students ectually In schol.
OWer-4agd stounnt  _y be Secluded in 1g5  tn iu      ad can Inflate the rateo.



- 32 -                                     ANNEU  2.1
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPENENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
ORGANIGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION/ORGANIG   lIST!.   L 'EDUCATION
*~~~ W
uJ
w~~~
l {H~~l
Li 



-33                                 ANNEX 2.2
STRUCTURE DES ENSEIGNEMENTS SECONDAIRE ET SUPERIEUR/       Page 1 of 2
DETAILED STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Higher Education/
Ens. sup6rieur
Upper Secondary/                    ---     U.B.
Second cycle secondaire
ISA
Sect. LM & Sc    2) 
I - - -~rITAu
, 2{3             4               2  ESCO
E.F.I.                    E.J.
Lower Secondary/                      A.SP.             .                EP.J.
Premier cycle seconduire
;{         Cyle croriontat{on
3     1)    Tehia  Euain                                         EXF-Fa
Ens techn. moyen (A3)
; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ecoledes T.P.
En. prof. (A4)/Voc. Training                             -T.S
< E ~~~~~~FS.T.AL
_ ~~~~~~~E.T.GL
~~~~~~~E.T.&A.
Volr paeg eavante
la hgwfo/                                               LT.A.t
des sigles utiII6a 
See uext page                           ~~~~~~~Medical Ins titute/
English translation                                      Instltut m6dlcW
of abbreviations.
~~~~~~~~~E.EN.T.
* I
ENP.
G~~~~~~~CF.P.T.
2         ~~~~E. A
1) -Concos naal /National exam.
2) -Test natonal /National Test                           . GF.V.Ak



- 34 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 2 of 2
SiQnification des siules utilis6s
UB                 Universit6 du Burundi/University of Burundi
ISA                Institut Sup6rieur d'Agriculture/Agricultural Instituto
of Higher Education
ISTAU              Institut Sup6rieur des Techniciens de l'Amenagement du
Territoire et de l'Urbanisme/Hligher Education Institute
for Regional and Urban Planning
ESCO               Ecole Supdrieure de Commerce/Higher Institute for Trade
and Commerce
EJ                 Ecole de Journalisme/School of Journalism
EPJ                Ecole de Police Judiciaire/Judiciary School
,FI                Ecole de Forpation des Instituteurs D6/Teacher Training
College
4 AP               4e annee padagogique/Education Specialization
ECOSO              Ecole Sociale/}nstitute for Social Workers
.EEFA              Ecole Normale d'Economie FamilialeIHome Economics
Teacher Training School
GETO & TP          Ecole des Techniciens g4ometres et topographes et des
Travaux Publics/Technical Institute of Survey and
Topography and Public Works
ITS                Ecole Technique Secondaire/Technical Secondary School
ESTA               Ecole Secondaire des Techniques Administratives/School
of Administration
ETG                Ecole Technique de Gestion/Management School
ETSA               Ecole Technique Secondaire d'Art/Technical Secondary
School for Arts
ITAB               Institut Technique Agricole du Burundi/Agricultural
Institute of Burundi
ENT                Ecole Nationale des T4l4communications/School for
Telecommunications
UNP                Ecole Nationale des Postes/National Postal Service
Institute
EA                 Ecole d'Agriculture/Agricultural School
CFVA               Centre de Formation des Vulgarisateurs
Agricoles/Training Center for Agricultural Extension
Workers
CFPTAM              Centre de Formation du Personnel Technique de
l'Aeronautique et de la Meteorologie/Training Center for
Personnel of Aeronautics and Meteorology
EnseiRnement Suydrieur Universitaire
Lee divers etablissements figurent dans l'organigramme ci-dessus
et constituent les six premiers des sigles utilises.
Se reporter aux points 7.1 et 7.2 pour une description des
differentes filiares.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2.3
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDIIREPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
STATISTICS ON STUDENT ENROLLMENTS AND ON STAFFING.
COST AND FINCANCING OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM/
STATISTIQUES SUR LES ETUDIANTS. LE PERSONNEL.
LES COUTS ET LE FINANCEMENT DU SYSTEME D'EDUCATION
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1     Enrollments by level, 1980/81 - 1986/87
Table 2     Enrollments in primary schools, public and private, 1983/84 -
1986/87
Table 3     Enrollments in public primary schools by sex and grade, 1986/87
Table 4     Primary education: internal efficiency indicators, 1982/83 -
1985/86
Table 5     Population, 7-12, enrollments in primary education (numbers and
rates), by provinces and sex, 1985/86 - 1986/87
Table 6     Primary school teachers by qualification and provinces, 1986/87
Table 7     Number of schools, classrooms and pupils by classroom in
primary education, by provinces, 1985/86
Table 8     Enrollments in public and private secondary education (general
and teacher training) by type, cycle and sex, 1984/85
Table 9     Enrollments in public secondary education (general and teacher
training) by grade, 1984/85 - 1986/87
Table 10    Enrollments in public secondary technical education by type and
cycle, 1985/86
Table 11    Repetition rates in secondary education, 1984/85
Table 12    Secondary school graduates by main stream of study and level,
1984
Table 13    Boarding rates in secondary schools, 1984/85 - 1986/87
Table 14    Teaching and administrative staff in secondary education,
1984/85
Table 15    Ernollments in higher education by field of study, 1984/85,
1986187
Table 16    Higher education: actual and theoretical number of years for
completion of main cycles of study, 1985186
Table 17    Repetition rates in higher education, 1985/86
Table 18    Full time teaching staff in University, by nationality and
field of study, 1986/87
Table 19    MOE's current budget by level (in absolute terms), 1982-87
Table 20    MOE's current budget by level (in Z), 1982-87
Table 21    GNP, Government and MOE current budgets, 1982-87



TABL 1
BURUNDI: Enrollments by level. 1980/81 - 1986/87
Effectifa par niveau 1980/81 - 1986187
Annual
Growth
1980-81/
80-81     81-82     82-83      83-84       84-85     8-5-86    86-87    1986-87
Primary
(private &
public)        168,314   180,290   252,973   301,278    343,027   385,936  450,903        17.8
Secondary
(public only)   16,808   16,532       17,492    19,364      20,573    22,549   24,910       6.9
General & TT   14,773   14,348       14,944    16,385      17,547    19,340   21,364       6.3
Voc. & Tech.
(MEN only)      2,035    2,184       2,548      2,979      3,026      3,209    3,546       9.7
University       1,793    1,900       1,828     2,353       2,511     2,783    2,912       8.4
Source: MEN                                                                                                     U



37 -                                    ANNEX 2.3
TAB.B 2                             Page 2 of 15
B=MI: Snrolluents In Ptjmmry Schools, Public and Privalt, 1983/84 - 1986/87
Effectifs dous 1e primar., Etablisents publics et-priv&, 1983/84 - 1986/87
83-84      84-85       85-86        86-87
Public         295,061    337,329    381,150       446,609
Private          6,217       5,698      4,786        4,294
Total         301,278    343,027    385,936       450,903
Source: WSN
TABLE 3
BURUNDI: Enrollments In Public Primary Schools
by sex and grade, 1986-87
Effectife danm lea ecoles primaires publigues selon le oexe et la classe, 1986-87
Memo Item
girls as a I
of all in
1986/87                                      1984/85
Girls as a X
Boys            Girls           All               of All
1           62,499          50,865          113,364              44.9                 43.8
2           47,860           37,095          84,955              43.7                 41.8
3           41,589           31,769          73,358              43.3                 40.8
4           38,374           27,661          66,035              41.9                 39.0
5           38,587           25,256       1 63,843               39.6                 38.0
6            27,757          17,367          45,124              38.5                 38.2
All         256,596         190,013         446,609              42.5                  41.0
Source: MEN, R8alisations du Ministare de l'Education Nationale en matiare d'enseignement de
base, formel et non formel. Mars 1987.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 3 of 15
TABLE 4
BURUNDI: Internal EffICienc Indicators
in Primary Education, 198U/83, 1985/86
Indicateurs d'efficacitg interne dans l'enseige eut priraire, 1982/83, 1985/86
1982/83                       1985/86
Entering rate                                   61.3                           61.7
Ist grade: - repetition rate                 19.6                          15.1
- promotion rate                  74.3                          76.5
2nd grade: - repetition rate                 14.8                          15.2
- promotion rate       1          83.1                          78.6
3rd grade; - repetition rate                 17.2                          16.6
- promotion rate                  80.3                          78.9
4th grade: - repetition rate                 20.7                          23.8
- promotion rate                  77.4                          79.4
5th grade: - repetition rate                 32.0                          28.8
- promotion rate                  69.3                          75.0
6th grade: - repetition rate                 40.7                          32.7
- promotion rate                    _
- rate of success
at graduation                   68.4                          63.7
Source: from MEN, Rkalisations du Ministare de l'Education Nationale en -itiare d'enseignement
de base, formel et non formel. Mars 1987.



-39-
ANNEX 2.3
Page 4 of 15
TALE S
URUNIz Poplation, 7-12. enroltetnts in Pr10ary Education, by province and sex,
1985-16  186-I
Population 7-12 an, effectifs et tao de scotarisation dans to primaire par province et sex,A
(1)                 (2)                    (3)                    (4)                    (5)
Popul. 7-12         enrottrents      girts as ax of total      enrotlment rates        enrolltnt rates
estin. jan 1986         1985-86          enrollments 1985-86           1985-86               1986487
SUBANZA
boys          15214                8998                                          59.1
girls         14983                5038                  35.9X                   33.6
all           30198               14036                                          46.5                    52.5
BUJUMBURA
boys          42172               27830                                          66.0
girts         41514               21780                  43.9X                   52.5
alt           83686               49610                                          59.3                   62.6
sURURI
boys          29663               26865                                          90.6
girls         30079               17218                  39.1X                   57.2
att           59r42               44083                                          73.8                   83.1
CANKUZO
boys          10118                7314                                          72.3
girls         10249                5608                  43.4S                   54.7
att           20368               12922                                          63.4                   68.4
CI8ITOKE
boys          18029               11999                                          66.6
girls         18079                7353                  38.0:                   40.?
all           36108               19352                                          53.6                   61.1
GITEGA
boys          39309               23322                                          59.3
girls         40572               19749                  45.9X                   48.7
aLl           79881               43071                                          53.9                   59.7
KARUZI
boys          19351                9453                                          48.9
girls         20001                7223                  43.31                   36.1
all           39352               16676                                          42.4                   47.9
KAYANZA
boys          32302               15414                                          47.7
girts         33523               12636                  45.0X                   37.7
all           65825               28050                                          42.6                   49.0
KIRUNDO
boys          27938               14016                                          50.2
girls         28836                9283                  39.8t                   32.2
all           56774              23299                                           41.0                   4?.4
MAKANDA
boys          11964               9613                                           80.3
girls         11846               5680                   37.1:                   48.0
all           23810               15293                                          64.2                   76.0
MURMWYA
boys          30730               2344?                                          76.3
girls         32089               17529                  42.8:                   54.6
all           62819              40976                                           65.2                   72.8
F.UYIN6A
boys          23702               13220                                          55.8
girts         24302               9556                   42.02                   39.3
atl           48004              22776                                           47.4                   54.8
NGOZI
boys          35282               12769                                          36.2
girts         36522              10058                   44.1X                   27.5
aLl           71803              22827                                           31.8          -        38.7
RUTMAN
boys          13693               8074                                           59.0
girls         13858               4192                   34.2X                   30.2
all           27551              12266                                           44.5                   50.6
RUYIGI
boys          15872               10160                                          64.0
girls         16004               7059                   41.0X                   44.1
all           31876              17219                                           54.0                   60.3
TOTAL
boys         365340              222494                                          60.9
girls        372457              159962                  41.8X                   42.9
all          737797              382456                                          51.8                   58.4
Source: MEN and Mission



- 40 -                             ANNEX 2.3
Page 5 of 15
TAbLE 6
BURUNDI: Primary School teachers by qualification and provinces, 1986-87
Mattres dans l'eoseignement primalre, par qualification et par province, 1986-87
Proportion of        Student/
Qualified      Underqualified                  underqualified        teacher
teachers            teachers         all             teachers       ratio
BUBANZA            238                  28             266           10.5%               62
BUJUMBURA          948                 175            1123           15.6%               49
BUXURI             715                 112             827           13.5%               61
CANKUSO            209                  49             258           19.0%               55
CIBITOKE           303                  48             351           13.7%               65
GITEGA             692                 135             827           16.3%               60
KARUZI             261                  24             285            8.4%               69
KAYANZA            419                  62             481           12.9%               69
KIRUNDO            353                  40             393           10.2%               71
MAKAMBA            221                  25             246           10.2%               76
NURAMVYA           599                 153             752           20.3%               63
MUYINGA            340                  38             378           10.1%               72
NGOZI              377                  56             433           12.9%               66
RUTANA             201                  44             245           18.0%               59
RUYIGI             248                  73             321           22.7%               63
TOTAL         6124                 1062           7186           14.8%               62
Note: Qualified teachers - D7, D6, D4
Unqualified teachers - D3, EAP and other
Source: from MOE, Document National d'Information en vue de l'laboration d'un plan integre
dt6limination de l'analphabetisme, mars 1987.



41 -                           ANNEX 2.3
Page 6 of 15
TABLE 7
BURUNDI: Number of schools, classrooms and pupils by class room
in primary education by provinces, 1985/86
Nombre d'&coles, de salles de classe, et d'Glaves par salle dans l'enseignement
primaire, selon la province, 1985/86
Number of                           Number of classrooms   Number of pupils by
schools    Number of classrooms           by school              classroom
BUBANZA            38                  213                     5.6                65.9
BUJUMBURA          98                  742                     7.6                6b.9
BURURI            131                  700                     5.3                63.0
CANKUSO            38                  233                     6.1                55.5
CIBITOKE           57                  301                     5.3                64.3
GITEGA             93                  687                     7.4                62.7
KARUZI             57                  270                     4.7                61.8
KAYANZA            66                  428                     6.5                65.5
KIRUNDO            69                  354                     5.1                65.8
MAKAMBA            44                  221                     5.0                69.2
MURAMVYA           98                  621                     6.3                66.0
HUYINGA            60                  338                     5.6                67.4
NGOZI              62                  395                     6.4                57.8
RUTANA             43                  219                     5.1                56.0
RUYIGI             54                  281                     5.2                61.3
TOTAL        1008                  6003                     6.0                63.7
Source: MEN



TABLE 8
BURUNDI: Enrollments in public and private secondary education
(general and teacher trainig) by type, cycle and sex, 1984-85
Effectifs dans ltenseignement secondaire public et privg (g4nfral et normal), selon le type
d'ftablisse,ent, le cycle d'6tude et le sexe, 1984-85
PUBLIC +
PUBLIC                PRIVATE   PRIVATE
General          Teacher Training                 All                                           I
Ecoles de Formation
Lycees                    des Institeurs +
+      Enseignement        Enseignoment
Colleges     Normal           Pedagogique
enrollments   7,289         1,753             4,011           13,053  1,412      14,465
1t cycle
% girls        26.0          36.1              56.3             37.4   47.8        37.8
enrollments   2,476         1,044               974            4,494    213       4,707
2nd cycle
% girls        24.5          40.3              47.6             33.2   30.0        33.0
enrollments   9,765         2,797             4,985           17,547  1,625      19,172
Total                                                                        
% girls        25.6          37.6              54.6             35.8   45.4        36.6                  0 g
~-4
0S
Source: from MEN, Statistical Yearbook, 1984-85



TABLE 9
BURUNDI: Enrollments in public secondary education (general and teacher training),
by grade, 1984/85, 86/87
Effectifs dans 1'enseignement secondaire public (gEnEral et normal), selon le cycle d 'tude et la
classe, (1984/85, 1986187
1984/85                       1985/86                       1986/87
Teacher                       Teacher   I                   Teacher
Generala/ Training /  All   Generala/ Training /  All   Generala/ Traininge/   All
1St cycle                     7,289      5,764    13,053   8,800       6,416    15,216  12,189       5,396    17,585
18t grade (7e)           2,624      1,6.46     4,270   3,072      1,856      4,928   3,905       1,730     5,635
2nd grade (8e)            2,056     1,501      3,551   2,495       1,753     4,248   3,185       1,447     4,632
3rd grade (ge)            1,403     1,349      2,752   1,855       1,494     3,349   2,779       1,284     4,063
4th grade (10e)           1,206     1,268      2,474   1,378       1,313     2,691   2,320         935      3,255
2nd cycle                     2,476      2,018     4,494   2,508       1,616      4,124   2,990      1,028      4,018
Total                         9,765      7,782    17,547  11,308       8,032    19,340  15,179       6,424    21,603
Source: MOE, Department of Planning and Department of Secondary and Technical Education ("Reflexions sur
l'Enseignement Secondaire G6neral et PMdagogique", Mars 1987)
a/   lycges and colleges
V'/   Ecoles de Formation des Instituteurs (EFI) and Enseignement Normal
c/   Ecoles de Formation des Instituteurs (EFI)
* aD 
0. 
U'-



44-                                          ANNEX  2.3
Page 9 of 15
tABLE 10
BURUNDI: Enrollments in public aecondary technical education
by type and cycle. 1983-8M*
Effectifsa done 1 enseignfement aecoudaire technique b~ ty    d 'Itablissement
et niveau d'Etude, 1955-a6
A4         A3          A2          ALL
1st cycle            582       1,561         -          2,143
2nd cycle             -          188       2,619        2,807
All    -          582        1,749      2,619        4,950
* Includes schools runned by the MEN sa vell as by other ministries
Sources MEN, Department of Planning
TABLE 11
BURUNDI: Repetitions In SecondarY Educatlon  1984-85
Redoublenents dans l'enseignement secondalre, 1W9-A8
number of     Z of
enrollments   repeaters   repeaters
Public                              9,765        1,031        10.6
Lycees                            7,451          809        10.9
Collages                          2,314          204         8.8
Private
EAUUCER TRAINUW                       7,782          701         9.1
Enselgnement Noriml                 2,797          271         9.7
Ecoles de Formation des
Instituteurs                     4,985          436          8.8
Tn CAuICL  a/                         3,026          235          7.8
AZ                                  1,449          114         7.9
A3 + A4                             1,571          121         7.7
s/ schools under MEN only
Source: from HEN, Statistical Yearbook



- 45 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 10 of 15
AtJNKX 2.3
TABLE 12
BURUNDI: Secondary school graduates by main stream of study, and level, 1985
Sortants de ienseignoment secondaire par principales tilLres et par niveau, 1985
General and Teacher TraininR                                     Technical and Vocational
General (public + private), I t cycle        1,140                  MEN       A2            498
*  *  *.  2nd cycle     623                            A3, A4         22
Teachler training, i2  cycle                   963                  other NInistrieM        289
-         "   22d cycle                   655                   All                  1009
Total, jSt cycle                            2,103
Total, 2nd cycle                             1,278
All                                          3.381
Total graduates, secondary schools - 4.390
Source: fron MEN, statistical yearbook
TABLE 13
BURUNDI: Boarding rates In secondary schools 1984/85-1986/87
Taux d'internat dans le secondaire 1984185-1986/87
Number of boarders             Boarding Rate
1984/85     1985/86      1986/87          1986/87
General and Teacher Tralnig        14,80g       15,528       18,098             84.7
TechaLcal and Vocational             ..          2,881        3,047             85.9
Sources HEN, DP
TABLE 14
BURUNDI: Teaching and Administrative Staff In Secondary Education/
Personnel enselgnant et admdnistratif dana 16enseigoement aecondaire, 1984/85
Adm. staff
T&aching Staff      ao         Administrative   Teaching
Number       Zxpatriates        Staff         Staff (2)
General, public                           595          38.0              245             41.2
General, private                          104          82.7               20             19.2
Teacher Training                          465          35.5              225             48.4
Technical, HEN                            325          38.8              116             35.7
Technical, other ministries               119          25.2               65             54.6
TOTAL                                   1,608          39.4              671             41.7
Sources   H£N, Statistical yearbook.



- 46 -                       ANNEX 2.3
Page 11 of 15
TABLE 15
BURUNDI: Enrollments in Higher Education by field of study,
1984/85, 1986/87
Effectifa dans 1l'enseignemnt supfrieur, pEr filiares, 1984/85, 1986/87
1984/85         1986/87
UNIVERSITY                             2,076             2,236
Law                                    266               222
Economics & Management                 228               253
Liberal Arts & Psychology              661               630
Sciences a/                            538               548
Teacher Training b/                    191               290
School of Medicine                     192               194
Agronomy & Applied Sciences             -                 99
INSTITUTES                               435               6/6
School of Business (ESCO)              224               38/
Other                                  211               289
TOTAL STUDENTS IN BURUNDI              2,511             2,912
Overseas scholarship                   962               968
TOTAL HIGHER EDUCATION                 3,473             3,880
a/ Includes the Institut de Techniciens Superieurs, and Pharmacy.
b/ IP (Institut P4dagogique) and IEPS (Institut d'Education Physique
et Sportive)
Source: from MOE, Statistical Yearbook and J-B. Rasera (1987).



- 47 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 12 of 15
TABLE 16
BURUNDI - Actual and theoretical number of student-years
necessary for graduation, by field of study in ui. her education, 1985-86
Nombre d'ann6es-6l8ves rEellement et th6oriquwment n4cessaires
pour produire un diplom£, selon la filiare, 1985/86
2 years       4 years      5 years       6 years
degrees       degrees      degrees       degrees
(Candidature)   (Licence)   (Ingeneer)        (MD)
UNIVERSITY
Law                3   (1.5)    6.1 (1.5)
Psychology &
Education         3.7 (1.8)    5.9 (1.5)
Liberal Arts       3.1 (1.6)    5.6 (1.4)
Economics          4.7 (2.3)    6.9 (1.7)
Sciences           5.7 (2.8)   11.3 (2.8)
Polytechnique B   9.7 (4.8)
Agronomy                                      9.5 (1.9)
Applied Sience
(Pol. B)                                    15.8 (3.2)
Medecine                                                    10.0 (1.6)
INSTITUTES
ESCO               2.6 (1.3)
ISA                              4.9 (1.2)
ISTAU                            4.4 (1.1)
a) in parenthesis: actual/theoretical number of years.
Source: from J-B. Rasera 1987



ANNEX 2.3
Page,13 of 15
TAILE 17
IDNUNDI - Bepetiltion rates in Higher Education, 1985/86
TOMU de redoublement dans 1l'eseignement supdrieur, 1985/86
lt        2nd       3rd       4th      5th       6th
UNIVmITY
Law              40          13        21        10       -         -
Psychology &
Education       25           9          1        2       -        -
Liberal Arts     34           7         4         2       -         -
Economics        44          39         2         3       -        -
Sciences a/      32          34         4        13       -        -
Agronomy          16         29         16       13       6         -
Applied
Sciences        15          31        36         7       0        0
ITS              42           0         0         -       -        -
Nedecine         25          28        19         3       5         2
ESCO             22          12         -         -       -        -
ISA              47          10         5         -
ISTAU             3          21         0         0
a/ Departments of Biology, Chemistry and Mining
b/ Polytechnique B
Source: from J-B. Rasera, 1987



- 49 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 14 of 15
TABLE 18
BURUNDI: Fulltiime teaching staff in University, by nationality and field of study
Enseigats A plein temps & l'Universit4,   r nationalitO et par filire, 1986/87
Barundese                Expatriates          Total
Law                                      8                          1                 9
Psychology                               9                          _                 9
Liberal Arts                            20                         15                35
Economics                               15                          7                22
Sciences                                34                         26                60
Education (I.P)                          8                         11                19
liedical                                15                          8                23
ITS                                      _                         10                10
Agronomy                                 4                          6                10
Applied Sciences                         9                         12                21
Physical Education                       6                         _                  6
TOTAL                 128                         96               224
Source: RASERA, 1987



- 50 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page fS of 15
TABLE 19
BURUNDI: Nin1stry of Education Currentbud,get, 1982-87 (in thousands of current FOU)
Budget Ordinaire du HEN, 1982-87 (en mitliers de FOU courants)
1987
1982     1983        1984       1985      1986        (estimation)
Primary                 1001172   1089124   1206730    1440443   1685318           1 858 895
Secondary general and
teacher training        633291    640546    671200       763769    806890           900 956
Secondary technical      136733    187379    231664       267719    299097           304 449
Higher                   412430    531954    543262       630318    849419           881 000
Non format                31846      36455      40425       46534     55728           58 539
General administration   24001       23229      24746       56316     72489           88 356
TOTAL                   2239473   2508687   2718027    3205099   3768941           4 092 195
Source: from MEN
TABLE 20
BURUNDI: Ministry of Education Current Budget, 1982-87 (in percentage)
Budget ordinaire du MEN, 1982-87 (en Z)
1987
1982     1983        1984       1985      1986        (estimation)
Primary                  44.7%      43.4%       44.4%     44.9%      44.7%           45.4X
Secondary general and
teacher training        28.3%      25.5%       24.7%     23.8%      21.4%           22.0%
Secondary Technical       6.1%       7.5%        8.5%      8.4%       7.9%            7.4%
Higher                   18.4%      21.2%       20.0%     19.7%      22.5%           21.5%
Non format                1.4%       1.5%        1.5%       1.5%      1.5%            1.4Z
General administration   1.1%        0.9X        0.9%       1.8%      1.9%            2.2%
TOTAL                   100.0%    100.0%       100.0%    100.0%    100.0%           100.0%
Source: from MEN
TABLE 21
DRUNDX: GNP, Government Current 8udget and Ministry of Education Current Budget, 1982-87 (in
-illions of current FBU)
PNB, Budget ordinaire du Gouvernement et du MEN (millions 1982-87 de FBU courants)
1987
1982     1983        1984       1985      1986        (estimation)
GNP                      89557      97922      115998    126133    136377
Government current
budget a/               11224      12022       14462     16719      18105          20 449
MEN current budget        2240       2509        2718      3205       3769            4092
Percentages
MEN cur.bdgt/gov.cur.
bdgt.                   20.0%      20.9%       18.8%     19.2%      20.8%            20.0
MEN cur.bdgt/GNP          2.5        2.6         2.3        2.5       2.8
a/ Government Current Budget: total
Ordinary Budget - Amortization of Public Debt
Source: from Wortd Bank, Burundi Country Economic Memorandum, 1987.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2.4
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPENENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
MAIN TOPICS OF THE EDUCATION REFORM/
PRINCIPAUX POINTS DE LA REFORME DANS LE SECTEUR DE L'EDUCATION
A. PBttIAIS                      . B  SECOtIUE                 C. SECONDAIURE dNIQVt             0. SgPgRglEV
1. Planification             (t) Etudes de macro at           (i) Ctudee macro et            (t) Stude.  our leupioi de
micro plenitctation              ictro-planiticetions          mantate   craer len toilares
(rendeents internee, Coate    orientation dm  eorttnts         corr epondantoeg
et tinoncoment. sise on         du lor cyele;                  (it) Colleete des donnies
place de Is pletne              (It) Collette de donfdto       statistiques;
tnecrtptton, contrtbution a    statistiques:                   (tit) Mite on place dietudes
Ia rdactton du plan             (ii) Prdparstton d'une        de suivt des sortante.
quttinquennal;                  carte ditmplantatitn des
(it) Collecte des dondeos       Cos.
stattatiques;
(Itit) Preparation de la
carte *colaire.
2. Adintstration             (i) Au niveau central:           (i) Niveau centrals           (t) Nivtou Central:               (t) Dlrection Cendrtle d
Direction crndrale de           Ditrection C nErale do         Dtrection de 1'Eneigntasmnt         n lPtntgneoent Sup*rteur
t'ducatton do Base et           l'Entetgnenent Secondatr      Teocnique;
Directton de lP'nseignemont    et Technique et Direction    (ti) Infpecteure do
Priatire;                       de l'Enaseoignent              llnaeigoent Techntque
(it) CrUition de                Secondstre Ceniral at          (tit) Bureau d'Etudea pour
inapecttonn  rigionales et      NorInal,                       P gnitgn_et T ehntque
de _   tnspections              (tt) 13 inspecteure            (BNT);
cantonsles;                     gdnuraux de
(tit) I birecteur d'deolo       l'ensotgnement
pour onvitron 10 a 12           secondaire;
classes.                        (tit) Dtrectours de CO
(bor cycle) et proviseurs
(2lim cycle);
(tv) Bureau do lmducatton       (iv) Bureau d'Etudes pour
Burale (BER).                   I'Pn"esgneaent Secondatre
(BEPES).
3. Ptsenceuent               (t) A Is charg  do Budgjt.       (i) A Is chsrbe do            (1) Etats votr ensignoenet        (t) Statt construction,
de l'Sttts  saltire,            Budget do l'Statn econdatir  g&n&rsig t;                            aten. quitpent.
astdtiel pddagogique,           slairee. conts.ructiona,       (tt) Coemunautt Ide"             eatrtteon; bouren";
ertaineos constructions et      mobtiter, iquipemnt.           (iti) Parentst idea.              (ti) hivest trets do
mobilier;                       boursee d'internst;                                              ecolartd, materiel
(Iti) A ts charge des           (it) Communautfe:                                               pddagogtqua at
coamunsutis: certaines          dntrteten trio parttel:                                          romboutseant de i'eapru
constructtons, ontretien;       (Iti) Parents: Nineryal                                         do l'Etat.
(itti) Cotteation annuelle      (4,501W), documente
des parentst actuellement       pEdagogiques mt frat
2l0P.                           dlinternat.
4. Effetils                  (t) Objectift: Plaine            (t) Toux de profetton du       (t) Augentatton des ratioa       (t) Regsoupowent de
inscription des enfants de      priemtre au ler cycle          4laves/profeeeure                filtoene A considiror;
7 an. en 1987/88; pletno        secondatre et du let so       tidtipensable;                    (it) Augmntatton doe
tnacriptton su primatro en    2lie cycle A deterniner;         (it)  ffitcatitd Interne a       rattoi  livet/profetstur
1992/93;                        (ti) Augmentatton des         audltonr.                         urgente.
(it) Introductton du            ratios Elives/profeeaeure
double-flux des Elives           indispensable;
tarmitne en 1988/89;            (itt) eondeant Interne a
Ciii) Augentation  senstble    consid6rer.
des ratios dEtvee/mattre
A ls suite de l'adoption do
double flux;
(iv) 21Eductton du taux de
redoubleent.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2.4
Page 2 of 2
5. ftPerol enoitat           (i) Objoettlt Cheque inttre    (t) Accent intn  ur la           (t) Fornetton a 1i'trtng.r        (t) ftfort do tcrumes
onoeige A d ux flux             fotnatton pdqpgtque dee    sue boure dr ftoetont                 do cadres locaus pour
d'GlIvesg                       prote xeura fored  dJoe        (ii) foruatton *n counr          l£nwetgnont;
(it) Formation des nouve"ux    l  cadr  do t'univereltdi    de'ptoi orpatede par la              (10) Rtduction du norao'
onailgnantn au ntvoto Obs       (tt) Jourm ve                  gui,T                             noanneement;
(tit) Forutton on coere         pdagogiques organis6es         (tit) Mductton do personnel    (ttt) Augentstion den
d'eplol orSouiade par t.        par to OSPES                  non-netegnantl                    charge. hortires.
UR;                             (tt) Supervision par           (iv) Augentation doe
(Cv) CentrOle adatnistrotit    Itnaspction gEnraleg            chargees hars tre.
et pldanogtque per lea          (Iv) Riductton du
inapecteora et directeurn.      personnel non-Ons.ignants
(v) ISductton du personnel      tv) Augmentation de
nonon etgnent                   charge  brt h roe.
(euppl4dats-d6tacl#s euprIe
do Iedntnet rotton1t
(vi) UOductton du noebre do
directours ddehargie do
cours.
e. ieltp tien de             tt) Introduction de              (1) Priporation do             (t) Adeptstton des filtros
fr_ogran                      l'neoignue_nt en Sttrndt        nouvus progeams                do formation so  erchs de
pedant 4 des puls passage g      dpt0e  OuR ralito E           l"eplotl
progresstf au Pranate;t         local*  et tonant coopte,    (it) Accent ute plus our to
(li) Introduction du      ,    on prticulter. do niveau    formation pratiqo. qu  our
travail pretique, do            ettetnt par tea eortante       la frmotion tbhorique;
l'hconuie  fattitole et do      du priestre (tirundi ot        (tit) Snatabiliatit on du
1l technologte inidgr,e a       frangato)l                     travail prstiq4u  par Ia
nI'tronnomsnt de I'colae        (ii) tmportance accrue         contectton d'objete
(tit) Participation             dee oatb6matiques 0t des       utilitatroc vendoo;
effective des _ebres deo Is      cientee;                      (tv) ftespooabLitl des
c-m=natt  a Is vie do           (itt) Introduction doe         programee at de ltur
I  eoleS                        jardine at Lle$1  . 8xpRrtletation conftle  nu
(tv) Responabtlttt  dee         eaolatren dextinE. au          USST.
ptograns 0t do lour             fitnaeuaeat partitel do
oxpartmentation cont 1 n.00u    Etebtisetonts;
MR.                             (tv) Roeansabllitd des
programe" et do lout
expirtmentatt*o confUte
so aseps.
7. ftodutio ot               (1) gdition, tmpr etsin 0t       (i) lopresnon de gntdes        (i) Guode* odegogtiqw
wSftefe  A "dee aid          publication contle & Ia          pddagogtques at de             tmprtia soet per le "PMS,
Uldegsuiqswa et des          Rfgte dos Produetions            fotbles tirages confai1* a    Solt par l  RPP at diffuoas
_Imen  Seeolatdr             PMagoniques CUPF);               I'tmprtnsrte du SEPM3;         per 1. 0set;
(it) Rlheam do ditfusion        (it) Etfort do                 (ii) Uffort dolt etr  fit
*uporviSt  par la  ePe. centroltiation de                      pout faire l'iaprestion t4es
UR et lee tinpecteure;          limpression ct de la           documents tiportente a In
Ciii) FInancemnt partiel        diffuston dana to cadre        RPPS
per toe parents (100? per       deo t  tPP;
dave);                          (tit) Finoncement partial
(tv) PrEvisions$ an livr        per lee patent.
pour 2 tlIves dans loe          (prol4vent aur
diseiplines prineipaleu 0t      hinerval).
ua guitde pdegogique pour
cheque mattre.
11.   luation dee            () Examen notional pout          tt) Selection pour
roltatt Ie'e ntt     *en Seconodare;                           l.ntr4. so 26" cycle.
CIi) Egnmna  do pesaug
chque anre .



-53                           AN!EX 2.5
.a Ps, 1 of-9
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
FINANCIAL_ MPLICATIONS OF ALTERNATIVE SCENARIOS IN THE EDUCATION SYSTEM/
IMPLICATIONS FINANCIERES DE SCENARIOS ALTERNATIFS DAMS LB SECTEUR
DE L'EDUCATION
LIST OF TABLESILISTE DES TABLEAUX
Table 1     -      Main Scenarios for Medium-Term Development of the
Education Sector
Table 2     -      Enrollment Projections in Primary Education Under Four
Alternative Scenarii - 1986187 - 1994/95
Table 3     -      Enrollment Projections in Public (General and Teacher
Training) Secondary Education Under Two Alternative
Scenarii - 1986/87 - 1994195
Table 4     -      Projection of Current Costs of Primary Education Under
Eight Basic Scenarii - 1986/87 - 1992/93
Table 5     -      Projection of Current Costs of Secondary Education Under
Two Basic Alternative Scenarii - 1986/87 - 1992/93
Table 6     -      Projection of Savings Generated by Various Adjustment
Measures at Each Level of the Education System Under the
Favorable Scenario (F) - 1987/88 - 1992/93
Table 7     -      Projection of Total Current Education Expenditures Under
Six Alternative Scenarii - 1986/87 - 1992/93
Table 8     -      Projection of Total Current Education Expenditures by
Levels Under the Favorable Scenario (F) - 1986/87 -
1992/93



- 54 -
ANNEX  2.5
TABLE  1                                         Page  2 of  9
MAIN SCENARIOS FOR MEDIUM-TERM DEVELOPMENIT OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR/
PRINCIPAUX SCENARIOS DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATIF
ScenariOs   Primary        Secondary      Higher
A           PI             S            HE
8          PII             SI           HE
C           PIt            SII          Hz
waesbls            D           P11*            SII*         HE*
Scen do           E           PIll           SIt          HU
_          PIII*           8IC P        b*
Notes: Primary
Pt    -   Full enrolltents In 1987/88.  Promotion ratee as
observed. Substitute teacher ratios * 10.62.
PII   -   Full enrollments in 1990/91.  Promotion trates as
observed. Substitute teacher ratios * 10.6Z.
Pll  -   Full enrollments in 1990/91.  Increased promotion rates.
Substitute teacher rattos - 6X.
-   Additional adjustment measures.  Increased tuition fees
(13U 200 to 400).
Secondary (General atd Teacher Training)
SI    -   lot cycle:  New enrollments increase by 31 annually
throughout the period.
-   2nd cycle:  Transition rates stay constant throughout the
period.
-   Boarding rates:  as observed (862).
SII   -   lst cycle:  New enrollments follow strictly new capacities
as projected by the Public Investment Program.
-   2nd cyclet  Transition rates stay constant until
1988/89. Thereafter, new enrollments In 2nd
cycle are limited in absolute term to 1,200
each year.
-   Boarding rates:  decline by 32 annually, from 862 in
1986/87 to 682 in 1992/93.
a     -   Additional adjustment measures:
- Increased teaching hours load.
- Increased students/teacher ratio.
- Reduced non-teaching staff ratio.
- Improved promotion rates.
- Increased boarding fees.
Secondary (Technical)
SI    -   Enrollments:  constant at their 1986/87 level.
-   Boarding rates:  as observed (862).
SII   -   Enrollments:  constant at their 1986/87 level.
-   Boarding rates:  decline by 32 annually from 862 in
1986/87 to 68Z in 1992/93.
tidher
a     -   Adjustment measures:
- Enrollments: constant at thetr 1986/87 level.
- Reduced repetition rates.
- Increased teaching hotur load.
- Increased student/teacher ratio.
- Reduced non-teaching staff ratio
- Increased students, participation to the costs of meals.
- Reduced levels of scholarshLp for graduate studies
overseas.
Scenario r is the only feasible development program.



-  55 -                                          ANNEX  2.5
Page 3 of 9
TABLE 2
ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS IN PRIMARY EDUCATION UNDER FOUR
ALTERNATIVE SCENARIOS: 1986/87-1994/95
PROJECTION D'EFFECTIFS DANS L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE SELON
QUATRE SCENARIOS: 1986/87-1994/95
Full Enrollment of                          Full Enrollment of
7-years old:  1987/88                      7-years old:  1990/91
Promotions           Promotion:            Promotion:             Promotion:
As Observed               85X              As Observed               85%
(ScenarlS 1 & 2,  (Scenarios 3&4)    (ScenarDS 5&6)               (ScenariOs 7&8)
1986/87          446,009            446,009               446,009               446,009
1987/88          545,930            528,557               516,012               498,639
1988/89          635,568            601,978               588,915               554,458
1989/90          720,956            677,643               671,162               626,480
1990/91          803,794            753,405               756,376               704,800
1991/92          885,705            827,525               839,522               781,351
1992/93          965,621            893,788               919,490               849,924
1993/94        1,035,287            942,575               994,951               912,369
1994/95        1,093,570            982,780             1,064,590               967,886
Source: Mission estimates.
Notes:   Scenario P1:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1987/88; Promotion as observed;
(PI)       Substitute teacher ratio - 10.62.
Scenario P2:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1987/88; Promotion as observed;
Substitute teacher ratio - 6%.
Scenario P3:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1987/88; Promotion improved;
Substitute teacher ratio - 10.6%.
Scenario P4:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1987/88; Promotion as observed;
Substitute teacher ratio = 62.
Scenario P5:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1990/91; Promotion as observed;
(PII)       Substitute teacher ratio - 10.62.
Scenario P6:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1990/91; Promotion as observed;
Substitute teacher ratio - 62.
Scenario P7:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1990/91; Promotion improved;
Substitute teacher ratio - 10.62.
Scenario P8:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1990/91; Promotion as observed;
(PILI)     Substitute teacher ratio - 62.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 4 of 9
TABLE 3
ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS IN PUBLIC (GENERAL AND TEACHER TRAINING) SECONDARY EDUCArION
UNDER TWO ALTERNATIVE SCENARIOS: 1986/87-1994/95
PROJECTION D'EFFECTIFS DANS L'ENSEIGNEMENT SECONDAIRE PUBLIC (GENERAL ET NORMAL),
SELON DEUX SCENARIOS: 1986/87-1994/95
SCENARIO I               SCENARIO II
Total                     Total
Enrollments   Boarders   Enrollments   Boarders
1986/87      21,153       18,098       21,153        18,098
1987/88      23,703       20,290       23,598        19,586
1988/89      26,231       22,454       26,036        20,828
1989/90      28,615       24,494       27,903        21,485
1990/91      30,753       26,325       29,213        21,617
1991/92      32,804       28,080       29,963        21,273
1992/93      34,662       29,671       30,351        20,639
1993/94      36,308       31,080       30,622        19,904
1994/95      37,738       32,304       30,706        19,037
Source: Mission estimates.
Notes:   Scenario I  - 1st cycle - new enrollments increase by 3% annually throughout the
period.
- Transition rate from 1st to 2nd cycle stays constant at 80% throughout
the period.
- Boarding rate: as observed (86%).
Scenario II - 1st cycle new enrollments follow strictly new capacities as projected by
the Public Investment Program.
- Transition rate from 1st to 2nd cycle stays constant until 1988/89. New
enrollments in 2nd cycle are limited in absolute terms to 1,200 each
year.
- Boarding rate: declines by 3% annually, from 86% in 1986/87 to 62% in
1994/95.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2.5
Pate- 5 of9
TABLE 4
PROJECTION OF CURRENT COSTS OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
UNDER EIGHT BASIC SCENARIOS: 1986/87-1992/93
(Millions of 1987 BUF)
PROJECTION DES COUTS DE FONCTIONNEMENT DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE SELON
HUITS SCENARIOS DE BASE: 1986/87-1992/93
(Millions de FBU 1987)
P1      P2       P3      P4       P5       P6      P7       P8
(PI)                              (PII)      _             (Pill)
1986/87   1,864   1,864   1,864   1,864   1,864   1,864   1,864   1,864
1987/88   2,061   1,993   2,047   1,979   1,985   1,920   1,970   1,906
1988/89   2,291   2,213   2,254   2,178   2,154   2,082   2,122   2,051
1989/90   2,532   2,444   2,471   2,385   2,371   2,289   2,317   2,238
1990/91   2,772   2,674   2,686   2,592   2,608   2,516   2,530   2,442
1991/92   3,011   2,903   2,898   2,795   2,846   2,745   2,742   2,645
1992/93   3,227   3,110   3,087   2,976   3,062   2,952   2,931   2,826
Source: Mission estimates.
Notes:   Scenario P1:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1987/88; Promotion as observed;
(PI)       Substitute teacher ratio = 10.6%.
Scenario P2:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1987/88; Promotion as observed;
Substitute teacher ratio - 6%.
Scenario P3:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1987/88; Promotion improved;
Substitute teacher ratio - 10.6%.
Scenario P4:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1987/88; Promotion as observed;
Substitute teacher ratio - 6%.
Scenario P5:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1990/91; Promotion as observed;
(PII)      Substitute teacher ratio = 10.6%.
Scenario P6:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1990/91; Promotion as observed;
Substitute teacher ratio - 6%.
Scenario P7:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1990/91; Promotion improved;
Substitute teacher ratio - 10.6%.
Scenario P8:  Full enrollments of 7-years old in 1990/91; Promotion as observed;
(PIIl)     Substitute teacher ratio   6%.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2.5
TABLE 5                               Page 6 of 9
PROJECTION OF CURRENT COSTS OF SECONDARY EDUCATION UNDER
TWO BASIC ALTERNATIVE SCENARIOS: 1986/87-1992/93
(in 1987 Thousands of BUF)
PROJECTION DES COUTS DE FONCTIONNEUENT DE L'ENSEIGN&MENT SECONDAIRE, SELON
DEUX SCENARIOS DE BASE: 1986/87-1992/93
(en Milliers de FBU 1987)
General and T.T.             Technical                   Total
Scenario I  Scenario II Scenario I  Scenario II  Scenario I  Scenario II
1986/87      914,552      914,552      306,662      306,662    1,221,214   1,221,214
1987/88    1,055,759   J,038,592       315,394      311,686    1,371,153   1,350,277
1988/89    1,203,410   1,163,891       324,856      316,628    1,528,266   1,480,519
1989/90    1,352,165   1,266,693       334,602      321,587    1,686,767   1,588,280
1990/91    1,496,789   1,346,451       344,640      326,559    1,841,429   1,673,010
1991/92    1,644,512   1,401,854       354,979      331,539    1,999,492   1,733,393
1992/93    1,789,786   1,441,118       365,628      336,524    2,155,415   1,777,642
Source: Mission estimates.
Notes: General and Teacher Training
SI    -   1st cycle:  New enrollments increase by 3% annually
throughout the period.
-   2nd cycle:  Transition rates stay constant throughout the
period.
-   Boarding rates:  as observed (86%).
SII   -   1st cycle:  New enrollments follow strictly new capacities
as projected by the Public Investment Program.
-   2nd cycle:  Transition rates stay constant until
1988/89. Thereafter, new enrollments in 2nd
cycle are limited in absolute terms to 1,200
each year.
-   Boarding rates:  decline by 3% annually, from 86% in
1986/87 to 68% in 1992/93.
Technical
SI    -   Enrollments:  remain constant.
-   Boarding rates:  as observed (86%).
SII   -   Enrollments:  remain constant.
-   Boarding rates:  decline by 3% annually from 86% in 1986/87
to 68% in 1992/93.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 7 of 9
TABLE 6
PROJECTION OF SAVINGS GENERATED BY VARIOUS ADJUSTMENT MEASURES AT
EACH LEVEL OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM UNDER THE FAVORABLE SCENARIO (F) - 1987/88-1992/93
(in Thousands of 1987 BUF)
PROJECTION DES ECONOMIES ENGENDREES PAR L'ADOPTION DES DIVERSES MESURES
D'AJUSTEMENT A CHAQUE NIVEAU DU SYSTEME EDUCATIF: SCENARIO OPTIMISTE (F) - 1987/88-1992/93
(en Milliers de FBU 1987)
St;CUNDARY
(General, Teacher Tratning
PRIMARY                and Techaical)                                   HIGHIER
Increased
Student
Contr. to
Increased Meals 6
Reduced                           Students/  Reduced
Increased               Non-                            Teaching    Non-
Increased Students/ Increased Teaching Increased  Reduced    Ratio &  Teaching
Tuition   Teacher  Teaching   Staft   boarding  Repetition Teaching    Stats
Fees       Ratio      Load      Ratio       Fees       Rates        Load       Ratio
(1)        (2)        (3)       (4)         (5)        (6)          (7)        (8)
1987/88      _        21,164    9,319    4,576    22,529    14,110             8,304    29,082
1988/89   22,U00      40,404   13,648    6,976    23,665    14,110            16.b09    32,382
1989/90   50,119    60,606   12,205    6,976    48,430    28,786              24,913    35,532
1990/91   73,299    80,327   10,7b2    5,776    48,482    28,786              33,218    38,332
1991/92  110,562    99,086    9,800    5,476    71,373    28,786             43,183    41,532
1992/93  120,264   116,402    9,319    4,876    69,150    28,786             43,183    41,532
Source: Mission estimates.
Notes:   Assumptions:
(1)  (a) Tuition fees increace is scheduled to stert in 1988/89; (b) the portion of fees going to
the insurance company (SOcABU) is not included in the estimates; (e) the proportion ot parents
not paying the fees is assumed to increase from 202 in 1986/87 to 25X in 1990/91; and (d) all
calculations are applied to Scenario PiII (or P1).
(2)  (a) Calculations are based on the difference in teachers requirements between a statu quo
situation (i.e., observed students/teacher ratio) and a situation of increased
students/teachet ratios; (b) average salary costs (481,000 BUF) are applied to the redundant
teachers; and (c) all calculations are applied to Scenario SII.
(3)  (a)  ;stimates are based on a gradual increase ot the weekly teaching load (from 16 to 18
hours); (b) average salary costs (481,000 BU1) are applied to the redundant teachers and the
total savings stretched throughout the period 1987/88 to 1994/95; and (c) all calculations are
applied to Scenario 11 and to the adjusted students/teacher ratios,
(4)  (a) Estimates are based on the increase of the students/non-teaching statt ratio (trom b5:1 to
86:1); (b) average salary costs (300,000 WiF) are applied to the redundant statf; and (c) all
calculations are applied to Scenario S11.
(5)  (a) Estimates are made on the assumption of a 1,000 BUF increase ot boarding tees every other
year; and (b) calculations are applied to Scenario S11.
(b)  tstimates are based on constant admission figures.
(7)  By applying the average salary costs of university protessors (B30,44U BUY') to excess
positions.
(8)  Increased students' contribution to meals is based on riding the portion ot students' loan
going to university restaurants from 3.0U0 bUF' to 4.50U 80' per month.



§*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,
0
34     rd
W il
CA A
o 0
'-4
0   0
rd  04
cn
SCENARIO A a/         SCENARIO 8 a/         SCENARIO C at         SCENA1XIO D a/         SCENARIO E at         SCENARIO F a/t      E
Total  jOerall    Total| Overall    Total    Overall|  Total    overall    Total    Overall    Total    overall                              C 
Expendit.  Balance  Expendit.  Balance  Expendit.  Balance  Expendit.  Balance  Expendit.  Balance  Expendlt.  Balance
(1)        (2)        (3)        (4)        (S)        (6)        (7)        ()         9)(1O)                (11)    --(12)             t,
lm   *4zi
198u/87   4,093         _        4,093        -        4,093        -        4,093         -       4,093         -        4,093        -        - ,  O  
1987/86   4,45U        -235      4,374       -159      4,354       -139      4,218          -3      4,275        -60      4,139         76           E 0 n ctI
1988/89   4,848        -507      4,711       -370      4,664       -323      4,465        -124      4,561       -220      4,364        -23            1P.                       I
1989/90   5.2b1        -789      5,100       -628      5,001       -529      4,702       -230      4,868        -396      4,573       -101               H         1           ON
1990/91   5,666    -1,061        5,502       -897      5,333       -728      4,982       -376       5,167       -562      4,821       -215     $ °      O
1991/92   6,075    -1,331        5,910    -1,166       5,644       -900      5,200       -456       5,443       -669      5,006       -262     F            z
1992/93   6,459    -1,573        6,294    -1,408       5,916    -1,030       5,449        -563     5,680        -794      5,219       -333     °  D
ti    Itid
S,urce:  Mission estimates.                                                                                                                            tZ
Notes:   a/  Scenarii:  See Table 1                                                                                                                _   r
b/  Overall Balance = Difference between the projected budget of the MEN (assumed to increase                                          c-n   _>
annually by 3Z in constant terms) and the projected expenditures under alternative seenarii.                                      >4    Wt o=
cn
g-.~~~~~~~~
'0
-S3
4J)~~~~



-61 -
ANNEX 2.5
TABLE 8                              Page 9 ot 9
PROJECTION OF TOTAL CURRENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES BY LEVELS UNDER
THE FAVORABLE SCENARIO (F) a/ - 1986/87-1992/93
(Millions of 1987 BUF)
PROJECTION DES DEPENSES COURANTES TOTALE DIEDUCATION, PAR NIVEAUX, SELON LE
SCENARIO LE PLUS FAVORABLE - 1986/87-1992/93
(Million de FBU 1987)
Secondary
General
Teacher
Training                          MEN
and     Higher    Total   Ordinary
Primary  Technical Education Expend.   Budget   Overall
(PIII *)   (SII *)  (HE *) b/    c/         d/      Balance
(1)       (2)        (3) -    (() (5)              (6)
1986/87    1,864      1,222        894     4,093    4,093        -
1987/88    1,906      1,293        825     4,139    4,215         76
1988/89    2,029      1,396        824     4,364    4,341       -23
1989/90    2,188      1,461        808     4,573    4,471      -101
1990/91    2,369      1,528        807     4,821    4,606      -215
1991/92    2,534      1,548        805     5,006    4,744      -262
1992/93    2,706      1,578        816     5,219    4,886      -333
Source:  Mission estimates.
Notes:
a/ All estimates based on Scenario F (see Table 1).
Wb/ Includes the University Hospital (CHU).
El Includes non-formal education and central administration
expenditures (cabinet).
d/ Assuming a 3% annual increase.



- 62 -
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI  ANNEX 3.1
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/    Page 1 of 3
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
MONITORING TABLE OF POLICY MEASURES/TABLEAU DE PILOTAGE DES MESURES A PRENDRE
-4  -4              . -
a'--
IVF- jU,W Ii                           - 
i11 1                      1.1t0Z!gi§   i I!M
Bi~ I                         .
31~~            4  U: 'It      1%   0   0% i
X  X   s    r  X  X      w   X    Q  X~~4-   4-
t__X[ U    X~
111*131. II   I Ililili~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



63 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
MONITORING TABLE OF POLICY MEASURES/TABLEAU DE PILOTAGE DES MESURES A PRENDRE
N1W  S1ADE           DuS=aa IE           to.           IE9MIS A PfROMD         NrINJ             IN)DCM(:QM M IEMMM
IA RE6    DuC                                           ACE 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _    ~~~~~    ~ ~~~1988  3989  1990  1991  1992
2. Oma            a) Prtlire                 Ah5 (iv)                      wuntten heatdmaire           3 7 h/s   179ti   ITiF     8T        h    37h
!    ais   de                                                          de la dcage homaire
b) Sd. GA. & Mt           B.S (iv)           12        Aleurdiset de la           16  e    17 h/s  18 h/s   19 h/a  20 h/   21 h/s
(ler qcle)                                          charge boraire bebdau-
daire
c) Second  0., Nrm        B.5 (tv)           1313      Aldisseut de las           16 h/s    16 h/s  17 h/s   17 h/s  18 h/s  18 h/
(2m cycle) et                                        IaSge hDraire 1Ab i-
Sered., TadAque                                     daire
(ler & 2e cyciem)
!d) Su& wr                C.5 (iii)          14        Alourdisseu    de         204 Ob/e   204 h   22D h    220 h   230 h   240 h
haraire ainnel
3.F Pesmei       9a) prime                   A.S (i)            15         Dmitution du tax de       10.62      8S       6t       6?       6t       6S
de as uem                                                                                       _
4. Pereid          a) Pdtlsre                A.5 (vi)           16        Dinutmtln du rnport         St        7S       72       62       65       St
wi .me1unt                                                             entre personnel ui
eueignt (directeurs
et atrt) et persauwl
erseiglunt
b) Secoslaire             1.5 (iv)           17        Dlanzticn du rtprt         1:65      1:70    1:75       1:80    1:80      I s
petson. abrnistrat.
(hats inteenat):elhes
c) Ssqkiedew              D.5 (ii)           18        Dlmattion du rpport        97S       91       9a        85     8am       71
entre personnel atdn.
(hate (LO.U.) et
personnel ersensht
. Sevis           a) Secmare   *a11          B.3 (i)            19        D ution du ta                        832      8a       771   742         71
Sociam            t4mmm  & T dsqa                                      d'internat de 1X p.a.
des Ofti
1. Dmits de       a) Ptlarte                 A.3 (Li)    |     20         henataion dnerval         200       200      250      300      350      400
scdlait8                                               l(FRU cutat)



'-64 -                          ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DkVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
MONITORING TABLE OF POLICY MEASURES/TABLEAU DE PILOTAGE DES MESURES A PRBNDRE
- -…
I ip -_S_ -- -N -
i _ft 4                   13  1   1      a  
I.                                      _    B A  .~m  .m
I   ji lii 11J    U                        lii  IQ
S    2   ~~~~~~~~~~.4  Sr         .5  .5  .5
_i                    ___    _n a
I   iii    U                      Ii X  B 2ii   ,
__f I 31 L X  L>
1 "__       __  _   i       II             _______
. ~  ~    _ _  _  _            _ _  _  _  _ '



- 65 -
ANNEX 3.2
REPUBLIC OF 'URUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
TARGETED INDICATORS/INDICATEURS DE PERFORMANCE 1/
bdicata= de petrfoiuute
Musm                               Qbjecttfe coartractml
Sae-olctifa       solre        lndkAtej                    A attdrdre                               diiategs muds
Pa arat A        i fin de_
)a 2be $me    p?ojet (qns
!  1aa   du ptodet (pt&      60 MI
ac,tl    30 iols ewitan)    e.ircn)      1988    1989   1990    1991        I9n1
A. Go              Mwitle             1          4 300      3 $0            3500        4 100    3 00    3 700    3 600    35SOD
Swj A e            2         43 200     40 000          37 000       42 000   41000   39 000   33000   3700)
g&*d et
mml
sw.  af            3         86500      00 000          73 000       83000  D0 000   780OO    76000   73000
&qdil9 a           4        303 0,00    270 000         240 000     285 000  275 000  265 000  255 000 240 0M
rz l a-yowe                         5         42         5R               5u          472     492      512    5        58
honbfr             6          3C2                        272         31       292      282     m7       2s
&daw               7          222        20              172         212      20R      192      i       17m
l      pmftonm  agtelata zdateot de l'qplkstlmn do =su   frdiqAw  &dila I.        m de Pi PltaWs jutam Amum 3.1 de ls*-.W de C6Lt.



- 66 -                                                   ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
PRELIMINARY DRAFT OF THE PUBLIC EXPENDITURES PROGRAM (PEP) OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR - 1988-90
(Millions of 1987 BUF)
VERSION PRELIMINAIRE DU PROGRAMME DE DEPENSES PUBLIQUES DU SECTEUR EDUCATION - 1988-90
(Millions de FBU 1987)
1988                                 1989                                199D
oglremt      captal       All       ozrre,t      Cwital        All       oarei        Capital       Al
.OW                         2,5S3        1,020       3,58        2,787          793      3.580        3,046          750      3,796
.&Arnme                     2,029          466       2,495       2,188          248       2,436       2,369          219      2,588
-MN                         2,029          466       2,495       2,188          248       2,436       2,369          219      2,58
- Other Hhdtrimn             -             a/         -           -             a/         -           -              a/       -
CaattmI                       534          T27         661         599                      689         677          1,)         777
Fordo                        ./            427         427       aI             455         455        a/            431        431
S=m w                       1.594           184    1,78          1.677          401      2,078        1,762          431  2,19
}     nermmt                1,539            6       1,545       1,619           16      1,635       1,70            19       1,720
-184                        1,396             6      1,545       1,461           16       1,477       1,528           19       1,547
- Otblr sdatries              143          a/          143         158           u          158         173            /         173
ORmiti                         55          _            55          58           _           58          61           _           61
Fbnlp                        S/             178        178        a             385         385        !             412        412
mmE                           852           110        852         839           36         8735        841           -         841
Owe:uut                       824           -          824         808           10         818         807           _         8
-  4N                         824                      824         808           10          18         807 S                    7
- OtbwrMnLtrd   m            _             4          -                          a /      -            -              a /
0:11mitiin                     28                       28          31           _           31          34                       34
ctdp                                        I 111     111        a              26          26
WML                         5,124         1.313      6,439       5,419        1 230      6,649        5.671        1 181      6,852
Govermint                   4,507           472      4,979       4,731          274       5,005       4,994          238      5,232
- If4                       4,364 b        472       4,836       4,573          274      4,847        4,821          238      5,059
-Otlhrl  datrim               143            /         143         158           4          158         173           4          173
Oatt1m                        617          T27         744         688           lb         778         677         1i6          m
V,elg                                       716        716         I            866 1   866                          843        863
a Not daa.lmated
rWUI Tz Ne th ~ft apOUiUar. (au-form1 Wdamaloc,   atawrdimntIuton).



5ui Dnu                 lC znc 1990 (a ,nlilm de FM) - 1WUIDAW M
1 IX1 PM= 93 a?      D  '3hME                             L IIIS aU8     9111 I F      _rpcilm                liERnw MUNE
(Mifliam de nll)
1988    1989    I990    196899D
EzXOO UrSi                           urB    I                            ItISrll A:9   s ht#rLw                0,0     0.0     0,0       0,0
3.L Bl:       bdari                64,0    n,o    0,0        64,0
bRstriew          ink               64,0     0,0    0,0       64,0
1M1L              64,0    0,0      0,0      64,0
UIEMNcUIV       P E                    EIrIE                4214         IntSr±ar: 1s1  hIt &i                33,7    97,0   104,0   2355,0
PMITI                                  3.0.   : 7       . B0.             23,6    67,9    73,4    164,9
Colet-          1aleaVItt           10,1   29,1    31,4       70,6
DWEMUS INME                                        ida
Er9  somYun1                         btliam: 9(1  Btd                    303,3   873,5   %3,2   2 120,0
Mt    : 841    M                  286,1   824,0   889,8   1 999,9
FNWIN ETS Ms       FM=  MS                       .A UD              2,12  FmImD                7,1    20,4    22,0      49,5
MUTES              KUt    , IU! saw: 3,0%    WW                                               10,1    29,1    31h4      70,6
T1OL             377,0   970,5 1 068,0   2 355,5
MR  PMlT   SIaIK                             nc&Enr: lntruzta                                                  8,6    0,0      0,0      88,6
ID1Gl - FAD    VWUN MS                                                     Ex              EeI                88,6     0,0    0,0       88,6
MUTES                                                      ttiew          ^tIdaw             202,0    0,0      0,0     202,0                                         1
FAD             FAD               2020     0,0      0,0     202,0                                        (I
1OL               2930,6   0,0     0,0      290,6
O EiES aWDIR     POW=              OIWSiG   R               2 332        I*rztef :10(  Ttd                  575,0   512,0   481,0   1 568,0
3 332 SAM    EE                        B.O.   s1   3.0.                    0,0     0,0     0.0       0,0
IASlE                                colleci- :1o0(  CoDectvls           575,0   512,0  481,0   1 56S,0
ilt
htSrd:       1 Om   Fd               0,0     0,0     0,0       0,0
I 17W              575,0   512,0   481,0   1 568,0
mnwmur          31M                 UCIUUI0 i                 130,0   s itkier:  ex  tidar                     0,0     0,0     0,0       0,0
FeA1mNz                            L'IIITll                             bt&eim t1(  flade1                   13,0   91,0    26,0    130,0
PA     QM                             PFED    :1o0(   PeD                 13,0    91,0   26,0    130,0
St PED           'mm                13,0   91,0    26,0       130,0
0tm
(ADIVDlWm-    S        E           vEvEID Wr E)CS             2D5,8      Xntr±ew :32,3  ntaw                  20,1    16,6   16,2       52,9                                         0 
1611  Er E3s                           B.O.   :32,3  B3.O                 20,1    16,6    16,2      52,9                                        OQZ
JADUX  SMEAiEs                       Pztdem  :67,7S Ktklaz                74,6   27,7    24,9    127,2 
17W.               94.7    44,3   41,1       8O,1l
11Wm GNL         1374,3 1 617,8 1596,1   4 581,2                                          w



PROGRAMME D'INVESTISSENENT PUBLIC
Projets retenus dont le finencement n'est pas encore assur6
NOM DU PROJET                DEGRE D'ENSEIGNEMENT           MONTANT                   REPARTITION ANNUELLE
(en millions de FBU)
1988     1989     1990     1988-1989
EQUIPEMENT DES ECOLES             PRIMAIRE                   390,0             90,0     70,0      80,0       240,0
PRIMAIRES
NOUVELLES FILIERES                SECONDAIRE                 100,0              0,0     50,0      50,0       100,0
A L'ETS/KAMENGE
ETUDE FOiA&TION DES               SECONDAIRE                  30,0                      15,0      15,0        30,0
FORMATEURS
EXTENSION AUTRES                  SECONDAIRE                 100,0              0,0     50,0      50,0       100,0
ECOLES TECHNIQUES
CONSTRUCTION ESCO                 SUPERIEUR                  40,0              25,0      15,0      0,0        40,0
BUREAUX ENSEIGNANTS               SUPERIEUR                   30,0              0,0      15,0     15,0        30,0
UNIVERSITE
ETUDES FACULTE DES                SUPERIEUR                  20,0               0,0      0,0      20,0        20,0
RES
TOTAL                                                        710,0            145,0    215,0    230,0        560,0
0*|
Mite



- 69 -                     ANNEX 3.4
Page I of 7
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION AND PLANNING COMPONENT
I.   Review of the Situation at Start-Up
1.        Administrative organization
The Education Planning Office is attached to the Office of the
Minister. It comprises three services:
(a) the Planning and School Ma,ping Service, whose responsibilities are:
-    to undertake studies and research concerning the way the education
system currently operates;
-    to assist Burundian officials in formulating national education
policy and defining its goals;
-    to draw up the short-, medium- and long-term education plans;
-    to achieve regional balance in the development of the education
system.
In addition, for the work of regional-level school mapping, the
Government has decided to appoint a school mapping expert under each regional
inspector. So far, 23 assistants have been appointed and have been provided
with specially equipped offices. However, the authorities still have to
appoint another 10 assistants, acquire offices and equipment and train or
retrain all the school mapping specialists.
(b) the Education Statistics Service, whose responsibilities are
-    to collect, procesri and distribute all information on the education
system.
It constitutes a data bank which has to be kept constantly up to
date.   It also constitutes the nucleus of the future data processing service
which will be called upon to assist all tLe Ministry's other services in this
field.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 7
(c) the Student Counselling Service, whose current responsibilities are
to:
-    counsel students finishing the first cycle of secondary education.
Counselling at the other levels (end of primary, and higher
education) is entrusted to ad hoc committees;
-    carry out a study each year to forecast the number of secondary
education places required in the following year (estimation study).
2.        Although each of these services is responsible for specific tasks,
protracted studies or projects are always carried out jointly. This
collaboration enables the Office to compensate in part for its inadequate
personnel resources.
Collaboration also exists with the external services, especially the
Planning Ministry and the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Human Resource
Planning. The Office is also responsible for providing technical support for
the various foreign missions received by the Ministry of National Education.
The Education Planning Office is a small office, staffed by 9 senior
and 2 middle-level professionals and 2 operatives, plus a cooperation
assistant in data processing and 2 secretaries.
With regard to training in education planning, the Office possesses
four professionals trained at IIPE; unfortunately, two of them are likely to
leave the service this year.
3.        Work accomplished so far
The volume of activity during the last few years has been relatively
large despite the paucity of the physical and human resources available to the
Office. It has been conducted in two separate areas:
(a) Macro-planning. The Office has carried out or particdoated in the
following macro-planning projects:
-    study of the internal yield of primary and secondary education;
-    study of the cost and financing of education in Burundi;
-    a number of simulation exercises to ascertain the necessary
conditions for achievement of the goal of full enrollment of
children aged 7 years;
-    active participation by members of the Office in the work of the
commissions responsible for projecting development trends in the
Burundian education system at the primary and secondary levels under
alternative hypotheses;
-    participation in the work of the Inter-Ministerial '.Zcommittee on
Human Resource Planning, drafting the part relating"to education
system graduate trends.



-71 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 3 of 7
In the area of support for foreign missions, the Office also helped
draft the sector study and project outlines for the round table on external
aid to the education and training sector. It also helped draft proposals for
collaboration among the Ministry of National Education, the United States
Agency for International Development and the Bridges Project.
(b) School Mapping. The most important activity of the Education
Planning Office during the last four years has undoubtedly been the
preparation and implementation of the primary education school map.
This included the following stages:
-    1979-82:  pilot study in the present province of Kirundo;
-    November 22 - December 3, 1982:  holding of the first intensive
training course on school mapping methodology for inspectors and
school-mapping assistants. The object was to inform the
participants, on the basis of the results of the study in the
province of Kirundo, about general school-mapping concepts and
basic education system diagnostic study techniques. At the end of
the course each assistant selected a pilot commune in his canton of
origin in which to conduct an in-depth diagnostic study. During
1983-84, 20 communes were studied (communes as they existed prior to
the administrative reorganization of the provinces and communes).
-    January 23 - February 2, 1984:  holding of the second intensive
course on school mapping methodology. The purpose of the course was
threefold:
-    to conduct a systematic review of the 20 pilot studies in order
to identify the major problems encountered by the cantonal
teams;
-    to train the assistants in other analysis techniques enabling
them to assess the magnitude of the disparities;
_ ! to teach the assistants the methods of projecting and
forecasting education demand and preparing education supply
proposals.
Following this secoid intensive course the primary education "School
Mapping" exercise was extended to all communes in Burundi, and the results are
now available for every commune.
Alongside these study projects, the Office performs routine tasks
such as processing of statistical data and their publication in yearbooks,
preparation and counselling of graduates of the first cycle of secondary
education, and so on.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 4 of 7
II. Goals Assigned to the Planning Office under the
Education Sector Developmenlt Project
4.        These goals are as follows:
to prepare and implement, at least once a year, the Public
Expenditure Program (PEP) and the Public Investment Plan (PIP);
to monitor the application of the elements approved under the
project and contained in the Project Control Chart (Tableau de
PMlotage) so as to achieve the results scheduled for the
mid-project evaluation;
to devise, draw up and apply measures for controlling the evolution
of education costs and the utilization of the various budgets;
to compile, process and disseminate all statistical data on the
development of education at all levels;
to assist national officials in formulating current education policy;
to carry out an in-depth diagnostic study of the current functioning
of the education system;
to help draft the short-, medium- and long-term education plans;
to suggest necessary means for the development of education;
to study rational utilization of the resources (financial, physical,
human, etc.) devoted to education;
-    to take into general use and periodically update the regional and
national school maps in order to meet the country's socioeconomic
needs smoothly;
-    to centralize the preparation of education development projects;
-    to ensure that school counselling is geared to manpower development
policy reflecting the country's socioeconomic needs;
-    to participate actively in the Subcommittee on Human Resource
Planning;
to organize, lead and supervise training courses and seminars on the
collection of statistical data gathering, school mapping, local
planning and school administration for inspectors, lycee
(secondary school) and college (junior secondary school)
principals and primary school principals.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 5 of 7
III.   Stratexies and Resources to be Deployed
5.        Strategies
-    improvement of data gathering and organization of a data bank;
-    strengthening of school statistics through computerization;
-    updating of the existing school records system;
-    training or retraining of professionals of the Office through
seminars in Burundi or training courses abroad;
-    furnishing the Office with the necessary financial and physical
resources;
-    regular updating of the school map;
-    recruitment of the specialized consultants whose tasks are defined
below;
-    frequent field visits to identify training needs precisely and
ensure that the physical organization of the courses and seminars is
as good as possible.
6.        Resources to be deployed
To implement the above strategies the Office will inevitably need
relatively large resources.
First of all, the Office will have to be given an adequate,
competent and stable personnel. To make this staff competent and experienced
it will need to be trained, hence the need for assistance in the form of
fellowships abroad and local seminars.
To that end it will be necessary to recruit or train the following
persons:
-    an economist;
-    a high-level statistician;
-    an expert on the preparation of education system development plans.
'Secondly, the Office will need equipment suited to its various
tasks, particularly data processing equipment.
Thirdly, it will need an adequate operating budget to allow it to
purchase the necessary consumable supplies for publication of the studies,
etc. it carries out.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 6 of 7
In addition to the financing that will be granted by the World Bank
under the Fourth Project, UNDP will finance a project also entitled "Support
for Education Planning and Administration."
These two projects will be complementary with regard to expansion
and quantitative and qualitative improvement of the system.
The total external assistance requirements are estimated at
US$1 million.
IV.  Summary of the Tasks of the Specialist Consultants to be Recruited
(a) Education Financing
The Education Financing consultant will be responsible (in addition
to his economist functions briefly described below) for coordinating all the
activities of the experts. In that capacity he will advise the Director of
the Office concerning the most suitable periods for their arrival and
recruitment. He will also be required to:
-    compile the necessary financial and budgetary data to enable him to
prepare the PIP and the PEP;
-    closely monitor the results obtained during application of the
measures recommended in the Project Control Chart (Tableau de
Pilotage);
-    update the budgetary expenditure and external aid data;
-    adjust the unit operating cost estimates for primary and secondary
schools, particularly for technical and vocational education;
-    propose strategies for the mobilization and efficient utilization of
resources.
(b) School Mapping
-    develop a methodology for preparing the secondary education school
map;
-    provide two-week training for school mapping assistants;
-    prepare a methodology document.
(c)' Education Administration
-    conduct a critical study of the Ministry of Education's national and
regional administrative organixation;
-    evaluate the efficiency of the administrative procedures in use at
the various levels of the Ministry's organization;



- 75 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 7 of 7
-    present proposals for rationalizing the structures and
administrative procedures it, accordance with civil service rules.
(d)  Internal Efficiency
-    compilation of statistics on education output:  promotion, repeater,
dropout and cycle transition rates;
-    analysis of statistics for all levels and types of education in
order to calculate their efficiency rates and also the percentage
increase in student-year cost and the proportion of graduates;
-    proposal of pedagogic and administrative measures for minimizing
dropout.
(e)  Computerization of the Ministry
-    inventory of the data processing needs of the Ministry's
administration: student and teacher numbers, expenditures
(operating and equipment), identification and location of buildings,
system of award and recovery of scholarship loans, management of
external aid;
-    proposal of data processing equipment to be purchased and of
training institutions for fellowship holders;
Note 1:   Depending on the numbers of Burundian experts recruited or trained
under the project and of bilateral aid experts, the above list of
consultants may be modified, except for the economist responsible
for education financing matters, who will continue to perform his
coordination functions.
Note 2 :  Supplementary details concerning the resources to be deployed and
their costs and execution timetable are given in the document
entitled "Support for Education Planning and Administration" and
also in Government/UNDP project document No. BDI-86/010, also
entitled "Support for Education Planning and Administration."



- 76 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT OF PRIMARY EDUCATION COMPONENT
I. Review of the Situation-at Start-UD
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.        Brief statistical data
The current figures for primary education are:
-    7,081 teachers with various levels of qualification, distributed in
1,153 schools;
-    441,633 students, at the beginning of the present school year,
distributed in 6,479 classes.
2.        Administrative organization
The qualitative improvement of primary education is the responsi-
bility of the Directorate of Primary Education (DEP), as the top-level
authority, which delegates implementation to its specialized department, the
Rural Education Office (BER). For the execution of certain activities which
will be described later on, the BER calls upon, first, the primary education
inspectors, who belong to the Primary Education Directorate (DEP), and the
instructors of the Teacher Training Schools (EFIs), who belong to the Office
of Secondary Education Curriculum Studies (BEPES). Finally, books and
documents for teaching purposes are printed by the Educational Materials
Printing Unit (RPP). These various departments are briefly described below.
(a) General Directorate of Basic Education (DGEB)
The DGEB has three departments under its authority, one of which is
Primary Education (DEP). It is involved in the project because the DEP is
responsible for organizing, coordinating and supervising the educational work
of the 1';pectors.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 2 of 9
Primary education inspection is organized at two levels.
The first level comprises eight regional inspectors (their number
will increase during the next few years). They are responsible for
coordinating the work of the inspectors at the level of Burundi's eight school
regions. The latter are assigned to the chief cities of the regions. Their
work comprises administrative and educational inspection of the cantonal
inspectors. They also play a crucial role in organization of the quarterly
and monthly one-day conferences which will be led by the cantonal inspectors.
The second level comprises cantonal inspection. The national
territory is covered by 31 cantonal inspectors. Their work consists in making
regular visits to primary schools, where they play the dual role of
supervising and leading the teachers and supervising and regulating school
administration. They also help, in collaboration with the school-mapping
assistants to the inspectors, to prepare the documents and studies requested
by the School Mapping Office (BCS) of the Education Planning Office (BPE).
Finally, the General Directorate manages the operating budgets of the various
departments under its authority.
(b) Rural Education Office (BER)
The BER, which was established in 1973, is an educational research
and leadership agency. Its mission is to:
-    design all research operations for continuous improvement of primary
education and teacher qualification levels;
-    design and apply appropriate strategies for commun ty school
construction in Burundi;
i
-    promote, coordinate and supervise various workshops concerned with
the design, testing, dissemination and evaluation of teaching aids
and materials;
-    provide continuous training of teachers in close collaboration with
the Primary Education Department.
The BER has a staff of 95 people, of whom 75 work in units devoted
to designing and preparing primary education curricula, teaching methods and
teaching aids. Of the 75 design staff, four are French Cooperation agents
assigned to the French and School Radio workshop.
Since it was established the BER has benefited from a number of
bilateral and multilateral cooperation projects, some general and others
specific. The BER currently has at its disposal the resources granted to it
by the Government of Burundi, by French Cooperation through its participation
in "French and Radio," and by UNICEF through its participation in the
financing of teacher training and supervision.



- 78-
ANNEX 3.5
Page 3 of 9
(c) The Teacher Training Schools (EFI) Department of BEPES
The schools for initial training of primary teachers are currently
supervised by a special department of BEPES. This department is responsible
for:
-    improvement of primary teacher initial training programs;
-    supervision and continuing training of teacher training school
instructors.
The department has a staff of 22 persons, divided into nine
sections. Most of the Burundian professionals and foreign cooperation agents
assigned to this project were recruited from among persons who have
participated, at one time or another, in primary education curriculum and
organization work within the BER.
This method of recruitment therefore ensures that-the training goals
and methodological approaches recommended by the Teacher Training (EFI)
Department are consistent with the primary education goals set by the programs
and methods issued by the BER.
Belgian cooperation is also currently active in this Department,
with four agents assigned to various sections. There is one French
Cooperation agent in the French Section.
(d) Educational Materials Printing Unit (RPP)
The RPP was created by Decree No. 100,166 of July 20, 1983.  It is
an administrative unit possessing individual identity and financial autonomy,
which is under the authority of the minister whose portfolio includes
education.
The purpose of the RPP is to produce the school textbooks and
teaching aids required to apply the new teaching methods at the primary
level. The RPP will also soon begin to supply part of the books for secondary
education.
The RPP has a staff of 57, including both manual and administrative
workers. This staff is organized into six technical services: composition,
graphic arts, photogravure, printing, binding, and maintenance. The chiefs of
these various services have all attended training courses abroad lasting from
three to nine months.
The RPP's equipment comprises four presses: a GTO 33 x 45 cm, a KORA
46 x 57 cm, a KORD 46 x 64 cm and a SORS 72 x 104 cm. Only the SORS is of the
ideal format for the production of schoolbooks in view of the considerable
development of basic education and the consequent increased size of runs.
It also possesses a folding machine whose format is not large enough
for the works printed on the SORS, a gluing machine and two guillotines. It
has also installed a system of distribution of textbooks as far as the school
principal level and has acquired a fleet of six vans for that purpose.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 4 of 9
II.       Work Accomplished by the BER in Connection with Prolect Activities
2.        Before the activities under the Fourth Project began, the BER,
partly under the Third Education Pro'ect financed by the World Bank
(Credit 1358-BU), developed curricula for all primary education disciplines:
from the first to the sixth year in the case of the Kirundi language,
arithmetic, environmental studiesjand physical education, and from the third
year in the case of French, agricultural practical work and family economics.
In carrying out this work, the BER took into account two important new factors
which compelled it to redesign its continuing training and teaching
supervision activities:
(a) The introduction of Kirundi as a teaching language. Until now,
Kirundi has effectively been the teaching language in the first four
years of the primary cycle. The current political intention is to
extend its use to the full six years. This decision necessitates
revision of the documents prepared in the BER. Until now, teachers'
manuals have been printed in French and each teacher has had to make
the translation into the vernacular on his own.
This situation produces fairly substantial discrepancies from one
school to another. It is therefore essential that all the documents produced
be reviewed and recast into Kirundi. Teachers will have to be familiarized
with these new conditions as part of continuing training.
(b) Introduction of double-shift working. Since the beginning of the
1982-83 school year, Burundi has introduced the system of
double-working, for both premises and teachers, with the object of
raising the in-school rate, which was one of the lowest in Africa.
The rate has risen from 282 in 1981/82 to 60% in 1986/87.
The consequences of this introduction of double-shift working are as
follows:                                   I
-    modification of the weekly student timetable:  in the first and
second years, from 50 half-hour teaching sessions to 35 sessions; in
the second and fourth years, from 54 sessions to 39; and in the
fifth and sixth years, from 59 sessions also to 39. This reduction
at all levels obviously necessitates revision of curricula and
methods;
-    an increase in the number of hours per teacher since each has charge
successively of two groups of students per day. In view of this
increased workload, the teachers must be provided with continuing
training to widen their knowledge and information and strengthen
their competence and thereby better prepare them for double-shift
teaching.
Although the BER has begun the training of 7,000 teachers by
familiarizing them with the new curricula and the methods underlying them, a
major effort remains to be accomplished to adapt fully to ths new situation.
The same applies to the RPP, which since taking over the activities originally
entrusted to the BER has published the documents for use by teachers; from



-80 -                        ANNEX 3.5
Page 5 of 9
1974 to 1986 it produced and distributed 122 titles. These textbooks are
produced at the rate of one book per teacher and one book for every two
students. The only student textbooks published so far have been on French and
Kirundi. Teachers' books have been produced for the various levels on study
of the environment, arithmetic, and physical education. Only documentation is
available on agricultural practical work and family economics. Since it was
established in the form of an independent unit or regie, the RPP has
continued the BER's publication work and has distributed 48 titles.
III.   ObJectives of the Component
3.        Continuous training of teachers in post
In light of the new conditions the BER is having to radically
redesign continuous training in order to:
-    base the system on regional centers, urniformly distributed across
the country, giving teachers access to documentation and providing
continuing training;,
-    revise continuing training so as to consolidate the knowledge and
strengthen the competence of the less qualified teachers through
long courses;
-    monitor the teaching activities and coordinate the work of
supervision of the regional and cantonal iuspectors in order to
identify shortcomings and difficulties that need to be remedied
during the courses and to evaluate the impact of the latter;
-    train and recruit a specialist corps of teachers in the EFIs/CRPDs
so as to produce teachers fitted to take over the continuing
training activities started by the BER.
4.        Production and distribution of improved teaching documentation
This goal stems from the introduction of double-shift working but
also, particularly, from the general Kirundization of teaching. It will
necessitate:
-    revision of teaching documents by the BER's research and design
units;                   j
-    their publication by the RPP;
-    their distribution in all primary schools;
-    monitoring of the taking into use of these documents.
5.        Making the "school public" aware of family planning problems
The purpose is to arouse an awareness in teachers of the problems
for the country's development created by rapid populatio  growth so that they
can in turn, in their teaching, prepare young people to take a responsible



- 8:-                         ANNEX 3.5
Page 6 of 9
approach to their sexual life and to take their place as adults aware of the
active part they can play individually in regard to these problems.
IV.       Strategies to Achieve these Goals
6.        The following strategies will be implemented to achieve the three
sets of goals listed above:
(a) Continuing training of teachers
This will result from the "cascade" training of regional and
cantonal inspectors, school principals and teacher training school instructors.
Provision is in fact made 'or three types of teacher training:
-    in-service training by school principals;
-    training by means of one-day courses and/or teachers' conferences,
led by the inspectors;
-    long courses held in the teacher training schools (EFIs), led by EFI
instructors.
The role of the BER and its leadership staff is to act at these
three levels by preparing curricula and supervising their implementation. It
also participates in the training of senior staff (instructor training).
The following activities are scheduled for these various training
levels:
(i)    Training of teacher training school instructors.  This will be given
during the short vacations by BEPES professionals (and, with regard
to the part relating to primary education teaching methods, by BER
professionals);
(ii)    Continuing training of regional and cantonal primary education
inspectors. These will be provided with a long course, spread over
two years (40 + 40 days), so as to fit them to monitor teaching
performance, identify the difficulties to be resolved by continuing
training, evaluate the impact of the activities addressed to the
teaching body, and coordinate leadership in teaching methods
(one-day courses for teachers);
(iii)    Continuing training of school principals.  This will be given in the
form of a long course (45 days) designed to enable them to play an
active educational role in their schools;
(iv)    Continuing training of teachers.  This will be done by:
-    organizing close supervision of teachers at workplaces by school
principals;



- 82 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 7 of 9
organizing one-day educational sessions for each school canton, led
by s-.hool principals and inspectors, in accordance with a timetable
and program drawn up by the BER;
organizing monitoring in the field, by school regions, coordinating
the supplementary activities of the BER specialists, regional
inspectors, cantonal inspectors and principals;
organizing sufficiently long training courses.  To ensure that such
courses will be effective, it will be necessary to:
-    firm up the objectives of the courses by monitoring prior to
their organization, by direct surveys or through the inspectors
and principals;
-    spread these 55-day courses over three years so as to train the
5,000 teachers involved in the 15 regional centers.
For this teacher training to be successful, it will be necessary:
(i)    to convert 15 teacher training schools into documentation and
teaching methodology centers, by equipping them with:
-    adequate documentation;
-    filing racks;
--   aconference room in each center;
-   minimum teaching aids;
(ii)    to appoint in the teacher training schools a corps of instructors
trained and specialized in the tasks that will be entrusted to them,
by:
-    organizing specific training for these teachers before they are
recruited (by means of courses and, if necessary, a
correspondence course);
-    particularly intensive monitoring of the teacher training
school EFI instructors.
(b)  Strengthenina the qualifications of BER personnel, by:
-    holding internal courses through which designers and supervisors can
obtain a sufficiently wide view to serve as leaders of primary
school teachers instead of their view being limited to a specific
primary school subject;
-    providing the staff with the physical resources they need to perform
their educational supervision and monitoring functions.



- 83 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 8 of 9
(c) guantitative and qualitative expansion of pedagogic documentation,
by providing the RPP with part of the resources it needs to print
teaching documents. A list of the documents that need to be printed
and distributed by the RPP is given in Annex 3.7.
(d) Making the "school public" aware of family planning problems, by:
-    incorporating training in sex and family education problems into the
courses for principals and inspectors so that they can in turn pass
on the information and messages to students;
-    organizing one-day conferences on these topics for teachers in
service;
-    training teacher training school instructors in these subjects
through a course that brings together instructors in the topics
concerned or motivated teachers;
-    distributing a booklet intended for children in the fifth and sixth
years of primary school, which will be prepared by Ministry of
Health experts in collaboration with BER educators.
V.  Coordination of Training Activities under the Project
7.        In view of the large number of agencies involved in teacher
training, it is planned to set up an Educational Activities Coordination
Committee (CCAP) which will ensure, in particular:
(a)  that the training curricula for teachers in post, inspectors and
school principals are prepared sufficiently in advance;
(b) that the physical organization of the courses is sound (convening of
trainees, remittance of travel expenses, reservation of boarding
places, withdrawal of funds for boarding and subsistence expenses,
preparation of the necessary teaching aids: duplicating machines,
paper, ink, teachers' guides, etc.);
(c) that the project principal (BER) and the potential participants
(inspectors, teacher training school instructors) are ready to lead
the courses and, in particular, that their activity programs are in
final form; I
(d) that the courses proceed in accordance with the program drawn up
and, in particular, that the listed trainees are all present, the
course program and time-use chart are respected, and the goals are
achieved (if they are not, the Committee will recommend measures to
remedy the situation);
(e) that regular follow-up of the trainees is carried out at their
workplaces and under normal conditions;
(f)  that permanent contacts are maintained with all the agencies
involved in educational activities - GER, BEPES, CRPDs, teacher
training schools, inspectors, RPP. These contacts include periodic



- 84 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 9 of 9
cot.sultation and internal seminars on course organization and the preparation
of course documents.
8.        The CCAP is composed of all the directors of the departments
involved in the project (Primary and Secondary Education, BEPES, BER, DPE,
BPE, RPP), who meet periodically when called by their chairman, the Director
of Basic Education. The CCAP has a Permanent Secretariat to carry out the
day-to-day work. The Permanent Secretariat is not a decision-making organ,
but implements the decisions taken by the CCAP. Nor is it an executive
organ. Its role is to ensure that the activities described above are promptly
carried out and to report to the CCAP on this. The latter in turn reports to
the Minister of National Education and the World Bank through the BPE. For
that purpose the CCAP prepares quarterly reports and also interim information
bulletins where justified by unusual events. The Permanent Secretariat of the
CCAP centralizes equipment orders by collecting the lists in good time,
submitting them to the CCAP (which ensures that they conform to the spirit of
the project) and then transmitting them to the financing agencies (UNICEF,
BPE, etc.) It also supervises the preparation of educational documents by the
aPP and their distribution to the teachers and students. It reports to the
CCAP on major incidents and delays and proposes alternative solutions to any
problems that arise. Finally, the Permanent Secretariat prepares and calls
the monthly meetings of the CCAP, issuing convening notices and preparing the
agendas and reports to be discussed at the meetings.
9.        Staff of the Permanent Secretariat of the CCAP.  The Permanent
Secretariat consists of three experienced educators, two of them specialists
in primary school and the other in secondary school teaching activities.
These two (sic) specialists will be selected by the Minister of National
Education on the proposal of the Directors of the BER and the BEPES.  *rhe tco
educators will have to have a minimum of ten years experience, including at
least three years in teacher and instructor training. They will also need to
have a good feel for personal relations, ability to draft reports and
documents, and readiness to travel frequently in the field.
10.       Technical assistance.  During the first three years of activity, the
two educators assigned to the Permanent Secretariat of the CCAP will be
assisted by a technical advisor responsible for helping them to master their
future tasks. This technical assistant is himself an experienced educator
specializing in project management and training organization.
11.       Technical support for the Permanent Secretariat.  Technical support
for the Permanent Secretariat will be furnished chiefly by the BPE, which will
have to make available to it permanently one of the three secretaries from the
Office of the Director together with the necessary typewriters and paper for
preparation and publication of the reports. In addition, the BER and BEPES
will have to help the Permanent Secretariat with its travel needs outside
Bujumbura. Finally, the BPE will make a vehicle available to the Permanent
Secretariat whenever necessary. The mission expenses of the members of the
Permanent Secretariat will be met through the appropriations provided for the
BPE.
Note:     Supplementary details on the resources to be deployed and their
costs and execution timetable are given in the working document entitled
"Qualitative Improvement of Primary Education."



- 85 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT OF GENERAL SECONDARY EDUCATION
I.   Review of Situation at Start-Up
1.        Statistical Data
The educational establishments affected by this component are:
-    the colleges (junior secondary schools), i.e. 17 schools that
include only the first cycle;
-    the 21 EFIs (Teacher Training Institutes) that include a first
education cycle in addition to their two years of vocational
training;
-    the Iycees (secondary schools), i.e. 20 schools that include both
first and second general education cycles.
Taking into account the two-cycle schools, this gives the following
number of classes (school year 1986/87):
First crcle                              Second cycle
7th:  130    3rd IM:   15              2nd IM:    15    1st LM:    12
6th:  102    3rd Sc.:  20              2nd Sc.A:  10    1st IM:    10
5th:   90                              2nd Sc.B:  20    1st Sc.B:  20
Teacher training schools:  1st year 20    2nd year 19
This gives a total of 566 classes.
The component therefore concerns 19,800 students, supervised by
1,650 persons (direction, supervisors, teachers) of whom about 600 are
responsible for science teaching and 800 for arts and the humanities.
During the next five years the number of schools will rise by about
ten units, including five for primary-teacher training.



- 86 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 2 of 8
2.        Administrative system
The Office of Secondary Education Curriculum Studies (BEPES) was
established to act as project manager in the reform of secondary education and
to implement the general directives. Its purposes and its physical and human
resources are summarized below. Details of the work already accomplished by
BEPES experts are included in the working document at the end of this Annex.
(a) Purposes of BEPES
Beginning with school year 1973/74 the Government of Burundi
undertook a reform of the education system. The agencies responsible for
implementing the decisions taken will be set up stage by stage. BEPES was
established in September 1976 in the context of reorganization of the entire
education system. Its purpose is to pursue in secondary education the reform
started in primary education by the Rural Education Office (BER), by:
-    conducting basic educational research;
-    initiating educational activities leading to changes in school
curricula;
-    drafting manuals setting forth new methodologies;
-    assisting teachqrs in post through courses and monitoring;
-    evaluating the education system in order to identify any necessary
modifications and improvements.
(b) Resources
(i)    Staff:  Since it was set ui, BEPES has been assisted by two
bilateral cooperation agencies: Belgian aad French. In its first
year (1976/77) BEPES had 14 units: 9 Belgian, 3 French and 2
Burundian. These 14 units were distributed among 7 sections:
Education, Physics, Mathematics, French, Biology, English and
Agriculture.
Over the years the staff of BEPES has grown substantia. . is the
cooperation agencies have increased their personnel, other
cooperation agencies have added their assistance, and the Government
has assigned a larger staff to the Office, selected from among
experienced educators whothave demonstrated competence and dynamism
in the field.
As a result, BEPES now has the following staff:
- 62 Burundian experts
-   7 French cooperation agents
- 16 Belgian cooperation agents
-   4 Canadian cooperation agents
This gives a total of 89 experts, distributed among 16 general
education and 9 teacher training sections.



-87 -                          ANNEX 3.6
Page 3 of 8
(ii)    Physical resources:  AmonI the operational resources of the Office,
the print shop occupies a important place. All documents and books
prepared by the sections are entirely produced by the print shop,
whose equipment, though modest (an offset press, a duplicating and
photocopying shop, and a photographic laboratory) enables it to meet
the needs of the schools. BEPES also has an audiovisual unit which
furnishes the secondary schools with up-to-date teaching aids
through video, cinema, slides, sound recordings, educational
journals, etc. and thereby also seeks to improve the teachers'
cultural environment, and promotes the educational and cultural
development of the students outside school hours.
3.        Work accomplished so fpr
The general orientation given to general secondary education since
1976 puts the emphasis, in the case of science, technology, agriculture and
mathematics, on training in reasoaing through specific study of the resources
and means available in the environment, and in the case of arts on means of
communication, through active teaching of languages and language practice in
all school activities.
Curricula modified since 1976 to reflect these orientations have
been in use since the beginning of the 1981/82 school year.
Science curricula:
-    in physics and chemistry, in the lower cycle, the courses
incorporate demonstration experiments; in the upper cycle they are
supplemented by a limited number of selected practical work tasks;
-    biology teaching is directed to an ecological approach to the
environment in order to exploit fully the resources that it affords;
-    technology teaching is based on simple projects, the use of local
materials and the study of common local objects;
-    mathematics teaching promotes, through its methodologies, the
development of rigorous reasoning in addition to acquisition of the
knowledge essential for the other sciences;
in agriculture, theoretical instruction is accompanied by practical
work In school gardens but also in other areas that can help make
the schools self-financing;
In arts:
in French, the teaching language, the recommended methodologies aim,
through active methods, to inculcate a sufficient command of the
language to permit understanding and study in the other subjects.
To that end, out-of-school activities, the use of audiovisual aids
and strengthened reading practice are essential teaching aids;



- 88 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 4 of 8
-    in the first upper cycle, language teaching takes into account the
specific nature of each section. In addition, the teaching of
English is developing substantially at this level in view of
Burundi's geographic location;
-    the Kirundi language, taught in secondary school, owes its
importance to the fact that, as the country's only language, it
serves as the vehicle for all cultural values and will remain the
medium of contact between the rural population and those with access
to a higher level of training.
The means deployed to apply these programs are as follows:
(i)    publications, prepared in Burundi for the first cycle and certain
elements of the second cycle or imported for the second cycle, as
follows:
teacher's manuals are in place for all classes of the first cycle
and are helping to alleviate the shortcomings of the teachers'
initial training; student's textbooks are also distributed for
mathematics, technology, biology, French and English. Substantial
work remains to be done! in the case of the Kirundi language;
:booklets have been prepared for both cycles allowing the utilization
of local resources or dealing with specific subjects:
-= practical work manuals describing possible experiments and
research projects and how they can be used in teaching;
3-   preparation and testing of a manual explaining how to
manufacture physics equipment to be made by the students;
--   technology booklets on various local technology applications;
--   publication of works on the local natural environment;
--   publication of booklets on initiation into techniques of oral
and written communication in French;
--   issue of a manual "Aftermath" for teaching English in the
science sections;
(ii)    phased issue of documentation for use by teachers;
(iii)    physical resources:  work has been done on improving physical
conditions - group purchase of consumable supplies for the chemical
laboratory work (distributed by the Education Office), local
manufacture of "battery sets with charger," which help to make up
for the lack of electrification.



- 89 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 5 of 8
Continuing training, which has already started, seeks through
courses of about a week to impart to the teachers the competence and know-how
they need in order to institute:
-    physics and chemistry practical work courses;
-    ecology and physiology courses in biology;
-    technology courses;
-    ccurses in initiation into the manufacture of small physics
equipment;
-    courses in geometry and scientific drawing in mathematics;
-    training courses in active language teaching (English and French).
Evaluation through the National Test at the end of the second cycle
(from 1981 to 1986) provides a means of estimating the progress accomplished
and also of noting any gaps that remain to be filled.
4.        Shortcomings that could hamper the quantitative development of
general secondary education
General secondary education should not aim solely at the pursuit of
higher education but should also help the students to fit into the various
segments of active life. It should therefore emphasize the formation of
intelligence and should not be limited to the acquisition of knowledge. This
.ntellectual development, which alone can give the students the ability to
adapt to their later vocational environment, involves theoretical and
practical study of scientific subjects and calls for a proper command of means
of communication.
While the projects referred to above have undoubtedly modified the
tendency toward excessive formalism, much work remains to be done to remedy
the shortcomings:
-    in the education system itself, through increased emphasis on:
-    practical-work activities (technology, agriculture, science,
etc.);
-    intellectual-development activities (active education, numerous
evaluation or deductive exercises that make demands on the
intelligence);
-    practical work in communication (reading practice, out-of-
school self-expression activities, and so on);



- 90 -                         ANNEX 3.6
Page 6 of 8
-    in the teaching staff, by:
--   supplementing the teachers' initial training to enable them to
closer account in their teaching work of the students and of
the goals of secondary education and gradually move away from
the present formalism;
--   improving che stability of the teaching staff through better
management of transfers and assignments and continuity of
functions, leading gradually to specialization (avoiding
teachers being assigned several subjects alternatively without
any apparent reason). This stability is essential to the
efficiency of continuing training;
-     ±il teaching conditions, by:
-- ensuring the existence of the minimum physical facilities
required for teaching.
II.   Purpose of the Component
5.        Supplementing the activities already carried out and those planned
between now and 1988, the project will contribute to the qualitative
improvement of general secondary education by helping to improve science,
agriculture, technology and mathematics teaching and stepping up the teaching
of languages to make them effective means of communication. The project will
thus help to achieve the goal pursued since 1976 of ensuring that the training
the students receive facilitates their entry into active life.
III.   Strategies to be Followed to Achieve the Goals
6.        To achieve these goals, the project must accomplish the following in
five years:
(a) enhance both the pedagogic and scientific quality of the teaching
body, by:
-    organizing further training sessions (courses) during which the
teachers will have an opportunity to:
-- exchange notes on their experiences and difficulties;
-    obtain supplemental training geared to their special subjects;
-    do practical work (science experiments, practice active science
and arts classes, perform simulation exercises, etc.);
-    hone their teaching skills;
-    stepping up teacher monitoring which, like that applied now, makes
it possible to:



-91 -                          ANNEX 3.6
Page 7 of 8
--   diagnose the major difficulties so as to adjust refreshez and
advanced training to make them more effective;
give special attention to the specific working conditions of
each individual teacher so as to refine and adapt the
contributions of the courses accordingly;
--   informally evaluate the activ'ties undertaken;
increasing the documentation available to the teachers to enable
them to pursue their science training on their own and give them
local access to a minimum number of basic textbooks;
(b) ensure minimum conditions for experimentation and practical study,
by.,
ensuring that each secondary school possesses a room with a water
point and DC electricity source if the school does not have a
permanent electricity supply. The intention is, while refusing to
equip each school with specialized laboratories, the cost of which
would be prohibitive and ir.appropriate, to furnish each school with
facilities for simple experiments without tying up premises which
will be available for use at any time for other activities, if
necessary;
equi'pping each school with minimum science education material,
purchasing abroad whatever material cannot be manufactured using
local resources. In the case of technology, most of the teaching
aids can be constructed locally; in physics, imports can be limited,
thanks to the small equipment already tried out and presented in the
manual on "Equipment You Can Make Yourself";
providing each school with cabinets to hold the science equipment
and documentation;
setting up, within th3 BEPES, a working fund of chemistry supplies
and replaceable physics and chemistry equipment. This working fund
will supply the schools, which will purchase from it. The amounts
collected in this way can be used to replenish the working fund and
make it self-sufficient in the short range;
(c) promote practice in and command of the means of communication that
are essential to the transmission of knowledge and acquisition of
the skills developed in the rest of the teaching, by:
holding courses for arts teachers so as to promote an active
teaching methodology and develop the know-how needed to stimulate
greater student participation, which will enable them to produce
work, both oral and written, with greater facility and of a higher
standard;
strengthening educational monitoring of the teachers;



- 92 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 8 of 8
-    providing the schools with libraries and a supply of reading books
(literary, light reading and popular science works).
These actions should provide opportunities to practice the French
language outside the course hours and to absorb its structure and
vocabulary better.
(d) supplement these strategies for training teachers to teach specific
disciplines by training them in the education of secondary-school
students on sex, population and family topics.
Since population is an important problem in Burundi, the Ministry of
National Education will need to collaborate in education and
awareness-arousing, which are important development objectives. The
project will therefore have to:
-    provide a training course for secondary school teachers in education
on sex, family and population. The course will be addressed to
teachers in the pertinent disciplines of general secondary and
technical education (biology, geography, civics);
publish a document on these topics for students in the final classes
of the first cycle. This document will have to be prepared by
Ministry of Health experts in collaboration with the education
offices;
=    publish a detailed information manual for the teachers concerned.
Note:     Supplementary details concerning the resources to be deployed and
their cost and execution timetable are given in the working document
entitled "Qualitative Improvement of General Secondary Education and
Teacher Training."
1.I



- 93 -
Glossary
Translator's Note
Some English titles used in the body of Report 6913-BU differ
from the ones used in this translation.   They are shown below
in italics.   (The report became available too late for them
to be incorporated into the translation).
BCS       Bureau de la Carte Scolaire
School Mapping Office
BEET      Jureau d'Etudes de Enseignement Technique
Technical Education Studies Office
Technical Education Bureau
BEPES     Bureau d'Etudes des Programmes de l'Education Secondaire
Office of Secondary Education Curriculum Studies
Secondary Education Bureau
BER       Bureau d'Education Rurale
Rural Education Office
Rural Primary Education Bureau
BPE       Bureau de la Planification de l'Education
E:ducation Planning Office
CCAP      Comite de Coordination des Activit6s P6dagogiques
Edecational Activities Coordination Committee
Coordinating Committee for Education Activities
CIPRH     Commission Interministe'rielle de Planification des Ressources
Humaines
Inter-Ministerial Committee on Human Resource Planning
College:  Junior secondary school
DEP       Direction de l'Enseignement Primaire
Primary Education Directorate
DGEB      Direction G6n6rale de l'Enseignement de Base
General Directorate of Basic Education
DPE       Direction de la Planification de l'Education
Education Planning Directorate
Directorate of Educational Planning
EFI       Ecole de Formation des Instituteurs
Teacher Training h.iool
Teacher Training Institute



- 93 - (bis) /
Lycee:    Senior secondary school
PEP       Programme des Depenses Publiques
Public Expenditure Program
PIP       Plan des Investissements Publics
Public Expenditure Plan
RPP       R6gie de Production Pedagogique
Educational Materials Printing Unit
SOS       Service de l'Orientation Scolaire
Student Counselling Service
SPCS      Service du Plan et de la Carte Scolaire
Planning and School Mapping Service
SSS       Service des Statistiques Scolaires
Education Statistics Service



-  94 -                                         ANNEX  3.7
REPUBLIC  OF  BURUNDI/REPUBLIqUE  DU  BURUNDI                                  Page  1 of 3
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET D'. DEVELOPPEMENT  DU  SECTEUR EDUCATION
LIST OF TEXTBOOKS TO BE PRINTED DUJRING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION/
LISTE DES LLVRES A IMPRIMER PENDANT LA DUREE DU PROJET
Axnne 1988/89
TITRE DU OCUMENT         tirage    Nbr        Total
Annee  1987/88                                        __                 _               pages      pages
CALCUL
-ITPE W  DOCIKKT  tir"e    -br  Total          Fichier *4me               8000     300      2 400 000
TmTRE W'U DOCUMENT       r1rage    P"         Tot 1,  Livre OlIve 3e degre   180000                      150     27 000 000
CALCUL                                                                ETUDE WU MILIEU
Fichier du mattre 44.  6.000        300    1 goo 000                  Fichier 4&me              8000     140       1120 000
L1vre eilve 2e degrl 160.000       1I0   24 000 000                   KIRUNDI
KIRUNDI                                                               Fichier 5loe              8000      56        448 000
L1vret de rldactlon    24.000C       s0    1 200 000                  Livret lect.1,2,3       2400oo      56    13 440 000
Fichier She             6.000        90      640 ODO                  Kirundi 34.L.E.          80000      84      6 720 000
EDICATION PHYSIQUE                                                    FRJUCAIS
Fichier Shme            6.000       150      900 000                  Francais 54 F.M.          8000    452        3 616 000
T.P. 1                                                                Frangals 34 L.E.         80000      SO      4 000 M00
Fraegais 34 F.M.          8000     544      4 352 000
Les principales cult.   6.000        SO      300 000                                             -                  _
ECONOMIE FAlILIALE
FRAliCAI5S.                                                           Hygi#ne et dueat10n       8000      so        640 000
frangais Se glove      80.00G       566  44 480 000
(4 parties)                  _.                                       EDUCAIION PHYSIQUE
ECOIONIE FAMILIALE                                                    Fichier 6#me              8000       68        544 000
biolioration habitat   8.000         80      640 000                  T.P.A.
ETUDE DU MILIEU_                                                      Principaux parasites      8000       68        544 COO
fichier maitre So       6.000        80      480 000
Annge  1989/90                                                      Annge  1990/91
TI-RE DU DOCMWT          Tirage    Sr        total                  tI RE DU DOCUMENT        Tirag#   Mlbr        Total
-pages    PageS                                                     pages     pages
FRANCAIS                                                            FRANCAIS
Franrais St. Elave       1OO 000    424    42 400 000               Fran;ais 5#. ElIve       100 000    424    42 400 100
Francais 44.Elve          80 000    100       8CO 000               Francais 4e.Elve          80 000    100       800 000
ECONOMIC FAMILIALE                                                  ECONOMIE FAMILIALE
Utilisatlon budget         8 000     60       480 000               Utilisatton bdget          8 000     60       480 000
famiI All______                                                    fallfal                  800       6         8   0
T.P.A.                                                              T.P.A.
La preparation, et         8 ooo     60       48  00                La prlparation et          8 000     60       480 000
entretien jardin            -        - 60     480 OOo               entretien Jpadin           8_00      6_40_0
KIRUNDI                                                             KIRUNDI
Contes rundi 1,2,3       240 000     60    14 400 000               Contes rundi 1,2,3       240 000     60    14 400 000
ETUDE DU MILIEU                                                     ETUDE W  MNILIEU
Fichier 5eme maltre        8 000    150     1 200OD0                Fichier 54me mattre        8 000    1SO     1200 000
CA.CUL                                                              CA_CUL                                   I
Flchier lre               8 000    240     1 920000               Fichier lre                8 000    240      1920 WO



-95                                             ANNEX 3.7
Page 2 of 3
NEEDS OF PRIMARY EDUCATION/
BESOINS POUR L'ENSEIGNEHENT PRIMAIRE
TITRE DU OOCU1MENT       Tirge    Nbr        Total
pages    pages
KIRUNDI
Fichier lire              10 000     120   1 200 000
Fichier 2bae                OfOm     120   1200 000
Dusome lire              100 000      80   80D 000
Fichier 2im               10000      150   1500 000
Ousow 24me               100 000      80   8000 000
Fichier 3iwe              10 000     300   3000 000
FRANCAIS
Frangais si, 4Om P      100 000      128  12 80 000
Fichier Maitre Si         10 000     452   4 520 000
ETUDE DU MILIEU
Guide mithodologique      10 000      30     300 000
Fichier 6Wme              10 000     190   1 900 000
T.P.A.
Priparation des leg.      10 000      60     600 000
Sylviculture              10 000      44     440 000
ECONOMIE FAMILIALE
Turyohore ivyo tiuirim.   10 000      561  560 000
NEEDS OF SECONDARY EDUCATION/
BESOINS POUR E'ENSEIGNENENT SECONDAIRE
TITRE ODU DOCMT          Tirage      Nbr        Total                 TITRE ODU OCUMENT         Tirage     Nbr        Total
pages      pages                                                      pages     pages
PNS1flUE                                                              AN6LAIS
Exercices. Stat. solid.  2000         64       128 000                Textes compldsentaires    3000        88      264 000
T.P. 'hysique             2000        68       136 000                t       c                  3000       88     264 000
TECIHOLOGIE                                                           KIRUNDI
Livre Glive 7niue         8000        48       384 000                4 ti tres pour le          8000       64      512000
Ltvre Olive 68ma          7000        32       224 000                premier cycle              7000       64      448000
L1vre lhve Sime           6000        40       240 000
_                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6000  64  384000
MiTfS                                                                                            5000       64      32C000
Llvre Olive 7&ue          8000       119       952 000                SCIENCES
Livre Olive 6She I        7000        78       546 000                4 lIvrets de T.P.          2000       88      176000
Livre Olive n6a  II       7000        76       532 000
2000       88     176000
L1vre MIt ve Same 1       6000       132       792 oo                                            2000       88      176000
Llvre  lihve SAme II      6000       120      .720.000                                           2000       88      176000
Ltvre Olive 4me 1         SO0O       100      50 000 *                                            -
LIvre Olive 4hme II       S000       128       640 000                SCIENCES HUNAINEI.
tHI-IE                                                                Economie 1 tltre           5000        64     320000
.Hstoire 1  titre            7000        88     616000
T.P. 23h L.E.             2000        56       112 000



- 96 -
ANNEX 3.7
Page 3 of 3
BESOINS POUR L'ENSEIGNEMENT SFCONDAIRE (suite)
TITRE W  DOCUNENI         Tirage     Nbr        Total
pages     pages
ANGLAIS
English skills  I          7000    - 219   1 533 000.
English skills II-         6000         75     450 000
English skills III         5000        120     600 000
English skills IV          2500        71      177 500
Aftermath 2de              4000         84     366 000
Aftermath lire             .4000       100     400 000
BIOLOGIE
L.E. 7lme I                8000         52     416 000
L.E. 7eme II               8000         72     576 000
L.E. 6me I                 7000         76     532 000
L.E. 60me II               7000         60     420 000
L.E. 36me I                6000         94     564 000
L.E. 5ime II               6000        102     612 000
L.E. 4&ue                  6000        106     530 000
Embryologie lire           2000        48.      96 000
'Physiologit du muscle      2000        24       48 000
Observation de protistes  3000          31      93 000
FRANCAIS
Tradition et modernisme   3000         184     512 000
Comunication orale I       3000        85      264 000
Communication orale II    3000          85     264 000



* BUREAU DES ARCHITECT ES
SERVICE FINAaVCIER
0
|SERVICE DU PERSONNEL                  (Am
SERVICE COMMERCIAL                   _z m
. 06 O
(A 
CALCUL SALAIRES                        r.                    m
>             0
m
ATELIERS           .T
-~0
0
GARAGE
-4          f-I,-G
r<         m
z   z
m            >         0G
m
COPABILITE                       _m
_   _  __o_         _  _  _m
m
I                 z~~~~~~~0c
PASSATION  DES MARCHES   _          2, v
ISURVEILLANCE DES TRAVEAUX                            0m
sa&  na zJmWDIx"xO
saa zu o floI9IRo
IanlllS naQ anlbIqagflmi/INhifUs .10 Di7a1lln
e'xawX                              - L6 -



- 98 -                               ANNEX 3.9
Page.l1of 4
REPUBLIC OF BUORNDIIRZP?JBLIQUE DU LBURDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOEPHNT PROJECTI
PROJET DR DVI0LOPP3EENT DU SECrWR EDUCATION
CONSTRCTION STRATEGIES FOR PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDWCATION SCHOOLS 
STRATEGIES DR CONSTRUCTION POUR 8COLBS PRInAIRE ET SEOONIRES
A.       Primarn Schools
1.       Scope.  This sub-component includes funds for the constructior,
furnishing and equipping of about 55 new primary schools (six classrooms,
one administrative office, and 12 latrines), plus a lump sum for the
renovation of existing schools.
2.       Phasing.  The sub-component would be implemented in two phases:
the first one over the first two years of project implementation and
including about 60S of the funds; and the second phase starting in the
third year of project implementation ar.d including the balance of available
funds. Funds for construction during the first phase (about 30 new primary
schools and about 60S of the funds for the renovation of existing schools)
would be available for disbursement at credit effectiveness. The remaining
funds would be released after the mid-term objectives included in the
sectoral adjustment program (Annex 3.1) are attained, and the approximately
15 primary schools included in the first-year construction program have
been satisfactorily completed.
3.       Implementation Program.  Prior to starting work, the Government
will submit a comprehensive program for the construction of the
approximately 15 schools to be built during the first year of project
implementation. This program would include all relevant information such
as school location (to be in accordance with the primary school map),
costs, and implementation schedule. In addition, the program would list
for each school (a) the required building materials to be procured and
delivered by the Government, (b) the required skilled labor, (c) the
participation of the coummnities, and (d) overhead and transport costs.
Six months after credit effectiveness, the Government would submit to IDA
for review and comment a construction program for approximately another 15
schools to be built during the second year of project implementation. The
program would include the same information as submitted for the first year
of implementation.
4.       Implementation - Civil Works.  The communities would have prime
responsibility for the construction and renovation of the primary schools.
The Governor's office and the Ddpartement des Constructions Scolaires
(DCS) would assist the communities in the implementation of this component.
The Director of the Bureau des Projets Education (BPE), in his capacity as
representative of the Ministry of Education (MEN), would have an oversight



- 99 -                            ANNEX 3.9
Page 2 of 4
and general coordination function for the operation, including liaison with
IDA. In accordance with the phased construction program (para. 2 above),
the MEN/DPE would allocate to each province a budget corresponding to its
list of schools to be implemented during that year. The budgets would
include all expenses to be borne by the Government, i.e., building
materials, skilled labor, transport, and DCS expenses, including DCS
overbsad and salaries. The budgets would be managed by BPE. Each governor
would receive vouchers for construction materials required for each site.
The vouchers would be labeled in favor of the respective schools.
Materials would be delivered by BPI to the building sites on presentation
of the relevant vouchers. DCS would provide the required skilled labor and
use the present system for managing and paying them.
5.       A Construction Technician (A2 or A3) would be seconded for the
duration of the primary school construction component from the SCS to each
governor's office. These technicians would supervise the building sites,
employ and pay the skilled laborers and, most importantly, ensure that
common construction errors are avoided. The primary school structures
presently being erected by the communities all suffer from the same major
construction defects, e.g., split masonry walls without ties and under-
dimensioned roof structures without sufficient slope. The construction
technicians will need to change the skilled laborers' present practices and
teach them appropriate techniques, using the same building materials. The
objective is not to develop a new basic shelter concept but to improve the
use of existing methods and construction materials. To regularly visit the
various building sites, each technician would be provided with a
motorcycle. BPE would finance repairs and maintenance costs and the
Governor's office would be responsible for providing fuel and oil. The
technicians would be supported administratively by the governors and
technically by DCS. An architect employed by DCS would supervise the work
of the technicians to ensure that this component is implemented on time and
in accordanee with sound building practices.
6.       Staffing.  The following staff would be recruited to ensure
adequate implementation of the component in accordance with objectives and
the project implementation schedule. BPE would not recruit or appoint any
staff who would be responsible solely for this component. DCS would employ
the following personnel:
Primary School Architects Coordination of the technical aspects
of implementation and technical oversight of the construction
technicians. CVs of candidates to be submitted to IDA for review,
and this position to be staffed during entire duration of
implementation of the component. The specialist to be recruited,
located, and paid with project funds by DCS.
Procurement Specialist: Procurement of all hardware: building
materials, materials, equipment, furniture, etc., included in the
scope of the entire project. C'Js of candidates to be submitted to
IDA for review and this position to be staffed during entire
duration of implementation of the component. Specialist to be
recruited, located, and paid with project funds by DCS.



- 100 -                           ANNEX 3.9
Page 3 of 4
Primary School Construction Technicians: DCS would recruit A2 or
A3 civil works technicians, one for each of the active provinces.
The duties and responsibilities of these technicians are described
in para 5 above. DCS would ensure that they have the required
experience and expertise and, when and if required, arrange for
any additional training that may be found necessary. A technician
should remain in post as long as there are project- related
activities in the particular province.
Accountants The accountant, with qualification acceptable to IDA,
would perform all accountancy duties related to the project and
would, in particular, work in close collaboration with the
procurement specialist, as both would be responsible together for
the overall management of the warehouses. The accountant would
remain employed by DCS for the duration of the project.
B.       Secondary Schools
7.       Scope and Cost.  The project includes funds for the construction
of three lower secondary schools of 400 places each, and for the renovation
of about 10 xisting secondary schools. The base costs for the three new
schools, are given in Annex 3.10:
(1) Kiremba (Ngozi)
(2) Gishubi (Gitega)
(3)  Tora (Bururi)
The costs, for the secondary schools to be renovated, are given in Annex
3.10:
(1) ETS de Kamenge
(2) Lycee de Muramvya
(3) EPI de Kanyinya
(4) EPI de Musenyl
(5) Lyc6e de Musinsira
(6) Lycde de Ngagara
(7) Lyc4e de Matara
(8) Lyc4e de Rusengo
(9) Lyc4e de Rohero
(l0)EPI de Mushasha



- 101 -                          ANNEX 3.9
Page 4 of 4
8.       Phasing.  As in the case of the primary school construction
program (para. 2), this sub-component would be implemented in t-wo identical
phases: 602 of the funds for construction during the first phase (about two
new secondary schools and about six existing schools to be renovated) would
be available for disbursement at credit effectiveness. The remaining funds
would be released, as in the case of the primary school sub-component.
after the mid-term objectives included in the sectoral adjustment program
are attained (Annex 3.1).
9.       Implementation-Renovation.  The School Construction Unit DCS has
been and is implementing practically all civil works included in previous
and ongoing education projects. Results are excellent and costs seem to be
reasonable compared to costs in the private sector. To (a) promote the
private sector, (b) limit the growth of the DCS parastatal functions, and
(c) compare the cost of work performed through force account with the cost
of work performed by the private sector, some of the civil works would be
performed entirely by the private sector   To this end and as a first step,
the renovation of at least two secordary schools would be performed by the
private sector. Two architectural consulting firms would prepare the
required bid documents and supervise construction activities. Construction
work would be performed by private contractors after local competitive
bidding, in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Simultaneously, SCS would
perform the renovations at two other secondary schools. A comparison of
the cost (including DCS overhead), time factor and quality of workmanship
would be made between the schools renovated through the private sector and
those renovated by DCS. Renovation of the six remaining secondary schools
would be performed by either the private sector or DCS, depending on their
respective performance records.
10.      Implementation - New Secondary Schools.  Construction of the three
new secondary schools would be performed by the private sector after ICB.
DCS would prepare the relevant bid documents and provide site supervision.
DCS may, if required, hire the services of private consulting firms to
perform or help perform the consulting tasks.
11.      Architectural Program.  Detailed specifications of work to be
performed at the 10 secondary schools to be renovated under the project,
were prepared by DCS and form a part of the project working pA, -s. The
estimated costs, based on these specifications and for each schouw, are
given in para 7 above. The architectural program for the proposed three
new lower secondary schools is as follows: working drawings have been
prepared by DCS and reviewed by IDA. Bid documents are to be prepared by
DCS with the assistance of a private consulting firm. Contracts would be
awarded after ICB and site supervision would be performed by DCS.



- 102 -
ANNEX 3.10
Page 1 of9
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
PP.OJECT COSTS BY SOURCE OF FINANCING/CATEGORY/
COUTS DU PROJET PAR SOURCE DE FINANCEIIENT/CATEGORIE
(FBJ Nillion)                (USe '000)                       I Total
---- ----- - - - 2 Foreign BaOe
Local Foreign Total       Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
5Zv=T   a=&&= gEagag  =lZSU=  33ax        g c an UaggJ  UZ3s v8v=  w
I, INVESThENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VORES
Reconversion ecoles Sec              140.4   566.4   706.8   11511.  4,642.6  5,793.7              80       18
Construction  Co                      69.4   279.8   349,2      560.7  2t293#8  2s862.5           80         9
Nateriaux de Construction                -   355.8   35518           -  2,916.1  2,916.1          100        9
participation parents                 51.7       -    51.7      423.4         -    423.4            -        I
Owurierst Techn. 02, Superv.          81.2    20.5   101.7      665.9    168.0    833.9           20         3
SCS-AdB/Fonctin.flransport           187.4   283.5   470.9   1,535.7  2,324.1  3,859.8             60       12
SCS-Assistance Technioue              64.6   260.7   325.3      529.2  2,137.0  2,666#2           80         8
Sub-Total CIVIL MORES                   594.6 1,766.8 2,361.4   4,874.0 14,481,6 19,355.6             75       59
B. ESUIPEHENT
Eguieteent                               -   357,6   357.6           -  2,930,9  2W930.9          100        9
Vehicules                                -   149.4   149.4           -  1t224.2  1t224,2          100        4
Nobilier                              18.8    76,0    94.8       154.4    622.9    777.4           80        2
Sub-Total EGUIPEIENT                     18.8   582.9   601.8       154.4  4,778.0  4,932,5           97       15
C. ASSISTANCE TECNNIQUE
Consultants                              -   1 1.2   191,2           -  1,567.1  19567.1          100        5
Bourses                                  -   257,8   257.8           -  2,113,2  2t113.2          100        6
Seginaires                           2154    54.4   269.8   1,765,9    445.6  2,211.5            20         7
Sub-Total ASSISTANCE TECHNIEUE          215.4   503.4   718.8   19765,9  4,125,9  5,891.8             70        18
0, FRAIS RECURRENT
Salaires                             240.9    27.0   267.9   1,974.6    m21.5  2,196.1             10        7
Vehicules/Eeuipeeent                   4.2    37.6    41.8        34.1    308.5    342.5           90        1
Fonctionnhent                         30,5      7.7    38.2      250.1     63.1    313.3           20        1
Sub-Total FRAIS RECURRENT               275.6    72.4   347.9   2,258.8    593.1  2M851.9             21         9
Total BASELINE COSTS                      1,104.5 29925,4 4,029,9   99053,1 23t978.6 33,031.8             73       100
PhHsical Contingencies                    63.5   180.0   243.5       520.9  1,475,4  1,996.3           74        6
Price Contingencies                      184.4   112.4   296.8   16S11.6    921.6  2,433.2             38        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                       1,352.4 3,217.8 4,570.3  11,085#6 26,375.6 37.461.2             70       113
= c c33berQ m3 _, M== =
Deceeber 23, 1987 09ts?



-  103-                                           ANNEX  3.10
Page 2 of 9
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATIOU
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS/
RECAPITULATION DES COUTS DU PROJET
(Fnu lillion)               (US  '000)                      X Total
I Foteign   Das
Local Foreign Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Excwne    Costs
At A, MEN
PIAIFICATION ADIINISMTI0N            47.3  153.9   201,2    387*9  14261.3  19649.2             76        5
Subotal A. HEN                          47.3  153.9   201,2      387.9  19261.3  1,649.2           76        S
B. 8. QAUITATIF
D.l. PeINAIE                       341.2  393.0   734.2   2.796,5  3.221,3  6.017,8            54        19
a,2, SECONAIRE                       59.3   16eU0   227.3     486.3  14377.0  1,863.2          74         6
Sub-Total  . to    UITATIF             400#5   561.0   961.5   3.282*7  4.598*3  7.881,0           58       24
C. C.  JANTITATIF
C.1. MRINAIRE                       274.5   692.5   966.9   2t249,8  59675.9  7,925.7           72       24
C.2. SECONDAIRE                    337.2 1t267*5 1.604.7   2.764U3 10.389o1 13,153*3            79       40
Sub-Total C. (NIANTITATIF              611.7 1.959.9 2,571.6   5.014.1 164065.0 219079,1           76       64
D. D. AWs DU PROJET
D.l.   B.P.E.                        44.9    56.6   101.6     3684    464.1    832.5           56         3
0.2.       DOURSES 88                   -   194.0   194.0         -  1.590#0  1.59040          100        5
Sut-Total D. ADi. DU PROJET             44.9   250.6  2M5*5       368.4  2.054.1  20422*5          85        7
Total HASELINE COSTS                   1W104#5 2.925,4 4,029.9   9.053.1 23p978.6 33.031,8           73      100
Piwical Contingencies                  63*5   180,0   243.5     520.9  1.475.4  1,996*3          74         6
Price Centingencies                   184.4   112.4   296,8   16511.6    921.6  2.433.2           38        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                    19352*4 3W217.8 4,570.3  11.085.6 26.375.6 37#461.2           70      113
32=c_32s;322322223323   33333s2: s3222333  33u33  3_2332223  3333332
Deceuber 23. 1987 09:52



- 104 -
ANNEX 3.10
Page 3 of 9
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
COSTS BY ITEMl AND BY SOURCE OF FINANCING/CATEGORY/
DEPENSES PAR RUBRIQUE ET PAR SOURCE DE FINANCEMENT/CATEG..S:IE
(fIi   Millions)
A. NEN       8.  IUTATIF         .     ITATI t . Be UN N SMM                   WiTuiel
Cmntinuvies
ANIFICAtION   3.1.      8,2.      C.o.      C.2.     Dot s    .2.             -
AUn  STIUN FNINAIE ECONDAI   PRINARE SECONDAIRE IEP.E. IBRS Q  To1a              Z 1A mt
1.  UJETT COSTS
A. CIVlM  0
gmion scolv Sc                             -       -        1.3        -     705.6       -         -   706.8  10.0   70.7
Constin  CO                                -       -         -         -     3492                       349.2  10.0   34.9
terii  de Cnst,ution                       -       -          -    355*8                 -         -   355.8   0.0    0.0
Participation paents                       -       -         -      51.7         -       -         -    51.7   00    0,0
Ouwrims Ted. 02. Sue.-   -                                   -    101.7          -       -         -   101.7   0.0    0.0
SCS-AdaFonctla.JTrwmort                    -       -          -    254,3     216,6       -         -   470.9   2.3   10.6
-sistance tcmeu                            -       -          -    116.2     209.1       -         -   325.3   6.4   20.9
-Totl tIVILES                                 -       -        1.3    879,6   1,480.5      -          - 2.361.4   5.8  137.1
b. EDIFET
EAuiPut                                 39.8   197.3      120,5        -         -       -         -   357.6  10.0   35*8
uiculets                                 6.0    37.1        8.5        -      9.7        -         -   1494   10.0   14.9
Nobilier                                 7.5       -         -      89,3         -       -         -    9.8   0.8    0.0
iTotal EUIMET                              53.    234.4      129.0     87.3      97.7      -          -   60t.8   8.5   51.4
C. ASSISTANCE TEMIOIIE
Comultan                                59,1    73.3         -         -      26.5   32.3          -   191.2   4.3    8*3
hurn                                    28,9    17.4       17.5        -         -       -     194.0   257,8   1.2    3.2
Se"mnires                                4.8   235.9       29,0             -        -        -         269.8   5.0   13.5
S-Toal ASSISTANIE IECUMIDI                 92.8   326.6      46,6         -      26,5   32.3      194.0   718.8   3.5   24.9
b. FRAIS RECtRT
Slairn                                  372   144.5        38.6        -         -   47.6          -   267.9   8.2   22.0
Mhlc.IQEuIbbnt                           8.2       -       11.9        -         -   21,6          -    41.8  10.0    4.2
foncti_onist                             9,6    28,6         -         -         -      -          -    38.2  10.0    3.8
Total FRIS RECRENT                         55.1   173.1       50,5        -         -   69,2          -   37.9   8.6   30.0
TAd lINSNENT COtS                            201.2   734.2     227.3    966.9   1,60497  101.6       194.0 4029.9   60  243.5
Totl UlSIE CMSTS                              201,2   734.2     227.3    966.9   1604.7  101,6        194.0 4,029.9  6t0   243.5
1nidcal C tnlnm s                           15*5    57.1       20.4        -     1481    2.5          -   243.5   0.0    0.0
Prict ContIincius                           13.9    77.1       17.8     74.0     112.5    1.6          -   296.3   6.1   18.1
,T.t F1IECT COSS                              230,6   868.4      265.5  1,040.9   1,865.3  105.7      194.0 4,570.3   5.7  261*7
m             maamaa - ma -    -    a    
TM$                                          3.3    20.2       4.0      21.9      46.8    2.           -    99.1   5.9    5.9
FuwI  Exiwi                                169.5   43B.7      199.9    m,o   1.443.5   60t2        194.0 3,217.8   5.8  167.0
hesie  23 1987 09.52



6Cpostic    of             606
T1b16 3*. OM9h£ A IA   rcan TM   A L aNMiusitM  I L fOKTIW
.taiis Cost table
bautit                                     3. Casts                  TWISt Igtldi  Clastrawii
biAt         mm8 WI"9/9 w69  91/9 92/9 Iota1  bit cat   MN/669/990/9  91/92 92/9  Tota m 63  BP/"09mm9 91/9 929 ltul
1. IuwNB  CO
A. tmmuml
UjlerIurs                                              - 3        -          -N       FM903         -0.on      -              0.6     -  6.9    -    -    -  0.9
Ue. tufAt"-                                                  -               -           -  I0660 2W2.2    -    -    -    -  2.23  36.1    -    -    -    - 36.1
FeAt,. 1bra-                                                                                FI 937,4    7,4    -    -         7.4        9 .4    -    - 
*Mdgje                                                 2                               Flo,9    6.3--#                          .0 67    -       -    --        6.7
tlab-oa    IPNTw                                                                                    21.4  6.2    -    -    - 46.6  42.6  9.32         -    -    52.2
feminide I .dat1.                      No6             -   32   12    -      - 2469560asi           - 14.7 14.7.          -29.5       - 15.9 36.0              3 -1.9
cptau sla4                             FlU             -    3    -    -    -    3 695*W/asi         - 3.7      -    -    -      3.7       4.0    - -    -      4.0
Plmag. t*wators                        "la             -    2    -    -    -    3 1900asia          -  3.7    -    -    -  3.7        -  4.0     -    -    -  4.0
Ado. dip  fd.                          933                   2    -    -    -    2 195W/aia         -   .5    -    -    -  24         -  2.6     -   -          2.6
Etticseit isterm                       no3                   2    -    -    -    29936/asi          -2.5       -    -    - 24         -2.6       -    -    - 2.6 
Wots,asttuat*                          FM3                   2    -    -    -    2 6930/aosi        -  2.5        - -     -  2.5         2.6    -    -    -  2.6
ishtSrtiCll                             t1*            I    I    1    -    -    3 206W/rn   2.622.6.                -    -.6        2.62.6 2.9    -    -6.4
Sbr3sta  6111115 1fOI                                                                                2.6 3.  17.3    -           2.0   2.6 34.5 16.6           - 16.1
C. -.m 
Iatg,"Utien                       2 .ax,2at2-   24   24    -                      46 624Waisi       -  7,4  7.4A             14.9     -  6.0  6.1    -    - 16,
Plasit=igdl    fwtinlO a imm x aa9 mla                      16   16    9    -   45 62460/si         -  5.6  5.6  2.6         14.6     -  6.0  6.1  2.1    - 152
Fend Oa  ,agWaee6                      9333"is                                  -    -    -    ---MO      -    -     -    -194.0 194.0    -    .    -    .94.0
br-Ttal   -                                                                                         194.0 13.0 1-3.0  -2.6    - 22.6 14.0 1-4.0 144.  2.3    -W.2
vtsuftj~~  33 st"Wm x 7 Jo                          ~0.6:-    :06                                          -    .   09               .9
cow 99"M  72 sta"m a 7 Jo                                             .0    -           -     -  1.0  .    1~~~~~~.1    -    1.1
olractuu,adkslas40 Wataallrx 6 J….                           .- .                  .-  3.2    -                           -3.2        -    -  2,9    -      -3.9
briate  V*11  ET 91115631                                                                                  1.0  3.9    -     -4.6        -  1.3  4,6    -      -5.7
1. FSEICUWE3W
fAlvi mUtke 3lairs                    9,1..-,…-9--                                     30.9C   a   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  1.0   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  1.1
Furnitu de abr                                         -           - -        - - …1.3  1.3  1.2  1.3  3.3  6.7   135  1.5  1.6  1.6  1.7  7,9                                                                                        -
Eat,aft iassielua…                                                -           -1.5  1.5  1.5  1.,1 135  7.3   1.6  1.6  1.7  1.7  1.6  6.4                                                                                            0
ctsrtaa,u*i                     2 cwan"   14   Fn-9   16,2 . O: 0.8 0.0  0.39.  0.6  3.9   0.6      0.669  0.9  0.9  4.3                                                                                                             OQ
Etts big*u                            vaour,-M938.3    0.6  0,6  0.6  0.6  0.6  3.2   0.7  6.7  0,7  0,7  0.7  3.5
br-Total FETi4ui                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.4  4.   4.  -4.4  -4.4 2-2.1 -4.9  -4.9  53.0  -5.3  -5.3 T03
F. UIIRUUVM IS                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C,631
Pwgom.ljPlarnFaeatI.                   1    1~~       ~~~~ 1    1  1 5       7   7.4  7.4  7.4  7.   7.  37.2   6.6  9.0  9.4 10.1  16.6 47.6 
F,asldeFuetiAornAsrdobh.w                               I       I    I    I 3                 2   1.9  1.9  3.9  1.9  1.9  9.6   2,2  2.3  2.4  2.5  2.7 12.2
br-total  SI UTIS DU SMU NSII                                                                        9.4  9.4  99.44 M     9.4 4A.6  10.6  11.2 3.  12.5 13.5 60.0
tota  1611130  COST                                                                                   2-46.7 -66.1 -46.0 16.6 -13-.6 395.2 255.  75.2 54.  26.  166424.5
lowa                                                                                                   246.7 66.  46.0 16.6 13.3 M9.2 75.3 75.2 54.5  20.6 10.6 424.5



sfPrnl trm umr URit2
Tdb 261.  WJPA IU 5XtSTM K t BTUEI MRS
btdla tnt TAU
(inD naia)
3.tlo  Lest 7*_
CmAltu                                     ha. test                 Totals Uirdale  LmtxummoLe
dr4t   0616 6919" 901  9t/92 92M9 TOMa  SIAt C.t  MMO M i  90/9  9111 921  Tota  66/6  69190 9019 912 92M9 Tota
A. 15219965.
MP-tou,1,mt ot FeMiblun                 .                     .        M 120,b   43  a.3    -    -    - 2S  70.  72.3    -    -    - 142.0
an6                                     .           .     .-              650.  34.6 34.6    -    -    - 69.3  3s-t 39.1    -    -    - nJ
kivi P96d1                 Vabicl.      -    6    -    -    -    6   Fie 2hS         - t19    -    -    - 15.9        - 17t     -    -    - 1t.9
Eda "  lametwu             Susie        -    -   to    -    -   10   VW 20.0         -    - 21.2    -    - 21.2       -    - 24.1    -    - 24.2
ut    Letf.                0.l2         .        .     .     .     .    - . No 1to   -  U.S    -    -    -  1.5       -  1.7          -     -    -  1.7
rlts    16IDWT                                                                       S97.9 115.3 2.2    -    - 234.4 t04 230.0 24.1    -    - 261.5
tor(                         Ibis       -    -    2   12   12   36        09 20      -    - 14.3 14.3  4.3 42.0       -    - 15.  2    1.4 47.6
rw      *   ms- o- - -ts--s  2S3 ads-                                        23    0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  33   0.7  0.7  0.?  0.7           . .3. 1
tLui.e1   tf1mK60                       I    1    13                          9t9.19.19.             -    - V.2   9.6 9           t.   -    -29.2                                                                                          -
-Toebl  Sm            _E                                                              t9.7  9.7 24.0 14,9 14.9 73   0.3  0 1.4 26.1 16.6 17.2 0.7                                                                                             °
C. 15103
-                                                -     -     - -2                   -    -  . 42.1        -  X.  - 3.      - -1.5  2.3     -  3.
OM                                      -        -     -     -     -     -    0ow    -    -   5.6    .4    - 14.0     -    - 6.19 .3        -  5.4
.-Mla  _W                                                                               -    -  7.0 20.5    - V7.4       -    -  7.6 11.6    - 19.2
I,-tus                                  .         .     .     .     .     .  hS      -  0.9  1.2  0.9    -  3.1       -  1.1  1.5  1.2    -  3.7
s           Es holh.                    -         -     -     -     -     - P-  14.  -  4.S  5.9  4.5    - 14.6        -  5.1  7.2  5.6    - 17.
b. ato in                               .         .     .     .     .     .   9  0.  -  2.2  2.9  2.2    -  7.3        -  2.5  3.5  2.7    -  6.7
bltu     Pi- -                                    -     -     -     -     - fM 0 Ib  - 44.2  -.9 44.2    - 47.3        - SA.6 70.3  S.       - 176-7
l e. diSUM                              -         -     -     -     -     -  n S     - 16.7  -.0  18.7    - 62.5      - 21.5  79.0 23.7    - 75.0
tm   dft ss…0 -                                   -     -     -     -     -   F0 3   -  0.1  0.1  0.1    -  0.3        -  0.  0.2  0.1    -  0.4
Mu u,                                   -                               F…  -    -…- 6- 0.  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.1  0.3   0.2  0.e  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.3
A_    Pad btr-9604                                                                   -    .    .    .  0.4  0e4       -    -    -    -  0.5  0.5
.-Towt   S                                                                            0.1 76t   9 4.2 70.6  0.4 25.9   0.1 60.9 124 09.2  0e6 26L3
E. fvSEEnmT
Vp                                      -         -     -     -     -     -  F1 27    3.5  3.5  3A   3.5  3.5 17.6   4.1  4.2  4.4  4.7  5.021,3 22
NW. W.… -                                         -     -     -     -     -   n 0 0    2.1  7.1  2.)  2.1  2.1 10.5 s .4  2.5  2.6  2.6  3L0  13.3
C-9                                                                                0.20.10.0.100-  -  -  -  -  - fMUOS  .1 0.1 e  e5  ol 0.1 0. #. 0.2 0. 0.6
.-Ttatl PSfNe2I_  T                                                                   5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7 20.6   hS   6.9  7.2  7.6  6.2  36.3 
VP  tiim                    P..a        1    1    I    I    1    5  fV27..  26.299  2.9 26.9 2.9 144.5  33.4 t5.0 36   3.0  41.165.6                                                                                                        0
-tal PVPNlil e0T                                                                    23R  26.9 20.9 2.9 20.9 144.5  33.4 35.0 36.  30.6 41.6 t26
tal 1501112019  2ISTS                                                                  142.3 230.3 tSO   230.7 5M.0 n74.2 1A   26.2 214.0 61.6 47.6 64
12211                      0       --2            - a       0
Ttdal                                                                                   142.3 230.3 200.9 230,7 50.0 734.2 159*213.2 714,0 163.  67.6 50.4
----                         -_-- -  -



tEPUUtic   OF   BURUNDI
-ltS DCI -SECIIt
job 202. tRIRATIO UrU4TME KC L M. DEC.
kt1l.d Cot T*l
(M Nillim)
haits                                   kw costs                Totas lacdla  Ce_wmicis
WAit        O13  899  /"M "M 929 Tot  U1Ct   933M  t/90 "M /"M 92M  Tota  OWN Ot/90   M "M 97/93 TOta
1.~~- n-                                                            -            -  X"0m                  m         -      m    mm         mmm
I. -     elr Welm
A.ENISSUSNTM DES CU
1. Canstnutions                     cl              -    -    8    B    -        F1M 7500      -    -  0.6  0.6    -  .3        -    -  0.7  0.9    -1.5
9dlvi Puiaaou                   vabici4                      - -    4       4 FM 204.    - -.5              -    -  3.5      -  9.6    -    -    -  9.6
sell de 5tia"               3ute itttas iuw       -    -   30               30 FU 25000     -    -  0.B    -    -  0.3       -    -  0.9    -    -  0.9
EOtinubt do RWAibumnt        a-                                   - /st-am  - FIM  1t.9     -    -  2.0    -    -  2.0       -    -  2.2    -    -  2.2
llri#l                          Scimnc-    -…        …-…               -…  FII 65F2.    - 34.5 34.5    -    - 69.1           - 39.0 39.3    -    - 78.3
Dacoqnten                       Sci               -        -     -     -     -    - Fn  23.b4  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0 24.9   5.5  5.6  5.6  5.3  6.0 2L.50
Tol taueumnt                                                                                 5.0 48.0 42.2  5.0  5.0 105.1   5.5 54.1 48.1  5.9  6.0 119.5
3. Ius
Atviea                      2 bumsd* 6 wit                  -                    24 300     -    -  3.2    -    -  3.2       -    -  3.5    -    -  3.5
Euvw                        4 baw ede 6 b7s -          -3-0-    -               -          9 n     t.5    -    -    -    -  9.5  10.1    -    -    -    - 10.1
5th-Total bus                                                                                9.5    -  3.2    -    - 12.7  10.1    -  3.5    -    - 13.6
4. retn                                             -         -     -     -     -     - Fll 24.3   5.1  5.1  5.1  5.1  5.1 25.6   5.6  5.9  6.1  6.5  6.9 31.0
5. Fonctimwment                                      -        -     -     -     -     -  FBU 10.0   2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1 10.6   2.4  2.4  2.4  2.5  2.6 12.3
6. Participatin do Saewemt                           -        -     -     -     -     -  FIMI 21.6   4.5  4.5  4.5  4.5  4.5 22.7   5.3  5.5  5.7  6.1  6.6 2972
t*-Total EUTIE59 1E1S1CE                                                                       26.3 59.8 57.9 17.4 16.7 178.0  28.9 67.9 66.6 21.6 22.0 207.0
B. MilmUE KES 3U_8
1. Epuut                                             -        -     -     -     -     - FO22M   - 12.0 12.0    -    - 23.9      - 13.5 13.6    -    - 27.1
2. Bo                                eis             -        -     -     -     -     -   S37 200   1.0  1.0  2.0  1.0  1.0  4.0   2.0  1.0  1.0  1.1  1.1  5.3
a. St,                                               -    -    -         -     -     -   M 33    0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  3.5   0.9  0.3  0.3  0.9  0.9  4.2
4. Fonctust I                                        .        .     .     .    -  fI 1922   0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  1.3   0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  1.5
S.  ent                                              -        -     -     -     -     - FMU 15,la   3.2  3.2  3.2  3.2  3.2 15.9   3.7  3.3  4.0  4.3  4.6 20.4
li-Total MTIQUE KS LMUES                                                                        5.1  17.0 17.0  5-1  5-1 49-3   5.7 19.4 19.3  6.5  6.9 58.5
0'
TOt IIE3II  e8m                                                                                   31.3 76.3 74.9 22.5 21.8 227.3  34.7 V7.3 36.4 23.1 29.0 265.5                                       o
TOta                                                                                               31.3 76.8 74.9 22.5 21.8 227.3  34.7 87.3 86.4 28.1 29.0 265.5
_Z3* 8        g      gww gg   =M mm  mm mm  mm sins
heasit 23. 197 90944



REPUBLIC          OF    PURtI8    DI
EkCnI  SEEC1R UELWNEIT PROJECT
tabl 301. IU9SRlITAYTlI ET CUITICTOI  P E1D1 PRIII MO S
hetaled Cost Ttble
(nfU lNillion)
ianttv                                                 gm Cosl t                 Totals Jnaed  CA.ttoits
Ulit      L9   3/90e   9em    912   92M3   Total           liIt cost    OM  3/90 901 91M2 92/93 Tota  N3M  9t0 som  91V92 92M  Total
t- INVTM   COMT
A. REIMLITAUTIM                             8     16      16      16        6      62 FIU 5./cantA   23.7 47.5 47.5  47.5  17.8 184.0  24.1  48.7 49.2 50.3 19.5   91.6
8. COIIUCT   IOIEUES
flterim   4 Costottlmn  55 ecols         -      -       -       -        -       -  FM 2.1o/uole  31.2 37.5 34.4 34.4 34.4 171.8  31.7 39.4 35.6 36.4 37.6  179.7
Eeuinumt et Kobiliet     55 Ki"                                          -       -  F6U 15n/ecole  15.9 19.0 17.5 17.5  17.5 67.3  16.2 19.3 13.5  19.0 19.9   93.4                                         1
iain 4 oeuvre  ialism   55 ecoles        -      -       -        -       -       -  FIB 1.Wecole  J9.5 22.2 20.3 70.3 20.3 101.7  19.4 24.2 n3.1  24.4 26.2  117.3
Teasort "imux            55 ocol-s                                       -       -       1O./eole  10.6 12.7 11.6 11.6 11.6 S5.1  10.9 13.4 12.6  13.1  13.3   63.7                                        O
btsllaU  de £hntiet      55  aoles       -      -       -        -       -       -  FWI 0t.ajt1.e  ?.1  2.5  2.3  2.3  2.3 11.6   2.2  2.7  2.5  2.6  2.3   12.7
Pa,tci,ation Cones          12           -      -       -        -       -       -                   9.4  It.3 10.3 10.3 10.3 51.7   9.9 12.5 12.0 12.8 13.9   61.1
9S-Total CiJtlilONS NOIVES                                                                             877 105.2 76.4 96.4 96.4 492.2  904 111.0 104.3 1094 114.1  529.0
C. SERMCE 3O3 CDUT UAC
PM. Adunistrttit                     89145  9.444  1MM5   15#0M3  164000  59261                 0   9.6  8.9 12.2 15.9 16.9 62.6   9.6  3.t 12.2 15.9 16.9   62.6
Assistae tcitmitw                        2      2       2        2       2      10      $90 000/an  23.2 73.2 23.2 23?2 73.2 116.2  23.8 24.2 24.7 25.4 26.6  124.6
Pt. Entitti/Ateliers                 7.540  7992   8.472   89890   9.519  42.503       FIG 6t,Sfan   8.0  3.4  8.9  9.5  10.1 44.9   8.2  e    9.7  10.7  11.9   49.4
ouisnt                                   -      -       -        -       -       -      FlU 4,tWam   4.9  4 9  4.9  4.9  4.9 24.3   5.0  5.1  5.3  5.5  5.8   26.6
FRris d Fotm        t                           -       -        -       -       -    M  10Wa   10.6 10.6 10.6 10.6 10.6 5.3  10.9 11.2 11.4 11.9 12.5   57.
Su-Totl SERVICE KS CONSTIUCTIONS                                                                       55.2 56.0 59.8 64U1 65.6 300.8  56.5 58.3 63.3 69.4 73.7  321.2
Total I9TINW  COSTS                                                                                      166.6 208.7 203.8 209.0 17S8 966.9 170.3 213.0 216.7 278.1 207.3 19040.9
333=3 3nt VX=        3     3=              W3=  mm3  NM= 
Total                                                                                                     16.6 208.7 203.8 M.0 179.8 96.9 170.9 218.0 216.7 28.1 207.3 1,040.9
9vcee 23a. 1997 09144
0.



REPUBLIC   oF   BURUNDI
EUTIb  SECTOR IUELIOPHET PROJECT
Tabil 302. RECONE15i1 En COWST3 II  BES ECQLES SECUMA       S
btailcd Cost Table
(FEl 3iiizonl
uatitY                                                   ui costs                    Totals lIcludiw  Can4t tptits
Uni            09/90    90/91    91/92   n/93    ToUtl   Eit Cost  8849 Pt" 99m  9192 92m  TOI    uss 69/                   91 9m/92 s92n9  Total
1. IffESTET COSTS
A. RECOMVERSIONS
1.  s KE                                 -       -        -        -        -        -    FBU 9S6   20.4 20.4  20.4  20.4  20.4  101.6  22.9 23.3 23.7 24.4  25.5  119.e
2. LICEE                                 -        -       -        -        -        -    FEU 70b   14.8  14.0  J4.8  14.01   74-1  16.7  16.9  17-2  17.-  I8.    87-2
3. LCE!  _                               -        -       -        -        -        -   FMU 1s    31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7 3t.7   1.7   3.7  36.3 3U9  38.1  39.7  1W6.8
4. LVCEE hrA                             -        -       -        -        -        -    FU 49    0.4  10.4  10.4  10.4 10.4   5t.9  11.7 11.9  M21  12.4  13.0   61.0
s. LYME MMIR                             -        -       -        -        -        -      B 30S    6.3  6.3   6.3  6.3  6.3   31.3   7.0  7.2  7,3  7.S  7.6   36-9
6. EFI  lA                               -       -        -        -        -        -    FlU 57*  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0   59.9  13.5  13.7  13.?  14.4  M5O   70.5
7. EFIMM                                 -        -       -F  5                                      11.5  11.5  11.  11.5  11.5   57.3  12.9  13.1  13.3  13.7  14.4   67.4 
S. EFI MnY4                              -        -       -        -        -        -    Fi  60   12.8  12.0  12.0  1?.8  12.0   63.0  14.4  1.6  14.9  15.3  16.0   75.1
9. LNCEE RM                             -        -       -        -        -        -    FIU 6    13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2   658   14.8  15.1  15.3  15.0  16.5   77.4                                               0
10. LYCE! NAtM M                                 -        -        -        -        -    FIU 39l    8.2  8.2  8.2  8.2  8.2   40.0   9.2  9.3  9.5  9.8  10.2   40.1
9*-Total RECINS3US                                                                                     141.1 141 141.1 141.1 141.1  705.6  18.7 161.4 164.2 169.2 176.7  030.2
8. NdilUAS am.                              -       -        -        -        -        -         ION  10,6  13.3  7.7    -    -   26.5   1t.3  U4.3  2.9    -    -    28.4
C. e5s
Pevsomul Awn                        MM694    4532   124       1oP182   lo7      41,619  FU 61n6.  14.5  15.3  13.1  10.8  11.4   65.1  I.5  15.3  13.1  10.8  13.4   65.1
ssistae teftique                         3       3        4        4        4       18 *S0 00/an  34.9  34.9  46.5  46.5 46.5  209.1  39.2  39.9 54.2  56.0 5e.5  247.8
EuiMmnt- -                                                 -       -        -        -  FlU 92.2   97.7       -    -    -    -   97.7  109.1        -    -    -    -    09-1
Pesmul EntnUti,/PiWab               9S554   10127   119366   12.034         -   4308t            0  10.1  10.7  32.0  12.7    -   45.5  10.1  10.7  12.0  12.7    -    45.5
Fonctimnnt                               -        -       -        -        -        - FPU 100.40   21.2 21.2  21?2  21.2  21.2  106.0  24.0  24.6  25.3  26.3 27.7  127.9
Sub-Total SCS                                                                                          176.3  82.1  92.0 91.1  79 1  523.4  106.9 90.6 t04.6 105.7  7.6  595.4
C. co
Conttuctin                               -        1        1     0.5       0.5       3      Pat Co      -116.4 11L.4  58.2  56.2  349.2       - 133. 1 4  6.0  72.9  411.3
Su*-Totl CO                                                                                                -116.4 116.4  50.2 58.2  349.2        -133.1 135.4  69.8  72.9  411.3                                         >   >
Total INJESTNENT COSTS                                                                                    330.1 352.9 3s3.0 290.4 278.4 1604.7  366.9 399.4 407.1 3.4.7 347.1 13865.3
sans a.      _ ss na   e =c sn a      sa   ao se   a _           a   aa_
Total                                                                                                      330.1 352.9 353.0 290.4 278.4 1,604.7 366.9 399.4 407.1 344.7 347.1 1,865.3
Os"as as:  s:=== urrn r=s 55155  =ce_s  St  tans  _55           ts sea cc=                                        0
bcmo  23, 1987 09144



tEPUBLIC   Of  RURUNtI
EWTII PIN iEtllll tllRIEC
TMb#  . mm ES MTe  lnf on)
tW.sL.d Cet Tsbl*
(FlU l£lli.
Auita                                             Omg Cu                   Tods 1Imd     ?.Ai_EWa
bit        Sip 690 0 4/9   91/nM92 01            Tota   thit Cost 33O6 80/90 90M9  91/9 92    TOWa  OM16 69/9 90/9  91/9 92M Tota
WE 
5.l.1d..                        3,012  SO494  90I  95         10,227  4431         FMe  8.4  3.9  9.5  1t.0 10.7 4.4   6.4  6.9  9.10.0 o10   47.4
fw ebt   idau               .       -      -       -      -        -       - Rll4    4.3  4.3  4.3  4-3  4.3 21.6   4. 4.9  5.0  5.1  5.3 3.1                                                                   o
Maudt                                          I  1                I       5         1   1.3  1.3  1.3  13  1.36.5   1*4  1.4  1.4  1.4   15 7.1
Studis                              -      -       -      -        -       -    2*O001  64.5  6.5  4.5  6.5    - 25.9   4.5  6.5  6.5  46.           - 2.9
me  me  --  m              m    m-  m    P     -  -      ----- m mm
T"t          6F                                                                                 20.5 21.0 21.6 22.1 14. 101.6  21.1  21.7 22.3 23.0 17.5 105.7
DKi.ebnt 23,w 0944
tetd 1M511Et alS5                          20*  21*022+6  a+t 1*4 Nt    22.122*t  2*3 20  It  lOQ 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _     _    _     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
tet                                        2t.5 21*0 2-6 22*1 t6-4 t1.6  t.t  t.t X*  23.0 tX s t0-
____________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 111 -
ANNEX 3.11
UM&M OP  11U1m8T "  UUWD
1. gwo"    cuo %"cat                          It            an.  .m a   cW.m   m  uua                ucustte ss.m.e  04           T  di             nlwa     nt  i
_OO of Puosiin   itool ~d.l1ao Iat,StaoI~ dee                     de    itliao dou                  *  t_" ^  to a                    t laeaaa
PoeCoatat   Tldtia  tIla               Vat, at  Telj                 hatxtli Pea        total *' mtlo    dotgmao«t Pel_t tad atmf aolakittom
Pemosoll)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~saemo
_ _                                         K t4CU s
af                                                                                                                      TO Std       - |  I  sgt. Va ug. i  it    tatat 1    U et  . To ate. 05 ttttelt t    d p.aat. DP
dolat  IaatlotOtaastadoIa                                                                                         0       tad  Sll  tlLa  1.O $*Is/aotautt   a
:; adoatalto                                                                                Pltaifiettla *dort  *'U os  at e    I d Id at a P6 t.
e t     _aUt totl
I   ttlgt  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~f*l*f To                                          . 10A pgStwf or to *rpe  rheol
TO ONSIOt 4-Pi ., ft PCMT pIt  bVA Mt
fly   to to  t tf*tl@|t  t 1¢s Prbsm  .
Palatiuol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ aorseatnta                                                              ntlrpriraot.            w
atflee,atmat do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ts..re o .fomm
ties dte -omi                                            a*firaitOfw/oe   I
*abeo.~~~0I                            ttr 5  t                                   -toa 1da0,1.on tt Latht/tdat. ta  p~tata 1t
epPia  fat     tdtaly1altCntloeov
ftnaa nc_o  dt aaa  at  p
t U*tOvtate ~~~~~~~~~~~~~tv                                                              . te n~~~~~~~~oltta ¢¢.e  dd ptattva t I eattedotft.
d22Kdt* f_ *                             I       i"            2    t                                                    TO$&m* Oue "Sarzlts amd Odtel           of
,h. tWdtataoaot Iten tlt8qB  It
l d11cttf4td 4 r gfe".
ToP I  PatP    t  t  ca tertsdti   dat. totvem of
tt OAatty do Iddccatton/a.port
*I'Pnctttle oee d 
<itJFttogPb      tit  eolSoo1                                       a.4                                                                     daaatto   fIoolro  e
ftM t                       *             tI      J  t.S       Dot.               2                                      to ato    gt, oftt    t  -  TOinlat t.edi at  plah t*ntcQ   at
.tO6Vt*tM& 0,46agoigl"so no,  t_t troote     lao/tdtltat. 4ater et
bitat/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ult   u  ie     "ses.gttd
Its"  Mt treottet                                                                                                                    d
!--a~tq o                                 I      Rare            *               e          son" Ut11a"tif   *it        to ttro Iee l qctvtoa d  td a   teU b
ltfll)  tenlEoztensn ip ctt*ts tetm an I
Idnesum~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~un sea                                                                        t*
3~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O tttt_tt _floatetlaa
d600tttt  t
detqtm  tte                              It        t. 4        Ppt.90           3Y          Ccha de at& tt tt     d      TO  .o tat,I t tad eprwa tOhoor trdanti  at
Paot    dg U  pritlya to atpty   teat  lOttPnatt  se
*in t doe    a f  oo litto oftuz et eJ
; teF   _                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PMeSon*t *
m tinetat atl
t totLc tooletq
e.- 
amr   tgg   tt_t/             V$CO dt Leqth ofe2ho   rlept                                                                ct46Deta    dtUottaDetlt oTfitalo Istoala tlatoto to Vrjt.t oo et
adetet de tJt             L                     kw t       proept              tO                c"toe"  Ie scutud doh    p nst.
"tft  -1 to "tt 0h* dstf) at to atoupCt  aa, lo  nOorv    lotW  z town
- ?dotellao tt 2otn It   d ptq dt   lodeetact I* trct   p"
l     etta                                                                               Soottm d pto]" ,   t   t Is Itatma sure tD  tt la  tiftltnto
4e PreJ"                  L             I                                      tX                mnlessZ a. pnO>t
to -       o       d _     Prect ncf am Pettiatl acesetaa
tootU blsticto foited to the prtoject cl.CttOtue  pfwm/tp4Vt 
Aceftt                                                                                          Ot rt l         t atlltd en POpt t "Its de pteJr  de
cotb                     * ad L         I                                      tO               constructions do pt.opt.
*,ofOititatla.              ft            I      Ott. 82       tapt.O C30eo                 Cltw do Caootreeleos - tontbl* tot the *abta taacht "  Pets of tat
dw e    -   ttc"l                                                                                  cstohtftc   ttlC )        comtnqCtad                     dnelt(Ongnch .p act
ceSitsel                 4vt t                     g             3       Jea. aN      on. 90           ICA                                    archItat cr s   pftcsr      ft **nttlation
. vrm,,,,m~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - _tPOIblt for ptecvrww                                                                            sf S.4
spdhittNl                                                                                                           ptopt         aat  I cont a at           de4
an *Oat*                                I       in. se       on. *(            le att                                            *t h  *ttlw  dd   ettat.
Frewtoe"  - tpbt          tottt  O   tdote o  wttoct  o  tX
- camsftret                                                                                            co ta otlen prar tr *pcb -ptteturea oafcootd  by th a
goated_l                                                         at et/c                                         at o0* a1aat la b oejat"tet M COjot, at
T  ^ bt"o as tot                                Itaxth of pteJ cQt                                 otItthe d4t0a to ctt1*  lojti " bpadt*ct.roo a    etm Ii,t    W  
erttterds,ta t   de petet  't -Pept.



- 112 -
ANNEX 3.12
no11= to rn asUnf pa=/a  De OVL"wm Dun SWR  wn
&    InT of O ss sAd LoW    l TatotftAsUd Es 1 totosttlo  a 2 lsgaoat  t tLtaiq
C_noosot/              Arab of o£tAlSjs"   Abcoad (A) er o                                      t        _al£tcflttso/                          dotsmped  saOtsOt  _  twt  wslsstbtIttS
Co0t_asot#             E    toot otl/                                          Sotd 006)    lo                     Qs5£Itt a£ £                 15w d5ft4 SOse   fu ttats. foostt
stoer,(A) or   (ooth)          th/I)
Odoclos             - geooolst/Coptotr                                         2      16   Oct. 07   Se.  It  CGrO*4sod to teooo/                   Ortoctoe   of IdtU atioD 1£n   g/_atlets
tl nalmt-t *r4        {        t ts (M)1                                                                        Dtp36.a  *n kconont                tdttstt@o sod *0pstot*£   o fdstcIO
_a__t__t__            I-f Otst"                                                                                                                     tltSoctas sspstgs/Itpslstso, edtdstratluo
Ad0,01sttdlon        Itoot test                                                                                                                    *t5095t,15t10  At apcft. r  t9t1 *4     ttftas*s t 4S
dt 1l.tfttttoo                                                                                                                                      £'Ettoo.
- Uurois  Otloonreers/                             S   *         S      t  85   300*" SI   5h   t; ftlOo d£91055/              OlD ntertOf     ot hosestlos PlasoIsg
rl DttU nun  DtplW *' n d1ta ttop   nt tttteo@ a,           I't-t  ,,tt att   .
ldocatio dssteos wo   plame  pesaa              t
J    .dslopp  su is                      doeig  iocafe
--o  1     _  eam   e Drttes UtieeO.
qo.llfSd 5#fOndOy nnc~hfn/
. US  ZtO  PI on-l                     £           2                   Oct. Al  Joe* *0 k otontotn stofntist
ItD(f ooctUsT
WorfmttrI.oD                         A                  I £          OCt. U8  fob. *t    (opssId fo,.9t*t ptrat t,,/          O/S5IAlsts a *d tO tt et tdutlos
ltattcton de ltofottiqw            ststlsttca/Aoulpe t t emot 4          o
kono#out* dI £ddectloot              A           8      I                 H. Oct. 89  l.A. 59    S10nv gdocottop dsp.. to    ottiphrsltsto  of nIr s"  1r/,ps,atttol  do Pi ?t
PnUt 4       Totft IoW/DtplCo  d                                 di_sosot    Es Mr.
L-sl Trd Sn g/                                  one   P.s abut                            8t041l"  Uo ItOW.
omtutis Loesl.
tosp  tcvo/losawtoors                b           e      50   £0    Oct. SY  Jo.- 9£    Io         tot /oIn       pt   t rett ,s  lt£tMI st  cttosflt/ tos  ttsttcs   d  ,tol
ptoail  sttttqlsa t t  t tto l*c tn.
> d ttetdOtnotn      ~             Octf           ots
41C.0 Lc                                         6     So   too 100  ert. $1  Jlun *I   F'soar  ethwl ool _ntec/             pt_fttv tecet*/tit e   tto/W
Ntht  !A   llths
Ir.ewot et          - tostos4oo* o,SaIalts                 A           S      *     £8    Ott. t8   Joos 91   58 .clm stSpdclttss do    an ' tsdsttlet et tlb edoeatto  refooJtittsafttn
OpEet£11st.to du loattoo                                                                  at                4tdo  dtt.t* des 1  Meto.
rf~~~Cf"Ip ~ofs
tEFIRMeo 4*            ttts/4X*e
te   grotgaes                        A           6      6     36    Oct. 8t  Joos 91   Itst epst.lietlspdciloteto  4t   din - Ctotlcol. ptnpsttst   the goets *M
Yi-OM                                                                                                                                       to-5*4o£t     * tothAs   t iotattcs eAn
hJus __     -       -ptont of Pnntsng                                                                                                              ProgEtmn puila ditm  at csol4r0 es  ntrts.
upil/0oulp' de
I' I.Pripe                           A _                £      9    Oct. go   J"n0 AS   01? *pgo£Ot*t/514't5t*t*ts 4    Upf - Ib44sm_  at  pfStti sM  01oslthtog
ttp                                ot£,tttos ;ntloo oondes *'£q   o  et do to
f tTlntlating s *Pocioeld                                                                                                    P* ct*tst. d oed sts.
t?YPQ8aph* sootlf                    A           I      £      2    Octt    h. S    Fob, A9   It "POCtstist/IpCtUltstO do la  0r - UStbohs                       den */tt ts er  t1t
_ st.  trip*/                                                                              7 vcoldsls..
toyasi 4d     .                      A           2      £      2    Ott. 66   St. SO    are tomsenoicsoad  4d   s I.t.        tlP - ltlotie*,A pD baO  o r l sat'tte/kst'tjt
dtqgsestoo at dr p"lt1at4 s.
Local  olmle                                      Ik4t ttE    I   TSotl
lovmints  Issol                                   (J-) 005   (sOs)
- Taacl.srsflostttotso.s  I.        Ss      300    78.0   Lath, of tha Proj.  to-sorotta parsounelI                seck to fosso  ft$4.$  stIloss  so ds OSqot.
- ?oadstsssilttsctooto         w       I         9)      300    40   (0.0L SS SO  tsooos)  O modtt         o  d     tol        Upgrading of qwatifititonIl&at $ tca41'     4s
* tsPactots/trapatsoa                 I.        s0       so    £0            - pao                                             81£sts   ifstsals
- tl tots t/lttVIIII                        20      225     36
Ietot   80.  TOtal
Iosotof       - tr14ARo of os"Orday                                             Rs
I n-°tt ot         *e tohst or"tst£o  4a
Itofosotos_n do lcodat               A         *        6      36   Oct. 0   lJDt J." SO   alS spadltslpdfla£          .      tlUII    - losrc   cood ry ttath.  tosltdd   tod
4fltsfood                                                                                                                                    rootsdsolom deeatpbo/arutlea depsgsm
tLctal traidt/                                  AtWd    S. lo     otd alc     d wpi  t pt*(ntle et  ftotet.
'Ibcod88.988!         ?oowtntoo Lx 1.                               lioo n)  llA;, (ocofs)
- $O.dory taechers/
ptotefsoors a. 4  ootc.               L          IS    t6b0    68    Lgth, of the poj.   - to-sotto.  t ol/                    .I  to tornr beef i  .stlt4o/   ms,  ltois otc500
borl do 9toj    rst  rsonm  so to-t. dnsptoti           Otitois of qotcat(sotosootna do
qsotfttcsttoaspsoatosls
"1.It   go.  Tatol
(Ocnt1) (iso)
ltolsct       ~stody trips (sIsIto to                AI           £      3            ot. 86   Zoos 90    VI? #oroo-Ws  (soaposeprov          PR -  PSrad1og Of  MmoagMt osehtillttsst
Adstosttstm/A   thot projo-to sod/o  800k                                                                  atmoososldo Sflg (cdedrs)                hsdltootstoo dos qoslfticstloo  son  tiontdse
Adsiolttation do     U'lltosoas  d'Atodap.                                                                                                               got
Pm                   stotilla A4 'st to  pri.st
- - so oA E. . to Saqs
5.041*14.



- 113 -
ANNEX 3.13
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE/TABLEAU DE DECAISSEMENT
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE
DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION                       PROFILE IN PERCENT
Fiscal Year    Disbursement Accumulated  Undisbursed   Percent   All Sectors   Education
Quarter                                                Disbursed    Burundi       Burundi
Annie Budghtaire Dgcaissement DWcaissement  Solde non  Pourcentage
Trimestre                    Accumules    D4cai8ss    D6caiss9
US$     DTS  US$      DTS  US$    DTS
1989     1       0.9      0.7   0.9    0.7  30.6   22.3       3
2       0.7     0.4   1.6    1.1  29.9   21.9        5            0             6
3       0.6     0.5   2.2    1.6  29.3   21.4       7
4       1.0     0.7   3.2    2.3  28.3   20.7    10               4            14
1990     1        1.3     1.2   4.5    3.5  27.0   19.5    15
2       3.4     2.3   7.9    5.8  23.6   17.2    25              12            32
3       1.6     1.1   9.5    6.9  22.0   16.1    30
4       1.5      1.2  11.0    8.1  20.5   14.9    35             22            46
1991     1        1.6     1.1  12.6    9.2  18.9   13.8    40
2       3.2     2.3  15.8    11.5 15.7   11.5    50              33            60
3       1.5     1.2  17.3    12.7 14.2   10.3    55
4       1.6      1.1  18.9    13.8 12.6    9.2    60             45            73
1992     1        1.6     1.2  20.5    15.0 11.0    8.0    65
2       1.6      1.1  22.1    16.1  9.4    6.9    70             57            90
3       1.5      1.2  23.6    17.3  7.9    5.7    75
4       1.6      1.1  25.2    18.4  6.3    4.6    80             69            92
1993     1       1.6      1.2  26.8    19.6  4.7    3.4    85
2       1.2     0.9  28.0    20.5  3.5    2.5    &9              80            94
3       1.0     0.7  29.0    21.2  2.5    1.8    92
4       0.6     0.4  29.6    21.6  1.9    1.4    94              89            97
1994     1       0.6      0.5  30.2    22.1  1.3    0.9    96              95          100
2       0.4     0.2  30.6    22.3  0.9    0.7    97
3       0.6     0.5  31.2    22.8  0.3    0.2    99             100
4       0.3     0.2  31.5    23.0    0        0   100
Estimated date of effectiveness July 1, 1988/Date pr6vue d'entr6e en vigueur ler juillet 1988.
Closing Date December 31, 1993/Date de Cl8ture 31 d6cembre 1993.



- 114 -
ANNEX 3.14
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
DOCUMENTS DISPONIBLES DANS LES ARCHIVES DU PROJET
Ref. No.                   Documents                                File No.
1          "Etude Sectorielle sUr l'Education et la Formation"
Ministere de l"Education avec la cooperation du
PNUD, de l'UNESCO et du BIT. Decembre 1985.
2          "Country Economic Memorandum" The World Bank
(Report No. 6754-BU). April 27, 1987.
3          "Etude sur le cou't, le financement et
l'organisation de l'enseignement superieur au
Burundi". Jean-Bernard Rosera. Janvier 1987.
4          "Reflexions relatives aux EFI, aux CRPD et a
la formation des enseignants de ces
-tablissements". Gouvernement du Burundi.
Mars 1987.
5           "Mise en place de la formation D6 dans les
EFI. Experimentation-Validation". Rapport
Final UNESCO-BER. Aout 1985.
6          'Reflexion sur le systeme educatif burundais
en matiere d'education de base". Ministere de
l'Education Nationale. Janvier 1986.
Documents de travail/Working papers
7          "Appui a la Planification et a l'Administration
de l'Education". MEN. Avril 1987.
8          "Amelioration qualitative de l'enseignement
primaire". MEN. Avril 1987.
9          "Amelioration qualitative de l'enseignement
secondaire". MEN. Avril 1987.
10          "Amelioration quantitative de l'enseignement
primaire". MEN. Avril 1987.



- 115 -
11          "Rehabilitation des etudes secondaires".  MEN.
Avril 1987.
12          "Bureau des projets educations".  MEN.  Avril 1987.
13          "ProJet d'organisation d'un enseignement par
correspondance". MEN. Mars 1987.
14          "Education en matiere de demographie-Education
sexuelle et familiale". MEN. Avril 1987.
15          "Sante Scolaire: Activites d'Enfant a Enfant.
Evaluation des inteiventions possibles.
BERIUNICEF. Paulette A. Chaponniere. Avril 1987.
16          "Programmes - de stages de 1988 a 1989
- de publication par la Region
des Productions Pedagogiques"
MEN. Juin 1987.
17          "Statistiques scolaires" 1981/82, 1982/83,
1983/84, 1984/85, 1985/86. MEN.



MAP SECTION



|A e    j A F R ICA N REPUBLIC  >                                           SUDAN    OTT  OPIA
(                                                                                     BURUND ~t  Z   I   */UGANDA  E  NBURUND
GAS ONL9J    ZD A I: A                     jA                           EDUCATIC4N SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
, )   J,   >BURUNDI                          N
ANGOLJtAI1-                                                                          rR 
'A                     r           4   NGOSAMBIQ!                 A a I                                                    /A  2                            2
L UKAVU  2 )
'.4~~~~~d
\   \    (~              \                         FVf                                                  > .oE
\EproX  (   *\  R    YN                  ;-.                /           r>-+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T k
A-
/                    EXISTING INFR,,STRUCTURE:
-- PAVED
-EARTH/GRAVEL
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
-.  INTERNATIOAL BOUNDARIES
PROVINCIAL BOIUNDIARIES
AVE                                                                                   4 bY PORT
T. RIB-                                N~~~~~~~*    EW LO-  SECONDARY SCHOOLS (31
A  CONwVEsoN OF tOWER SECONDARy SCHiOOLS (1o)
URAN PRIMARY SCHOOLS (6I
0   IC      20 30       A
tIOBETERS                                                               r
29-(;\                                / 2-301                    30      /3
07ZSR /030 |                                                                                               -    h S'ITN   NRSRCU
$i    !>_5Mabondo   9                 EAaTH/GRAVEL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



