Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16095
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOEI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1881-BU)
November 1, 1996
Country Department for Burundi
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Monetary unit = Burundi franc (FBU)
(Average FBU/US$1)
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
140   159   171   181   208   243   253   276   285 *
* As of January 31, 1996
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ACADEMIC YEAR OF BORROWER
September - June
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEET        Technical Education Office (Bureau d 'Etudes de 1'Enseignement
Technique)
BEPES       Secondary Education Office (Bureau d'Etudes Pedagogiques de
l'Enseignement Secondaire)
BER         Rural Primary Education Office (Bureau de I 'Enseignement Rural)
BPE         Education Projects Office (Bureau des Projets d'Education)
CCAP        Coordinating Comnmittee for Education Activities (Comite de
Coordination des Aciivites Pedagogiques)
CRPD        Regional Center for Pedagogy and Documentation (Centre Regional de
PMdagogie et de Documtentation)
DCS         School Construction Department (Departement des Constructions
Scolaires)
DPE         Education Planning Department (Direction de la Planification de
I 'Education)
EFI         Primary Teacher Training College (Ecole de Fonnation des Instituteurs)
MEBAA       Ministry of Basic Education and Adult Literacy
MEN         Ministry of Education
MESSRS      Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and Scientific Research
PEP         Public expenditure program
PIP          Public investment program
RPP         Textbook Production Office (Regie des Productions Pedagogiques)
UNDP        UJnited Nations Development Program
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1881-BU)
CONTENTS
PREFACE .......................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................                                                                           iii
1. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....................................................l1
A. BACKGROUND ..................................................... .1
B. DEFINITION AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ......................................................4
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ......................................................4
D. FACTORS HAVING A MAJOR IMPACT ON THE PROJECT .....................................................                                              12
E.  SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS ..................................................... 1 3
F. BANK PERFORMANCE .....................................................14.............                                                         . 14
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER .....................................................                                                               15
H. EVALUATION OF RESULTS .....................................................                                                                     16
I.  FUTURE OPERATION .....................................................                                                                         16
J.  MAIN LESSONS .....................................................                                                                             17
2. STATISTICAL DATA .....................................................                                                                         19
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...................................................... 9
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .....................................................                                                          21
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .....................................................                                                                   22
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE, ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............................................. 22
TABLE 5: MONITORING INDICATORS ..................................................... 23
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR FUTURE OPERATION .....................................................                                                27
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .....................................................                                                    28
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .....................................................                                                                      29
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .....................................................                                                                  30
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND ADVANTAGES .....................................................                                                       30
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..................................................... 31
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL DIRECTIVES .......... 34
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES; STAFF INPUTS (STAFF WEEKS) .....................................................                                        34
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .....................................................                                                          35
3. ANNEXES
B. BORROWERS PROJECT EVALUATUIN .....................................................                                                             36
MAP IBRD 28085
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1881-BU)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report for the Education Sector
Development Project in Burundi, for which Credit 1881-BU in the amount of US$31.5
million was approved on February 23, 1988. The Credit became effective on July 20,
1988.
2.    The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995, after the initial closing date of June
30, 1994, was extended twice. The last Credit disbursement was made on May 29, 1996
and the undisbursed balanced (US$0.6 million 1, i.e. 1.9% of the Credit) was canceled on
June 19, 1996. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) participated in Project financing with US$0.6 million
and US$1.0 million, respectively.
3.    This report was prepared by Mr. Magaye Gaye, consultant, with input from Mr.
Pamphile Kantabaze, Operations Officer (AF3BU). It was reviewed by Mr. Daniel Viens,
Task Manager (AFTH2) and commented on by Messrs. David Berk, Acting Chief AFTH2
and Nils Tcheyan, Country Director for Burundi. Its preparation began with the last Bank
supervision mission, which visited Burundi February 1-15, 1995. Another mission visiting
March 18-29, 1996, collected data and gathered information for this report. The report is
based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, the report on the Review of Public Expenditure of June 28, 1994, the Bank's
report on the Assistance Strategy to Burundi of May 2, 1995, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and other project documents. The Borrower prepared its own
project evaluation, which was received by the Bank on May 29, 1996 (Annex B).
I  An undisbursed balance of SDR 398,860 was canceled and the Credit was closed on June 19, 1996.






REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1881-BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Macroeconomic Situation
1.    Burundi is one of the world's poorest countries, with a per capita income of
US$150 in 1994. Its population of some 5.8 million, increasing at 3% per year, lives on
only 27,834 km2. Density per km2 is 208 inhabitants, 10 times the average for sub-
Saharan Africa. Agriculture provides nearly 50% of the gross domestic product, 90% of
jobs and more than 80% of export receipts. The secondary sector accounted for only 16%
of gross capital investments in the last 15 years, primarily for small farms and transport.
The public sector is the dominant force in manufacturing, energy, infrastructure, finance
and other activities of the modem sector, providing more than 50% ofjobs in the formal
sector (40,000 employees). Some 80% of investments are financed using external
resources.
Role of the Bank in the Education Sector
2.    Bank operations in the education sector in Burundi began with the First Education
Project (Cr. 679-BU signed on April 29, 1977 and closed on March 31, 1983), which
provided assistance for quantitative and qualitative improvement in primary education
through the construction of primary schools, teacher training for practical subjects,
preparation of new curricula and the production of teaching aids. The Second Education
Project (Cr. 976-BU signed on April 23, 1980 and closed on June 30, 1985) assisted the
Government in expanding and improving its technical education program, essentially to
train skilled workers and technicians in construction, commerce, public works, mechanics,
drafting, typing and bookkeeping. The Third Education Project (Cr. 1358-BU) signed on
June 9, 1983 and closed on March 31, 1988) provided assistance for expanding and
improving formal primary and non-formal education and training in rural areas, expanding
lower secondary education, improving primary teacher training and strengthening of the
Rural Primary Education Office (BER), which is responsible for curriculum development
and the production of teaching aids for primary education.
3.    The First, Second and Third Education Projects were completed on schedule and
are considered successful. The innovative aspect of the Fourth Education Project was its
assistance to the Government for the adoption and implementation of sectoral policies



iv                             ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
aimed at reducing education costs at all levels and a reallocation of the education budget
to favor the primary level.
Project Objectives
4.    The objectives of the project were to (a) implement cost containment measures
and facilitate adjustment in the education sector; (b) strengthen the planning, budgeting
and cost-control capacity of the Ministry of Education; (c) improve the quality and
efficiency of primary and general secondary education; and (d) improve rural access to
education.
5.    Project components were as follows:
(a)   Education costs: a sector adjustment program of 29 significant policy
measures to reduce unit costs and a reallocation of the education budget
towards primary education; and (ii) assistance to MEN to cover the costs
resulting from the temporary increase in the scholarship budget for the
1987/88 academic year;
(b)   Strengthening of MEN capacity: (i) strengthening of the Education
Planning Department (DPE), in order to enable it to implement and
monitor the Program, prepare sectoral adjustment plans and formulate
cost-effectiveness measures, including the public expenditure programs
(PEPs) and public investment programs (PIPs) and related studies on
education; and (ii) strengthening and coordination of school administration
and planning;
(c)   Improvement in the quality and efficiency of education: (i) strengthening
of the role of inspectors, teacher trainers and school directors to help them
provide pedagogic and administrative support to the teachers; (ii) training
of primary and secondary teachers; (iii) improvement in the teaching of
science and technology in secondary schools through the provision of
adequate facilities and materials; (iv) strengthening of the Regie des
Productions Pedagogiques (RPP), including the provision of materials and
equipment; and (v) award of scholarships for training abroad for specialists
in primary and secondary education; and
(d)   Access to education: (I) strengthening of MEN's capacity to build,
rehabilitate and maintain schools through the reorganization of the BPE;
(ii) construction of 55 primary schools and rehabilitation of 55 existing
schools with furnishings and equipment; (iii) construction of three lower
secondary schools and rehabilitation of 10 existing secondary schools; and
(iv) formulation and monitoring of a school maintenance program.



Evaluation Summary                                                     v
Achievement of Objectives
6.    The physical objectives were met substantially, or even surpassed. Sector policies,
public sector management and private sector development objectives were met partially.
The project had a negligible impact on financial objectives, institutional objectives and
poverty reduction. During the period from 1987-1993, which preceded the events of
October 1993 (assassination of the first elected president), access to basic education
improved, as shown by the increase in primary enrollment albeit at a slower pace than
anticipated. The project financed human resource development activities by training
teachers, school directors and school inspectors. The component involving the
construction and rehabilitation of primary and secondary schools was carried out as
planned, occasionally exceeding projections. In summary, the assessment of the outcome
is generally satisfactory.
7.    During the October 1993 events, equipment, furniture and the buildings of some
primary and secondary schools were damaged, making repairs necessary. The cost of
repairing and re-equipping the schools ($790,000), which had not been anticipated in the
Credit, was financed by savings generated by the project. When the 1993/94 academic
year began, more than 25% of primary and secondary students failed to return to school
and the primary enrollment rate fell from 68% in 1992/93 to about 50% in 1994/95. An
estimated 25% of primary teachers and 42% of secondary teachers have not returned to
their jobs since early 1994.
Sustainability and Future Operations
8.    After a period of sluggishness between July 1988 and July 1990, the DPE resumed
its activities between August 1990 and June 1994. However, since then it has almost
totally collapsed and preparation of PEPs, statistical yearbooks, and the project
performance indicator table is two years behind, owing to the lack of human and financial
resources. As a result, there is a pressing need to strengthen the DPE and the PDP units.
As regards improvement of the quality and efficiency of education, at least a quarter of the
results achieved prior to October 1993 have been lost through the destruction of various
textbooks, the shortage of primary school teachers in remote areas of the country (owing
to insecurity), and the shortage of teachers at the secondary and higher levels as well.
The RPP has already compensated for the primary textbooks that were destroyed by
maintaining the standard ratio, which is one book for every two pupils. By contrast, in
connection with secondary textbooks, the Secondary Education Bureau (BEPES) has not
yet been able to regain the 1:2 textbook/student ratio of September 1993. Enrollments are
likely to remain depressed for some time, except at the new "colleges communaux" (lower
secondary). There could be a return to the September 1993 levels of primary and
secondary enrollments if social peace and political stability are restored, but only after a
period for displaced persons and refugees (teachers and pupils) to regain confidence and
return home. The quality of primary and secondary school construction and rehabilitation
has been high. However, the maintenance of premises and equipment is an acute problem
in secondary institutions. Some newer buildings already require painting on the outside
and repairs to their plumbing and electrical installations to forestall rapid deterioration.



vi                               ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
9.    In sum, the long-term sustainability of the results of the project depends largely on
a return to social peace and political stability, the commitment of the two education
ministries to give the DPE its rightful role and the allocation by the Government of
sufficient funds to maintain the secondary schools. It is unusually uncertain because of
Burundi's political problems.
10.   Education remains one of the key sectors for launching efforts aimed at
reconciliation and return to a peaceful social environment. However, given the current
tense context, it is unlikely that the Bank will support massive investments in the sector
prior to a return to a peaceful environment. A more appropriate form of assistance might
be in the form of a modest, bridge-type support to information campaigns, education for
peace efforts and other priority activities that would contribute to improve equity of
access to quality basic and secondary education.
Lessons
11.   The experience with conditionality demonstrates that there are no clear cut
answers as to how best structure conditionality in education projects. The experience of
this project points to the need for good judgment: flexibility of interpretation, combined
with adherence to principles. Lessons emerging from experience point in the following
directions.
12.   Conditions of disbursement for sectoral policy achievement should be used only
when a case can be made that the policy change is a necessary prerequisite for the
justification or successful use of the investment which is being made conditional.
13.   Conditionality should be structured to ensure that there is an incentive for the
beneficiary to meet the conditions.
14.   Conditions should be as unambiguous as possible and clearly understood by all
parties. In cases where generally phrased conditionality is deemed more appropriate than
very specific conditionality, it should include criteria for what constitutes satisfactory
performance. Monitoring tables with indicators can be useful, but should not be
contractual.
15.   The timing of the review of conditionality should coincide with key points in the
school-year or budget-year, so that the Government has the opportunity to take necessary
action without holding up the investment which is dependent upon meeting the
conditionality.
16.   Although it is difficult to foresee major political changes and crises similar to those
that occurred in Burundi during project implementation, all sectoral projects should have
the flexibility to adapt to emergency needs. Through the use of "savings" generated from
efficient management of project-financed activities, the Government was able to finance
part of an emergency program to reconstruct and/or rehabilitate parts of schools damaged
after the October 1993 crisis.



Evaluation Sununary                                                   vii
17.   Finally, project operations financed by UNDP and UNICEF should be reflected in
project financial statements even though the funds were not managed by the Bank. This is
the Bank's principle of completeness, which requires that all resources and expenditures of
a project be reflected in the accounts. In the future, arrangements will have to be devised
in Burundi so that the project's executing agency can reflect parallel financing operations
in the accounts.






REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1881-BU)
1. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. BACKGROUND
Macroeconomic situation
1.1   Burundi is one of the world's poorest countries, with a per capita income of
US$150 in 1994. Its population of some 5.8 million, increasing at 3% per year, lives on
its 27,834 km2. Density per km2 is 208 inhabitants, 10 times the average for sub-Saharan
Africa. Agriculture provides nearly 50% of the gross domestic product, 90% ofjobs and
more than 80% of export receipts. In 1993, the secondary sector accounted for only 19%
of gross domestic product and 11% of exports. Despite relatively strong real economic
growth from 1985 to 1992 (an annual average of 5%), the modem sector has been unable
to absorb the excess rural work force. The private sector has financed only 16% of gross
capital investments over the past 15 years, mainly for small farms and transport. The
public sector is the dominant force in manufacturing, energy, infrastructure, finance and
other activities of the modem sector, providing more than 50% ofjobs in the formal sector
(40,000 employees). Some 80% of investments are financed using external resources.
Sector Background
1.2  In the period 1986-1988, the number of pupils at primary level increased at an
annual rate of 18% owing to a vigorous double-shift policy designed to improve access to
basic education. At the secondary level, the expansion of enrollments was slowed by
measures strictly controlling access to lower secondary studies. During the same period,
the number of teachers at general secondary and teacher-training schools increased by
13%, while those in technical and vocational training declined by 9%. In higher education,
the number of students at the University of Burundi and the colleges increased by 8%.
Gross enrollment rates in primary (69 %), secondary (5%), and higher (1%) education
levels were comparable to those of sub-Saharan Africa (75%, 20% and 1%, respectively)
with the exception of secondary education where access is very limited in Burundi.
Private education was expanding, particularly at the secondary level in urban areas, and
included all informal education provided by church-supported literacy centers.



2                            ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
1.3  In 1988, solutions to the following problems in primary education were still
pending: despite noteworthy increases in enrollments, access was still limited in
disadvantaged rural areas, where gross enrollment rates were below 50% compared with
100% in urban areas; a poor internal efficiency with an average repetition rate of 26%;
shortages of books and other teaching materials and equipment; the difficulty of attracting
and retaining qualified teachers, owing mainly to the inability of training institutes to
recruit motivated applicants and also to poor working conditions in terms of professional
support, housing, and access to the work place; a small number of the students (about
10%) completing the six-year primary education program and continuing to secondary
education; and, at secondary level, overburdened infrastructure, teachers' light weekly
workload, size of the non-teaching staff, and inefficient allocation of public resources to
non-academic services (mainly boarding facilities introduced to deal with the scarcity of
secondary schools and also to promote national unity).
1.4   Private sector and employer participation in vocational training, secondary
technical education, and university-level technical education were either limited or
nonexistent. Training institutes were ill-equipped to achieve the major structural reforms
initiated by the Government and their programs and methods needed to be revised and
adapted to a changing environment.
1.5  In the period 1986-1988, education received about 25% of the total government
budget. The share of education budget allocations for primary education fell from 46% to
44%, while those for general education, teacher training, and technical education remained
unchanged (30%), with those for higher education increasing from 22% to 26%.
1.6  In the period 1988-1993, access to basic education improved, as shown by the 7%
annual increase in primary enrollments, i.e. double the rate of population growth. The
gross primary enrollment rate reached 68% in 1993. At this juncture, the crisis of October
21, 1993 (assassination of the first elected President) occurred, the aftermath of which
continues to affect the sector. The equipment, furniture, and buildings of some primary
and secondary schools were damaged during the October 1993 events, making repairs and
replacements necessary. At the beginning of the 1993/94 academic year, more than 25%
of primary and secondary students failed to return to school, and the primary enroliment
rate fell from 68% in 1992/93 to about 50% in 1994/95. An estimated 25% of primary
and 42% of secondary teachers have not returned to their jobs since early 1994.
Role of the Bank in the education sector
1.7   Bank operations in the education sector in Burundi began with the First Education
Project (Cr. 679-BU signed on April 29, 1977 and closed on March 31, 1983), which
provided assistance for the quantitative and qualitative improvement of primary education
through the construction of primary schools, teacher training for practical subjects,
preparation of new curricula and the production of teaching aids. The Second Education
Project (Cr. 976-BU signed on April 23, 1980 and closed on June 30, 1985) assisted the
Government in expanding and improving its technical education program, essentially to
train skilled workers and technicians in construction, commerce, public works, mechanics,



PrOje Implemaon Assessment                                          3
drafting, typing and bookkeeping. The Third Education Project (Cr. 1358-BU signed on
June 9, 1983 and closed on March 31, 1988) provided assistance for expanding and
improving formal primary and non-formal education and training in rural areas, expanding
lower secondary education, improving primary teacher training and strengthening of the
Rural Primary Education Department (BER), which is responsible for curriculum
development and the production of teaching aids for primary education. Table 2 shows the
relevant Bank credits in the education sector.
1.8   The First, Second and Third Education Projects were completed on schedule and
were considered successful. However, according to the evaluation of the Bank's
Operations Evaluation Department, the results of the three projects were mixed. Primary,
secondary, and technical/vocational education were expanded. The primary teacher
training component of the Third Project increased the number of secondary pupils, but as
some of the graduates did not opt for a teaching career, the numbers have remained below
the projection. The results of attempts to "vocationalize" primary education have been
negative. In the area of institutional strengthening, a competent unit was set up under the
projects for primary programs (13ER) and textbook production was enhanced.
The Education Sector Development Project
1.9   The objectives of the project were to: (a) implement cost containment measures
and facilitate adjustment in the education sector; (b) strengthen the planning, budgeting
and cost-control capacity of the Ministry of Education; (c) improve the quality and
efficiency of primary and general secondary education; and (d) improve rural access to
education.
1.10 Project components were as follows:
(a)   Education costs: a sector adjustment program of 29 significant policy
measures to reduce unit costs and a reallocation of the education budget
towards primary education; and (ii) assistance to MEN to cover the costs
resulting from the temporary increase in the scholarship budget for the
1987/88 academic year;
(b)   Strengthening of MENcapacity: (i) strengthening of the Education
Planning Department (DPE), in order to enable it to implement and
monitor the Program, prepare sectoral adjustment plans and formulate
cost-effectiveness measures, including the public expenditure programs
(PEPs) and public investment programs (PIPs) and related studies on
education; and (ii) strengthening and coordination of school administration
and planning;
(c)   Improvement in the quality and efficiency of education: (i) strengthening
of the role of inspectors, teacher trainers and school directors to help them
provide pedagogic and administrative support to the teachers; (ii) training
of primary and secondary teachers; (iii) improvement in the teaching of



4                             ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
science and technology in secondary schools through the provision of
adequate facilities and materials; (iv) strengthening of the RNgie des
Productions Pedagogiques (RPP), including the provision of materials and
equipment; and (v) award of scholarships for training abroad for specialists
in primary and secondary education; and
(d)   Access to education: (I) strengthening of MEN's capacity to build,
rehabilitate and maintain schools through the reorganization of the BPE;
(ii) construction of 55 primary schools and rehabilitation of 55 existing
schools with furnishings and equipment; (iii) construction of three lower
secondary schools and rehabilitation of 10 existing secondary schools; and
(iv) formulation and monitoring of a school maintenance program.
B. DEFINITION AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.11  The overall objective of the project was to accelerate access to basic education and
to stimulate qualitative development of primary and general secondary education while
maintaining the share of the sector within the Government's recurrent budget at a level of
approximating 20%. The project specifically aimed at an annual increase in enrollments
compatible with the Government's financial and technical resources (and which would
permit universal primary enrollment by 1995-1996), a strengthening of the Government's
ability to control the quantitative and qualitative growth of the system, and an
improvement in the quality of education by upgrading the level of programs and teaching
materials.
1.12  A specific feature was the inclusion of assistance to the Government for the
adoption and implementation of sectoral policies and measures to achieve these objectives.
The measures were in four areas: reduction in cost per student, reduction in subsidies in
secondary and higher education, cost recovery improvement and increased access in
primary education. To avoid over-specificity in the Credit Agreement, these indicators
were distilled into two synthetic measures, namely, specified reductions in units costs at all
levels and a specified increase in the share of education budget allocated to primary
education, which would be the outcome of applying all of the more detailed measures.
Achievement of these two objectives was made a condition of disbursement on the second
tranche of primary and secondary school construction program totaling about US$7.0
million.
1.13  Project objectives and the resources for achieving them were clearly outlined and
met government priorities in the sector. However, strictly speaking, there was no
development strategy for the education sector.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.14 As shown in the Summary of Assessment (Section 2, Table 1), the physical
objectives were met substantially, or even surpassed. Sector policies, public sector



Project Implementation Assessment                                         5
management and private sector development objectives were met partially. The project
had a negligible impact on financial objectives, institutional objectives and poverty
reduction. Sustainability is uncertain, especially since end of 1993 which marked the start
of a profound political and social crisis. The Bank's and the Borrower's performance are
satisfactory, with the exception of deficient compliance with covenants from the part of
Government. In summary, the assessment of the outcome is generally satisfactory.
1. Sectoral Adjustment Measures
1.15  The monitoring of sectoral adjustment measures and their corresponding synthetic
indicators (unit costs and redistribution of budget share by level of education) proved a
more complex task than originally anticipated at appraisal '. During the period 1988-
1992, the trends with respect to the Credit Agreement conditions have been as follows.
1.16 Unit costs. At primary and secondary level, teacher salaries, which constitute the
bulk of expenditures, rose more slowly than the rate of inflation, and teacher: student ratios
were on target. Thus, unit costs for primary and secondary education fell to levels
approaching (but not fully meeting) those mandated in the Credit Agreement. However,
while the unit cost in domestic higher education declined, the rapid escalation in the
number and cost of foreign scholarships resulted in an average unit cost for higher
education above the stipulated level in the Credit Agreement.
1.17   Redistribution of budget shares. Primary enrollments grew somewhat more
slowly than projected, and secondary enrollments grew slightly faster. However,
university enrollments and the number of foreign scholarship recipients rose significantly
faster than projected. The interplay of these factors with the unit cost trends (para. 1.17)
prevented the Government from meeting the second contractual agreement of the Credit
Agreement -- increasing the share of primary education expenditures in the education
budget and reducing the share of higher education.
1.18 In summary, while there was movement in the direction of some of the objectives
embodied in the conditions, none of the quantitative targets specified in the Credit
Agreement had actually been attained. The mid-term review mission (March 1991)
concluded that given the ambiguities in measuring the indicators, a "letter of the law"
interpretation of the disbursement conditions was inappropriate. It also concluded that for
primary and secondary education, the spirit of the conditions had been met since there had
been progress in both the quantitative and qualitative evolution of the system.
1.19  The experience with conditionality demonstrates that there are no clear cut
answers as to how best structure conditionality in education projects. The use of a
synthetic measure (e.g. budget redistribution) has the advantage of permitting the
government some latitude on how it attains the desired budget share. However, it is
The following paragraphs reflect lessons from the mid-term review of the Project and more
specifically from a memorandum prepared by the Principal Operations Officer in the Office of the
Regional Vice-President on April 11, 1991.



6                              ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
vulnerable to failure if one component goes awry or if the overall government recurrent
budget grows at a different rate from that projected at appraisal. Also, both very specific
conditionality and broad formulations such as "satisfactory performance" have some risks.
On the one hand, general conditionality leads to the risk of misunderstanding between the
Borrower and the Bank on whether performance has been satisfactory, leading to a desire
to define more specific criteria for making this judgment. On the other hand, specific
conditionality on key points as a proxy for sound development of the education system can
still miss the mark: a government can fail to achieve a specified quantitative target and still
be moving in the right direction.
1.20  The experience of this project points to the need for good judgment: flexibility of
interpretation, combined with adherence to principles. Lessons emerging from experience
point in the following directions. Conditions of disbursement for sectoral policy
achievement should be used only when a case can be made that the policy change is a
necessary prerequisite for the justification or successful use of the investment which is
being made conditional. Conditionality should be structured to ensure that there is an
incentive for the beneficiary to meet the conditions. Conditions should be as unambiguous
as possible and clearly understood by all parties. In cases where more generally phrased
conditionality is deemed more appropriate than very specific conditionality, it should
include criteria for what constitutes satisfactory performance. Monitoring tables with
indicators can be useful, but should not be contractual. The timing of the review of
conditionality should coincide with key points in the schcol-year or budget-year, so that
the Government has the opportunity to take necessary action without holding up the
investment which is dependent upon meeting the conditionality.
Detailed Assessment of Monitoring Indicators
1.21  The following paragraphs present a detailed assessment of the monitoring
indicators defined in the SAR as reflected in Table 5 in Section 2 that summarizes progress
achieved on all 29 indicators.
1.22 Primary Education. Before October 1993, (i) growth in the number of pupils
(indicator no. 1) was slightly less than projected (631,039 pupils enrolled in 1991/92
against a projection of 781,000, due mainly to insecurity in remote rural areas; (ii) internal
efficiency (indicator no. 5) did not improve as the promotion rate declined considerably
(71% in 1991/92 against a projection of 85%, and a rate of 75% in 1986/87, reflecting the
inability of MEN to control the number of repetitions to pass end-of-cycle examinations;
(iii) the teacher:student ratio (indicator no. 7) increased slower than projected (1:66 in
1991/92 against a projection of 1:70); (iv) the level of the weekly teaching workload
(indicator no. 11) was maintained at the 1986/87 level, as projected; (v) the reduction in
the number of substitute teachers (indicator no. 15) (substitute teachers represented 9%
of the teaching staff in 1991-92 against a projection of 6%) due to the increased number
of women in the teaching profession, and only the irregularities in connection with the
concentration of substitutes in urban areas could really be addressed by corrective
measures; (vi) the reduction in the ratio of non-teachers to teachers (indicator no. 16) was



Project Implementation Assessment                                       7
achieved as projected; and (vii) there was no increase in school fees ("minerval")
(indicator no. 20), the real cost of which dropped by 25% between 1987 and 1991.
1.23  Since October 1993, (i) the number of students declined further in 1994/95 to
slightly less than that of 1987/88, and then recovered by 20% in 1995; (ii) after dipping
slightly in 1994, net enrollment rates returned to their pre-October 1993 level, i.e., 64%;
and (iii) the teacher:student ratio plummeted from 1:63 in 1993 to 1:52 in 1995.
1.24  Secondary Education. Before October 1993, (i) enrollments in general (indicator
no. 2) and technical (indicator no. 3) secondary education increased faster than projected
(42,332 students enrolled in general secondary in 1991/92 against a projection of 30,000;
5,403 students enrolled in technical education against a projection of 4,000), a direct
result of opening of community-based middle schools (colleges communaux) in 1990; (ii)
the increase in the student/teacher ratio (indicator no. 8) was in line with projections; (iii)
slippage was observed in teacher recruitment (indicator no. 25) (1,701 teachers in 1991/92
against a projection of 1,200) and a corresponding poor use of these teachers as regards
their workloads (indicator no. 12) which did not increase as projected; similarly, no
improvement was seen in connection with non-teaching staff to students (indicator no.
17), which increased at 1:44 against a projected decrease to 1:85; (iv) the proportion of
boarding students (indicator no. 19) was maintained at a higher level than forecast (82% in
1991/92 against a projection of 71%). Combined to the maintenance of boarder fees
("minerval') at the nominal 1987 level (indicator no. 21), this situation led to a financial
deficit and a highly critical situation for boarders, whose living conditions seriously
deteriorated.
1.25  Since October 1993, the number of students attending secondary teacher-training
institutes declined by 9%, as against the pre-October 1993 level owing to the crisis. Data
are not available for teachers' workloads, non-boarding school administrative staff, or
boarders.
1.26 Higher Education. Before October 1993, (i) the number of students (indicator no.
4) expanded rapidly by more than 51% as against the projected freeze at the 1987 level,
through admission to the university of almost all qualified secondary school graduates.
Although the initial programming was excessively restrictive (stabilization of the number
of students), this trend reflects a loss of control over the flow of students, and an
unsustainable pressure on accommodation facilities, along with a failure to meet a clear
demand of the modern economy; (ii) repetition rates (indicator no. 6) decreased faster
than projected (18% in 1991/92 against a projection of 30%), but large variations
remained between Faculties and Schools; (iii) the teacher: student ratio (indicator no. 10)
was slightly better than projected (1:11 in 1991/92 against a projection of 1:10), due
mainly to higher-than-expected growth in student enrollment; (iv) similarly, the
proportion between administrative (non-teaching) and teaching staff (indicator no. 18)
was reduced faster than projected (66% in 1991/92 against a projection of 75%); (v)
contrary to the projections, the price of the restaurant ticket was not adjusted (indicator
no. 22), it lost 26% of its purchasing power in 1991 compared to 1987; and (vi) there was
a major increase in the number of those receiving national scholarships for study abroad



8                             ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
(indicator no. 23) (122 students against a projection of 40), which led to a major increase
in the budget for higher education.
1.27  Since October 1993: (i) the number of university students has continued to
increase by an average 7% per year; (ii) repetition rates have remained about the same;
(iii) the teacher: student ratio has increased from 1:11 in 1991/92 to 1:16 in 1994/95
owing to the departure of most foreign technical assistants; and (iv) the number of
scholarships for study abroad (indicator no, 23) has shrunk considerably, from 143 in
1993/94 to 20 in 1994/95.
2. Strengthening of MEN capaciies.
1.28 This component was to be jointly financed by the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) and IDA, on a parallel basis. The UNDP was to finance the services of
a technical assistant in educational planning and administration (30 staff-months), training
costs (41 staff-months), office supplies and equipment. The IDA credit was to finance the
services of a computer specialist, and furniture and equipment for the DPE.
1.29 The UNDP grant of US$600,000 was used to finance technical assistance
(US$364,000), training (US$186,000), office supplies (US$13,500), and equipment
(US$69,500), resulting in an overrun of US$33,000.
1.30 The IDA credit was used to cover an extension of technical assistance in education
planning and administration from November 1991 to June 1994, or 32 staff-months. By
contrast, the Bank did not finance the purchase of computer equipment for the DPE owing
to flaws in the contract award procedure. As the US$467,000 contract had not been
awarded to the lowest bidder, the Bank canceled it and the corresponding Credit amount
on May 18, 1990.
1.31  The tasks for which the DPE is responsible are those of a statistics office and are
summarized as follows: (i) implementation of PEPs; (ii) updating of the management
chart; (iii) rationalization and computerization of school guidance procedures; (iv)
computerization of scholarship management; (v) compiling of the statistical yearbook and
implementation of education-related studies. Planning, monitoring, and evaluation
functions are not specifically assigned either to the DPE or any other agency. To generate
its PEP, the DPE prepared a computerized planning model. The PEPs for two successive
periods were prepared in 1990 for 1991/93 and in 1991 for 1992/94. Starting in 1992,
PEP preparation was assigned to a private consulting firm to which two units were
assigned, each ministry having its own unit comprising two senior officials and reporting
to the office of the Minister. The consultant produced a new planning model and the
1993/95 PEP was prepared without participation of the DPE, which lacks specific links
with the two units. The monitoring indicators could easily be adjusted to the actual state
of affairs until 1992/93. For the 1993/94 and 1994/95 academic years, achievements
relating to the performance indicators had to be estimated, owing to the events that broke
out in October 1993, which hampered data collection in various regions, and also because
of staff departures from the DPE. School guidance procedures were successfully



Project Implementation Assessment                                      9
rationalized and computerized. The computerization of scholarship management was
assigned to a national consultant. A dispute that arose between him and the DPE
prevented his work from being finalized. The statistical yearbooks for 1991/92 and
1992/93 were completed. The DPE produced two documents on the development
strategy for community-based middle schools (1992) and the strategy for the development
and financing of education (1993).
1.32  The tasks that were not carried out by the DPE include: preparation of the PEP
for 1989, and the statistical yearbooks for 1993/94 and 1994/95. As regards the PEP for
1989, all those participating in the various phases of project preparation were transferred
to other positions, and the new officers, both UNDP and government, did not have time to
familiarize themselves with all the documents and were unaware of the area in which the
UNESCO mission would be active. The first Chief Technical Advisor financed by UNDP
(there have been two of them) apparently had no idea of the role he was to play in the
project. The Director of Planning was also unaware that UNESCO (UNDP executing
agency) was to assist in solving problems linked in particular to the financing and
preparation of future education budgets. The upshot was that no PEP at all was produced
in 1989. No statistical yearbooks were compiled after that of 1992/93 for the following
reasons: the events of October 1993, high staff turnover in the DPE, and the lack of
physical and financial resources. The events of October 1993 (assassination of the first
elected President) and the civil uproar the country has been experiencing ever since have
generated an unprecedented crisis and created a climate of permanent insecurity. As a
result, it is hard to obtain data and information from remote areas of the country. Also,
following the departure of the technical assistant for education planning and administration
in June 1994, the DPE has witnessed the departures of three national higher-level staff in
the space of a year: a director, a deputy director, and a senior manager. Underlying these
departures is the lack of financial motivation and insecurity. Currently, there are only two
senior officials in the DPE, an interim director appointed in August 1995 and a planner
who is able to operate the planning model. This shortage of human resources is
compounded by the lack of financial resources. The DPE operating budget is so limited
that it is not possible to repair equipment that has broken down or recruit investigators on
a one-off basis.
1.33  Since the 1993-95 PEP was prepared in 1993 by the consultant and the two
ministerial units there have been no others for the subsequent years. Staff have not been
trained in the use of the new planning model and the PEP units are not operational. The
DPE made the following negative comments on the 1993-95 PEP: flawed data, no table
of indicators, and no comparison with the previous PEP.
3. Improving quality and effectiveness of education
1.34 This component was to be jointly financed by the United Nations Children's Fund
(UNICEF) and IDA on a parallel basis. UNICEF was to finance part of the in-service
training of teachers by organizing seminars during the first two years of the project, and
upgrading the primary education curriculum. The IDA credit was to finance the



10                            ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
following: constructing and equipping 16 regional pedagogical and documentation centers
(CRPD); purchasing 15 vehicles for the regional inspectors; financing 6 staff-months of
consultation for the training of inspectors locally and 65 staff-months of scholarships and
study trips for local specialists; and financing about 760 staff-years of in-service training
for teachers, 10 staff-years of training for inspectors, 60 staff-years of training for school
directors, and 30 staff-years of training for teacher trainers.
1.35  UNICEF financed training seminars for teachers and school directors, computer
equipment (two computers), the purchase of two vehicles, and the production of
textbooks. It has not been possible to obtain the amount actually expended under the
planned budget from UNICEF owing to a filing problem with the accounting records and
a change in the education program administrator. Nor is this information available from
the BPE as, not having received the supporting documents, it did not record the UNICEF
and UNDP operations in its books.
1.36  All the activities financed by the Bank were carried out satisfactorily. The training
courses for school directors and inspectors, as well as the longer-term (55 days) training
for teachers, were completed as planned, and, with the exception of CRPD activities,
under the efficient oversight of the Coordinating Committee for Education Activities
(CCAP).
1.37  CCAP activities exceeded projections. It organized 94 staff training courses
against the 59 originally planned, and 14-day training sessions for primary and secondary
teachers (a total of 3,929 participants during the period 1988-92). In June 1995, it
completed two studies on the "Qualitative Evaluation of Primary and Secondary
Education", and on the "Results of the National Competition and National Tests of Grade
6 and Grade 10 of the Humanities". In the absence of financing after the close of the
Credit, these studies have yet to be finalized. In the first study, completion of an
evaluation of the second half of the primary level and one of the secondary level are still
pending. As regards the second study, the reasons for the successes of the better schools
and the failures of more average institutions remain to be determined on site. Given the
CCAP's effective coordination of BER, BEPES, and BEET activities, the performance of
this unit would be further enhanced if it were institutionalized.
1.38  In connection with the activities of the ministry's materials production unit (RPP),
the Bank financed the purchase of printing equipment. On the technical side, judgments
are favorable as production is well organized. The print quality of books ordered and
produced is first rate, and the general management seems to be efficient. As regards the
BER, the Bank financed the purchase of 6 minibuses for on-site supervision of teachers,
and the purchase of 15 vans for the regional inspectors.
1.39  Each of the CRPD received core reference works comprising 1,040 volumes, plus
a typewriter, and a stencil machine. They have not functioned properly for the following
reasons: lack of structure and organization, and also lack of commitment among those
responsible for the rationalization of human resources. Some books and teaching



Project Implementation Assessment                                   11
materials were damaged after the events of 1993, making it necessary both to replace and
supplement them.
1.40 In 1990, the Government launched a development strategy for community-based
middle schools (collNges communaux (CC)) intended to gradually replace public schools
for lower secondary education. The strategy aimed at increasing the secondary enrollment
ratio, which at the time was only 6.5%. The main idea was to have the new schools built
and maintained by communities, local governments, and possibly NGOs, while the schools'
current operations would be financed by students' parents through school fees, with the
Government covering the costs of teachers' and administrators' salaries, and teaching
equipment. Moreover, as the strategy involved an increase in the number of institutions,
boarding arrangements could be avoided, thus reducing unit costs, namely those
incumbent on the Government. Five community-based middle schools were built initially
(1990/91). Currently, Burundi's 114 communes have 155 CCs, 61 of which were opened
in the 1995/96 academic year alone. Among the communes, four still lack a CC. During
1991-96, there was a parallel development of the first two years of secondary education in
the public and community schools, rather than a shift of public college students to the
community-based schools. This development has been more rapid than expected, and if it
is not brought under control in the short term, the Government will be unable to meet its
share of the expenses. The authorities are therefore contemplating a ban on the opening
of new CCs in communities that already have one, but no official decision has yet been
taken.
4. Access to Education
1.41  The program for the construction of 55 new primary schools and the rehabilitation
of 55 existing ones, the construction of three lower secondary schools and the
rehabilitation of 10 existing secondary schools was carried out in full, and in some cases
exceeded. Whereas initial plans called for 55 new primary schools, 82 were actually built
(II of them by private enterprises), and while 55 primary schools were to have been
rehabilitated, 65 were. In addition to the three secondary schools projected, a further two
were built. The work on three of the 10 secondary schools to be rehabilitated was
performed by the private sector.
1.42  Under the project, the communities were to participate in financing the
construction and equipping of primary schools. This participation was to consist in the
supply of construction materials (rubble stone, gravel, sand, and bricks) and wages for 20
workmen. The level of participation was satisfactory on the whole, until the events of
October 1993. In 1994, the economic situation was such that there were no community
contributions. The BPE stepped in by way of exception to cover the contributions by
providing about FBU 750,000 (US$3,000) for each work site.
1.43 Primary school maintenance is a local government responsibility. Owing to sound
construction (corrugated roofing sheets, exposed brick walls requiring no paint), primary
school maintenance is generally not a problem. By contrast, secondary institutions, to
which the Government allocates inadequate annual maintenance funding--deducted from



12                           ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
school fees--of between FBU 200,000 and FBU 400,000, depending on the number of
students, find themselves in a more difficult situation. Specifically, the furniture and
sanitary installations of boarding schools require more funds for maintenance as the
increased number of boarders causes them to deteriorate rapidly: enrollments are
sometimes two or three times greater than the planned capacity. The BPE has prepared a
maintenance guide and presented it at two seminars for secondary school directors.
However, this guide still needs to be printed and distributed.
1.44  During implementation, the project received the services of 10 technical assistants
financed by the Bank, the UNDP, and the Belgian cooperation agency (Cooperation
Belge). This technical assistance team was comprised of experts in the following fields:
procurement, architecture and public works, civil engineering, education planning and
administration, and printing. Overall, the technical assistance had a beneficial effect on the
project as Burundi nationals were gradually able to take over and continue program
activities, except at the DPE. The number of technical assistants had been reduced to two
before the project ended in December 1995, thanks to BPE and Bank oversight of local
staff training. This was not an easy task in those cases in which technical assistants,
alleging a lack of competence on the part of nationals, wanted to replace local staff.
1.45  In the area of training, 15 project officers (5 for the BPE, 8 for the BER, and 2 for
the RPP) received training abroad in the following fields: procurement, project
management, school construction, accounting and finance, printshop management, and
photocomposition. Seminars and training courses lasted from one to seven months. Some
20 BPE employees have received local computer training in using various types of
software.
D. FACTORS HAVING A MAJOR IMPACT ON THE PROJECT
1.46  Project implementation was influenced by a number of factors, namely: the
nonperformance of the first technical advisor to the Directorate of Education Planning
(DPE), cancellation of the competitive bidding on the computerization of the DPE, the
Government's failure in 1991 to meet the requirements for transition to the second phase
of the project, the high turnover of DPE staff, the lack of physical and financial resources,
the electoral campaigns of June 1993, and the events of October 1993 that distracted
partners and introduced delays.
1.47 Owing to a lack of communication, the first technical advisor financed by UNDP
seemed wholly unaware of the part he was to play in the DPE: completion of PEPs,
updating of the management chart, and compiling of the statistical yearbook. He was
replaced by a second advisor in August 1990. As a result of the first advisor's
nonperformance, no PEP was prepared for 1989 and statistical yearbook production was
delayed by three years.
1.48 The Bank's cancellation of the competitive bidding for the purchase of computer
equipment for the DPE as a result of procedural flaws (May 18, 1990) led to a delay in



Project Implementation Assessment                                      13
DPE compilation of statistics. In fact, it was necessary to wait for the Government to
fund the purchase of this equipment itself
1.49 After the Bank mission of March 1991 determined that the conditions for
proceeding to the next phase of the project had not been met, disbursements for the
categories corresponding to the second phase of Credit 1881 -BU were delayed three
months pending receipt of the Government's letter of commitment and the PEP that
included higher education.
1.50 Following the departure of the technical assistant for education planning and
administration in June 1994, turnover was high at DPE. In the space of a year, three
national senior officers left the directorate: a director, a deputy director, and a senior
manager. Underlying these departures was a lack of financial motivation and the
insecurity originating in the socio-political crisis that broke out in the country after the
events of October 1993 and April 1994. An additional factor was a tightened DPE
budget, which prevented the agency from either repairing equipment that had broken
down or recruiting local consultants on a one-off basis.
1.51  The presidential and legislative elections of June 1993 caused a certain inertia in
the authorities as they were a first in the history of the country. This inertia was reflected
in the sluggishness with which various reform measures were adopted.
1.52  The aftermath of the 1993 crisis hampered project implementation in the following
areas: (i) difficulty in obtaining data and information from remote areas of the country for
the compilation of 1994 and 1995 statistics for the project monitoring indicators and the
statistical yearbook; (ii) intensification of the human resource crisis with at least 25% of
primary and 42% of secondary teachers not returning to their posts since early 1994.
Most of these teachers have either died, become refugees, or returned home to Zaire or
Rwanda. Moreover, almost all school directors had been replaced prior to this date by
"political promotion"; (iii) damage to textbooks, especially at secondary level, in which the
textbook:student ratio has gone from 1:2 before October 1993 to 1:3 currently; (iv) delay
in the rehabilitation of the Gitega Lycee owing to survey delays and lengthy procurement
procedures; and (v) the need to renovate and re-equip various primary and secondary
schools that had been damaged, the cost of which was not provided for in the project.
E. SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS
1.53  After a period of sluggishness between July 1988 and July 1990, the DPE resumed
its activities between August 1990 and June 1994. However, since then it has almost
totally collapsed and preparation of PEPs, statistical yearbooks, and the project
performance indicator table is two years behind, owing to the lack of human and financial
resources. As a result, there is a pressing need to strengthen the DPE and the PDP units.
1.54 As regards improvement of the quality and efficiency of education, at least a
quarter of the results achieved prior to October 1993 have been lost through the
destruction of various textbooks, the shortage of primary school teachers in remote areas



14                            ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
of the country (owing to insecurity), and the shortage of teachers at the secondary and
higher levels as well. The RPP has already compensated for the primary textbooks that
were destroyed by maintaining the standard ratio, which is one book for every two pupils.
By contrast, in connection with secondary textbooks, the Secondary Education Bureau
(BEPES) has not yet been able to regain the 1:2 textbook/student ratio of September
1993. Enrollments are likely to remain depressed for some time, except at the new
"colleges communaux" (lower secondary). There could be a return to the September 1993
levels of primary and secondary enrollments if social peace and political stability are
restored, but only after a period for displaced persons and refugees (teachers and pupils)
to regain confidence and return home.
1.55  The quality of primary and secondary school construction and rehabilitation has
been high. However, the maintenance of premises and equipment is an acute problem in
secondary institutions. Some newer buildings already require painting on the outside and
repairs to their plumbing and electrical installations to forestall rapid deterioration.
1.56  In sum, the long-term sustainability of the results of the project depends largely on
a return to social peace and political stability, the commitment of the two education
ministries to give the DPE its rightful role and the allocation by the Government of
sufficient funds to maintain the secondary schools. It is unusually uncertain because of
Burundi's political problems.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
1.57  The life of the project was initially set at five and a half years. The Credit closing
date has been extended on two occasions, which has resulted in a two-year extension of
the project's life. The Bank has devoted considerable resources to the various stages of
the project cycle, with a total of 185 staff-weeks, at a cost of about US$474,200 (cf.
Table 12 in Section 2). The cost of these resources represent 1.6% of the funds disbursed
(US$30.4 million). In terms of time, the Bank's contribution breaks down as follows: (i)
37 weeks for project preparation; (ii) 24 weeks from appraisal to Board approval; (iii) 11
weeks to effectiveness; (iv) 107 weeks for supervision spread over six and a half years, at
the rate of 16 weeks per annum on site and at headquarters; and (v) 8 weeks for
completion.
1.58 Project identification and preparation began in November 1986. The Bank's
performance in this respect was satisfactory on the whole, given the effort made to align
project objectives with government priorities in the education sector.
1.59  Of the three risks identified during Appraisal, two materialized: (i) the risk
involved in the lack of control over the growth in secondary and higher education
enrollments and the failure to introduce a system for recovering educational costs; and (ii)
the risk involved in the increase in upper secondary and university scholarships. By
contrast, the events of October 1993 were not foreseeable.



Project Implementation Assessment                                     15
1.60 The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. Regular supervision
missions provided advice on policies and measures to assist Government in meeting its
goals in the sector. This was particularly the case in 1991 and 1992 in the course of the
mid-term review of the Project. Also, supervision missions responded diligently to
unforeseen needs, particularly concerning the reconstruction and rehabilitation of facilities
damaged as a result of the October 1993 crisis. The Resident Mission played a key role in
monitoring progress between supervision missions, especially since 1994.
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
1.61  The Borrower's performance during the identification and preparation phase was
satisfactory, given its participation and the initiative shown in identifying project
components.
1.62 In terms of implementation, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory until
September 1993 with the outbreak of the socio-political crisis, an external factor that had
an impact on project implementation. Following the October 1993 crisis, the BPE
continued to perform satisfactorily with the implementation of the emergency program and
the completion of project-financed activities. However, gains achieved in terms of
institutional development were not sustained as a result of massive departures of teachers,
school heads and staff in MEN.
1.63  Prior to the 1993 crisis, the DPE had prepared PEPs for two years, two statistical
yearbooks, and updated the project monitoring indicators through 1993. The CCAP was
able to coordinate the activities of the BER, the BEPES, and the BEET, and effectively
monitored the continuous training of primary and secondary teachers, school directors,
and inspectors. The BPE performed well in the construction and rehabilitation of schools.
The initial program was completed on schedule, with the exception of the rehabilitation of
the Gitega Lycee, which had been assigned to a private enterprise and was completed in
June 1995. A comparative study by the BPE and the private sector in the construction of
school infrastructure, completed in May 1994, notes to the credit of the BPE that: (i) the
construction work is generally of good quality and does not differ appreciably from private
sector equivalents; and (ii) costs and delays were below estimates on the whole. As
regards costs, the study found a difference of 38 to 50% in favor of the BPE. Owing to
the combined effect of these competitive costs and two devaluations of the local currency,
savings of about FBU 200 million (US$790,000) were made in connection with the IDA
Credit. The BPE prepared a maintenance guide for building and equipment maintenance
and initiated a program of awards for the first five secondary schools to distinguish
themselves in the maintenance of school property. By contrast, the auditor performed
poorly as regards meeting the deadline for submitting audit reports within six months of
the closing of the fiscal year. All six audit reports for fiscal 1989 to 1994 were sent to the
Bank late (cf Table 10).
1.64 The Government did not comply, strictly speaking, with the two major conditions
for starting the second phase of the investment program. As indicated in para. 1.18, the
Bank authorized disbursements on the second phase of the construction program after



16                           ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
having received confirmation by Government of its decision to implement policies in
higher education and the production of a PDP for the sub-sector, and the reform program
was generally implemented satisfactorily in spirit despite unforeseen developments. Three
covenants related to maintenance of schools were only partially complied with, especially
since 1993. Finally, all six audit reports were submitted late, but financial management
was found satisfactory.
H. EVALUATION OF RESULTS
1.65 Most project objectives were achieved and sometimes even exceeded, with the
exception of most of the measures for rationalizing the sector (see Tables I and 5 in
Section 2) and the strengthening of the education ministries. In view of the crisis that has
ravaged the country since October 1993, the results on project implementation and
development objectives have been mixed. From 1986/87 to 1992/93, access to basic
education improved, albeit slower than expected. At the beginning of the 1993/94 school
year, more than 25% of primary and secondary students did not return to school. Even
under optimistic assumptions, the gross enrollment rate observed at the very beginning of
1993/94 (68%) might be reached in 1996/97. Enrollments in secondary and higher
education grew faster than projected, demanding a larger than expected share of public
resources. The project financed two studies to measure the impact on quality in 1995,
which have yet to be finalized (para. 1.37).
1.66  The project financed human resource development activities by training teachers,
directors and inspectors for primary and secondary schools. An estimated 25% of primary
and 42% of secondary teachers have not returned to their posts since early 1994. In mid-
1994, the Government launched an emergency program for hiring and training
inexperienced and unqualified secondary students as replacements for primary teachers,
while administrative staff were retrained to teach secondary school.
1.67  Construction and rehabilitation of primary and secondary schools were executed as
planned. However, secondary school maintenance remains a serious problem as the
number of students is disproportionate to the intake capacities of these schools and the
maintenance resources allocated to them annually by the Government are inadequate. The
technical assistants involved national senior staff in their work and the replacement
process generally took place smoothly. The failure noted at DPE level can be traced more
accurately to the turnover of local staff and a lack of attention on the part of the political
authorities. Out of nine studies begun in the course of the project, seven were completed
and two remain to be finalized (Table 7 in Section 2).
I. FUTURE OPERATION
1.68  To continue monitoring of key indicators in the sector, the Government is
committed to rebuild institutional capacity in the DPE to prepare annual statistics and
three-year rolling Public Expenditure Programs, and is seeking assistance from the Bank
(under the Emergency Project) and other donors. There are no specific plans to follow-up



Project Implementation Assessment                                      17
the two studies on impact of project-financed activities on quality of primary and
secondary education since a large proportion of teachers, school directors and supervisors
who benefited from training have been displaced or are no longer working in the education
system. Schools constructed and/or rehabilitated under the project are expected to be
used as intended.
1.69  In conjunction with the Government, the Bank had already begun preparation of a
Fifth Education Project in October 1992. On March 8, 1996, the Government established
a task force with the assistance of UNICEF to study the priority actions for the education
sector, including universal primary schooling, support for the development of technical,
vocational and general secondary education, development of higher education,
development of private education, support for institutional building in education
administration, working conditions for teachers and education financing strategies. The
first drafts were completed in May 1996.
1.70  Education remains one of the key sectors for launching efforts aimed at
reconciliation and return to a peaceful social environment. However, given the current
tense context, it is unlikely that the Bank will support massive investments in the sector
prior to a return to a peaceful environment, A more appropriate form of assistance might
be in the form of a modest, bridge-type support to information campaigns, education for
peace efforts and other priority activities that would contribute to improve equity of
access to quality basic and secondary education.
J. MAIN LESSONS
1.71  The experience with conditionality demonstrates that there are no clear cut
answers as to how best structure conditionality in education projects. The experience of
this project points to the need for good judgment: flexibility of interpretation, combined
with adherence to principles. Lessons emerging from experience point in the following
directions.
1.72  Conditions of disbursement for sectoral policy achievement should be used only
when a case can be made that the policy change is a necessary prerequisite for the
justification or successful use of the investment which is being made conditional.
1.73  Conditionality should be structured to ensure that there is an incentive for the
beneficiary to meet the conditions.
1.74 Conditions should be as unambiguous as possible and clearly understood by all
parties. In cases where more generally phrased conditionality is deemed more appropriate
than very specific conditionality, it should include criteria for what constitutes satisfactory
performance. Monitoring tables with indicators can be useful, but should not be
contractual.
1.75  The timing of the review of conditionality should coincide with key points in the
school-year or budget-year, so that the Government has the opportunity to take necessary



18                             ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
action without holding up the investment which is dependent upon meeting the
conditionality.
1.76  Although it is difficult to foresee major political changes and crises similar to those
that occurred in Burundi during project implementation, all sectoral projects should have
the flexibility to adapt to emergency needs. Through the use of "savings" generated from
efficient management of project-financed activities, the Government was able to finance
part of an emergency program to reconstruct and/or rehabilitate parts of schools damaged
after the October 1993 crisis.
1.77 Finally, operations financed by UNDP and UNICEF are not reflected in project
financial statements because the funds were not managed by the Bank. This runs counter
to the Bank's principle of completeness, which requires that all resources and expenditures
of a project be reflected in the accounts. In the future, arrangements will have to be
devised so that the project's executing agency can reflect parallel financing operations in
the accounts.



2. STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial  Partial    Negligible      Not
applicable
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                                           V
Gender concerns
Other social objectives     r
Environmental objectives                                                 w
Public sector management                  r
Private sector development  l
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability       Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain



20                                ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
C. Bank performance            Highly       Satisfactory      Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                                   V
Preparation assistance                           V
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance        Highly       Satisfactory      Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation
Implementation                                   V
Covenant compliance                                               V
Operation
E. Assessment of           |   Highly       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
outcome                    J satisfactory  _                                  unsatisfactory
_       _    _     _    _       __             X              _    _     _      _    _    _



Statistical Tables                                                       21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit title                  Objectives                 Year of       Status
approval
Credit 679 BU       Quantitative and qualitative improvement in  1977  Closed 1983
First Education     primary education, training of teachers for
Project             the teaching of practical subjects,
preparation of new curricula and production
of teaching aids.
1980      Closed 1985
Credit 976 BU       Expansion and improvement of the technical
Second Education    education program, training of skilled
Project             workers and technicians in the following
areas: construction trades, public works,
mechanics, drafting, typing and
bookkeeping.
1983      Closed 1988
Expansion and improvement of formal
Credit 1358 BU      primary and non-formal education,
Third Education     expansion of lower secondary education,
Project             strengthening of the BER.               1993       Under way;
improvement
priority given
Parallel operations    Incentives to engage in small-scale income-     to social
Credit 2494-BU      producing activities; improvements in living       infrastructure,
Social Action       conditions through the creation of new jobs,       of which
Program             improvement in social services and                 school
infrastructure; encouragement of local             construction
communities to participate in similar              accounts for
development activities, and strengthening of       80% of
the Borrower's capacity to assess and control      demand
trends in local living conditions.
Under way
1994
Rehabilitation of health, education,               In preparation
Credit 2668-BU      agriculture, infrastructure, private sector and  NA
Emergency Action    carrying out of audits and studies
Program
Project objectives are now being formulated
Future operations   by a task force established on March 8,
Fifth Education     1996, by the two education ministries
Project            I     _I_I_I



22                              ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned                   Actual date
Identification                      November 1986                November 1986
Preparation                         December 1986                 December 1986
Appraisal Mission                     April 1987                 April 7-21, 1987
Negotiations                        December 1987              December 7-11, 1987
Board approval                      February 1988               February 23, 1988
Credit signature                         N.A.                    March 28, 1988
Credit Effectiveness                  April 1988                   July 20, 1988
Mid-term Review                          1991                   March 12-22, 1991
Project completion                December 31, 1993             December 12/31/95
Credit closing                      June 30, 1994                 June 19, 1996*
* Date of cancellation of the undisbursed balance of the Credit.
Table 4: Credit disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
'US$ million)
Fiscal year    1988   1989     1990    1991      1992    1993   1994    1995   1996
Estimate (SAR)   -     3,500    8,500    14,500   20,500  26,500  31,500     -
Actual                 3,066    8,181    14,770   19,567  23,718  26,835  29,741  30,725
Estimated/Actual        88%      96%     102%      95%     89%     85%       -
Date of final disbursement: May 29, 1996



Statistical Tables                                                         23
Table 5: Monitoring Indicators
Nber   Object       Level   Measure/Actions  Baseline   Projected    Actual    Latest                  Comments
_____  (1986/87)  (1991/92)  (1991/92)  (1994/95)
1     Enrollment  Primary    Achieve universal  446,000    781,000    631,039    537,795    Slower expansion than anticipated, due
primary education  students                    _             mainly to insecurity in remote rural areas.
2                 Secondary  Limit enrollment   21,000   30,000      42,220     39,676    Rapid expansion starting in 1990-91 with
General   in public schools  students                                   the opening of community-based lower
secondary schools.
3                 Secondary  Stabilize        3,600      4,000       5,403      4,569     Faster growth than anticipated, due
Technical  enrollment around  students                                  mainly to social pressure.
4,000 students   _
4                 Higher     Maintain current   2,500    2,500       3,787      4,628     Uncontrolled growth in response to social
level            students                                    pressures.
5     Internal    Primary    Increase         75%        85%         71%        64%       Poor performance mainly due to inability
Efficiency            promotion rate                                                to control the number of repetitions to
pass end-of-cycle national examination.
6                 Higher     Decrease         43%        30%         18%        16%       Better performance than expected, but
repetition rate in                                           important variations between Faculties
first year                                                   and Institutes.
7     Teacher:    Primary    Increase ratio   1:63        1:70       1:66       1:52      Acceptable ratio given size of classrooms
student                                                                             and double-shift system.
ratios
8                 Secondary  Increase ratio   1:21        1:25       1:25       1:26      Achieved.
General
9                 Secondary  Increase ratio   1:11        1:15       1:13       1:11      Due mainly to the slower-than- expected
Technical                                                               growth in student enrollment.
10               Higher    Increase ratio     1:8        1:10        1:11       1:16      Achieved and even surpassed, due mainly
to higher-than-expected growth in
student enrollment



24                            ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
11    Teachers'   Primary    Maintain at       37 hours   37          37         NA         Achieved.
workload               current level     per week
12                Secondary  Increase gradually  16 hours   21        18         NA         Teaching staff continue to be assigned to
General                      per week                                     administrative positions in MEN and
._______________  __________  _________  _________   other  m inistries.
13                Secondary  Increase gradually  16 hours   18         15        NA         Not achieved.
Technical                    per week
14                Higher    Increase gradually  204 hours  240        220        NA         Increase from 204 to 220 implemented
per year                                    later than expected (in 1991/92).
15    Substitute   Primary    Reduce number of 10.6% of  6%           9%         NA         Not achieved; explained by the large
Teachers               substitute teachers teachers                                   proportion of women benefiting from
_____   ___________                  __________                                   leave  (maternity  and  other).
16    Non-        Primary    Reduce            8% of       5%         5%          NA        Achieved.
teaching               proportion        non-
Staff                  between teaching  teaching
and non-teaching   staff                              .. .
17                Secondary  Decrease ratio     1:65       1:85        1:44       NA        Not achieved.
non-teaching staff
to students
18                Higher     Reduce            97% of    75%          66%         NA        Not achieved.
proportion        adminis-
between admin.   trative
and teaching staff  staff
19    Boarding    Secondary  Reduce             86% of    71%          82%        85%        Actual figures do not take into account
Services               proportion of     students                                     enrollment in community-run lower
boarding students                                              secondary schools which do not offer
boarding services.



Statistical Tables                                                          25
20    Cost        Primary    Increase fees     200 FBU   400 FBU    300 FBU   300 FBU   Not achieved.
Recovery              (constant 1987     per                   (current)  (current)
FBU)             student,
per year
21                Secondary  Increase fees for   6,000    9,000       9,000      NA         Achieved.
General    boarding students  FBU per   FBU        FBU
and                          student,              (current)
Technical                    per year        .
22    Fellowships Higher     Reduce number of 120         40          122        20        Not achieved. Government claimed that
fellowships to   fellow-                                      it needed more trained graduates.
foreign countries  ships
23                Higher    Increase fees for   100 FBU    150 FBU    150 FBU   128         Not achieved. Recent increase as a result
meals            per day                                      of measures taken to improve efficiency
_____ _ _________I                                                                      in  University.
24    Impact on   Primary    Increase number   7,140       11,200     9,582      10,285    Not achieved. Due to slower-than-
Teaching               of teachers      teachers                                     expected growth in enrollment.
Staff
25                Secondary  Increase number   1,000       1,200      1,701      1,759      Not achieved. Due to need to recruit
of teachers      teachers                                    teachers for community-run lower
secondary schools and inability to
._________                                 increase teacher's workload.
26                Higher     Maintain current   270       270         356        283        Not achieved. Recent decrease due to
number of        teachers                                     departure of many staff following 1993
teachers               .                                      events.



26                            ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
27    Budgetary   Primary    Increase share of  45%        54%        44%         41%        Partly achieved, but recent trends show
Allocation             primary education                                              dramatic decrease in budget allocation to
by Sub-                in total education                                             basic education.
sector                 budget
28                Secondary  Reduce share of   30%         27%         28%        29%        Partly achieved.
secondary
education
29                Higher      Reduce share of   22%        17%         25%        27%        Not achieved. Continued growth of
higher education                                               enrollment in the University without
measures for controlling public costs
jeopardizes efforts to improve access to
basic education.
Al   Unit Costs  Primary    Reduce unit cost   4,200       * 3,800 at  4,900      8,340      Not achieved. Recent increase reflects
(synthetic             per student       FBU per   mid-term;  FBU          FBU        adjustments of salaries and benefits to
indicator)             (constant 1987    year        * 3,500 in  (current)  (current)  teachers.
FBU)                         1992
A2                Secondary  Reduce unit cost   43,200     * 40,000    38,200     65,800     Achieved, but recent figures indicate an
General    per student, per    FBU per   mid-term;  FBU        FBU        upward trend.
year              year       * 37,000   (current)  (current)
in 1992
A3                Secondary  Reduce unit cost   86,500     * 80,000    76,600     131,800   Achieved.
Technical  per student, per    FBU per   mid-term,  FBU        FBU
year              year       * 73,000   (current)  (current)
.._______                      in 1992
A4                Higher      Reduce unit cost   303,000    * 270,000   443,620    645,420   Not achieved, due mainly to uncontrolled
per student, per    FBU per   mid-term;  FBU        FBU        expansion of enrollment at University of
year              year       * 240,000  (current)  (current)   Burundi and increasing costs of
,_________  _________   ________ _______  _ ___in    1992          fellow ships.



Statistical Tables                                                            27
Table 6: Key indicators for future operation
It is important to note that there are no clear, agreed upon plan for the future operation of
project-financed activities. However, the Government is expected to continue monitoring of
key performance indicators through the collection and analysis of education statistics and the
preparation of three-year rolling Public Expenditure Programs on an annual basis. To this
end, the MEN is seeking assistance to rebuild institutional capacity in the DPE. Also, it is
expected that studies on quality would be continued, in particular on learning assessment at
the end of the primary cycle.



28                                  ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
Table 7: Studies included in the project
Study                            Objective                         Status                           Impact
1. Comparative study of the BPE and   Compare costs and performance    Study completed in 1994.       Low; restructuring started within
private school construction sector     of BPE and private sector.                                     Managing Council; upcoming
establishment of an assets management
office supported by a UNESCO
mission
2. Financial and institutional study of  Institutional and management  Study carried out in March 1995    Low, because most recommendations
University of Burundi                  strengthening                                                  not yet implemented (now being
studied by task force)
3. Study on the strategy and plan of action   Development plan for the  Carried out in December 1995.  Report now being analyzed by the task
for the development of community-based    education sector            Final report produced in April  force
and technical secondary education and                                  1996
vocational training
4. Study on the review of public      Improvement in public finance    Carried out in December 1995.  Report still being analyzed
expenditures                                                           Final report expected in mid-1996
5. Study on the institutional and financial   Restructuring study     Final report produced in February   Adoption of the new organization chart
future of the RPP                                                      1993                           and start of recommendation
implementation
6. Evaluation of the qualitative       Evaluation of the impact of     Study carried out in June 1995  Not yet finalized. The Government
improvement in primary and secondary  teacher training and provision of                               intends to request financing to allow
education                             teaching aids                                                   completion of this study.
7. Study of the results of the national  Scientific and pedagogical analysis  Study carried out in June 1995  Not yet finalized. The Government
competitive examination and national tests   of the results of the last three                         intends to request financing to allow
for 10th year and the first year of    sessions of the national                                       completion of this study.
humanities                             competitive examination and
national tests
8. Study on the conditions for promotion    Regulation of access depending on  Analysis done in the University  Recent establishment of a commission
from secondary to higher education     institutional capacity         audit                           to implement the recommendations



Statistical Tables                                                               29
Table 8A: Project costs
Planned                 Actual costs
Local   Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign    Total
costs    costs             costs    costs       _
1. Education planning                   0.4       1.3    1.7      0.2        0.9       Ll
2. Qualitative improvement
(a) primary                      2.8       3.2    6.0       1.4       1.6       3.01
(b) secondary                    0.5       1.4    1.9       0.5       1.3        1.8
3. Quantitative improvement
(a) primary                      2.2       5.7    7.9       1.7       4.4       6.1
(b) secondary                    2.8      10.4   13.2       1.9       7.4       9.3
4. Project administration               0.2       0.7    0.9       1.6       6.9       8.5
5. Scholarships                         0.2       1.3    1.5       0.2       1.3       1.5'
6. Provisions
(a) physical contingencies       0.5       1.5    2.0         -         -
(b) financial contingencies      1.5       0.9    2.4         -         -          -
TOTAL                                  11.1      26.4   37.5       7.5      23.8     31.3*
* Not including UNICEF disbursements, for which data are not available.



30                            ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
Table 8B: Project financing (US$ million)
Planned                            Actual
Source
Local costs   Foreign     Total      Local      Foreign     Total
costs                  costs      costs
IBRD                 6.3        25.2       31.5         7.5        23.8      31.3
Government                                  4.4         4.4           -         -
UNICEF               0.3         0.7         1.0       n.d.        n.d.       n.d.
UNDP                   -         0.5        0.6                     0.6       0.6
TOTAL               11.1        26.4       37.5        n.d.        n.d.       n.d.
Table 9: Economic costs and advantages
As neither net present value (NPV) nor economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at
appraisal, there are no reference data for an update. Sector financial projections were made
at the time of appraisal on a variety of policy assumptions producing unit costs reductions at
each level of education, and the variant with the highest savings chosen.



Statistical Tables                                                                        3 1
Table 10: Status of legal covenants
Section of the    Covenant type       Status       Original    Revised             Description of Covenant                   Comments
Credit                                        fulfillment  fulfillment
Agreement                                          date        date
3.02 (a)      Sectoral policy    Non-compliance   Annually               Exchanges of views before March 31 of each    The targeted reduction in unit
year on the reduction in unit cost per student    costs was not met until 1992/93.
of some 9.1 % for primary, 7 % for general  The data for 1993/94 and
secondary, 7.5% for technical secondary and    1994/95 are not complete owing
10% for higher education                  to the crisis that began in
October 1993.
3.02 (b)      Sectoral policy    Partial          Annually               Exchanges of views by March 31 of each year   Budget targets were generally
compliance                              on the reallocation of the budget: primary 45-   met until 1993.
50%; secondary 30-28%; higher 22-20%
3.03          Implementation     Partial          Annually               Preparation and submission to IDA for     The PIPs and PEPs for 1989/91
compliance                              approval; PIP for 1989/91 no later than   were not prepared, nor were
September 30, 1988; a PEP for 1989/91 not    those subsequent to 1993
later than September 31, 1988; and
subsequently PIPs and PEPs no later than
September and December of each year,
respectively
3.03 (d)     Implementation      Complied with                           Any new investments for more than US$0.5  Documents relating to an ADB
million must be first reviewed and accepted by  loan were submitted to IDA in
IDA                                       1993 for approval
3.04 (a)     Implementation      Complied with                           Reorganization of the BPE and establishment    The reorganization ended in
___________    ________________  _______I_ of the  DSC   April  1988.
3.04 (c)     Implementation      Complied with                           Take all necessary steps to recruit scholarship
holders after their studies have been
completed.



32                                  ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
Section of the    Covenant type       Status        Original    Revised             Description of Covenant                   Comments
Credit                                         fulfillment  fulfillment
Agreement                                           date        date
3.05 (a)      Implementation     Complied with                            Submit an annual school construction plan no
later than September 30 of each year
3.05 (b)      Maintenance        Partial                                  BPE competitive bidding for auditing the use    Audit done in 1992 by BPE for
compliance                              of maintenance finds by administrators of  secondary schools and followed
local communities and by school directors  by the awarding of prizes to the
five best maintained schools.
3.05 (c)      Maintenance        Partial                                  Assurance by the Government that a sufficient  In certain schools the parents'
compliance                              share of the parents' contribution is reserved to  contribution is sufficient for
finance the maintenance of primary schools  maintenance.
3.05 (d)      Maintenance        Partial                                  Assurance by the Government that adequate
compliance                              funds from the annual operations budget of
secondary schools would be allocated for their
maintenance
3.06          Procurement        Complied with                            Procurement for furniture, works and services   With one exception regarding the
of consultants is governed by Annex 4 of the    competitive bidding for computer
Credit Agreement                          equipment for the DPE and
______________   _________   _________                                              which  was canceled  by  the  Bank.
4.01          Accounting/Audit   Partial                                  The Borrower provides IDA within the six   All six audit reports from the
compliance (with                        months following the closing of each fiscal  period of 1989 to 1994 were
delays)                                 year with an audit report (including certified    submitted late. The 1995 audit is
statements of expenditures) relating to that  scheduled to start in April 1996.
fiscal year
Schedule 1    Disbursement       Partial                                  No withdrawals shall be made in respect of  The mid-term review mission
compliance                              Categories 2 and 4 of Schedule 1 unless the  (March 1991) recommended
Association shall be satisfied (a) with the  flexibility in examining progress
progress achieved by the Borrower in the   achieved by the Borrower and a
carrying out of the Program and (b) that the  series of actions to be undertaken
actions described in Schedule 3 have been  by Government. Disbursements
taken.                                    under Categories 2 and 4 were
I allowed in early 1992.



Statistical Tables                                                                      33
Schedulc 3    Disbursement     Partial                              Actions referred to in para. 3 (b) of the DCA:   See Section 2, Annex 5 for
compliance                          1. reduction in real terms of the budgetary cost  detailed account of progress
per student by 9.5% at the primary level, 7%    achieved under the Program.
at the general secondary level, 7.5 % at the
technical secondary level and 10% at the
higher level in relation to the 1986-87 costs;
and 2. restructuring of the education budget by
changing the distribution of actual public
expenditures as follows: (a) increase in
primary education from 45% to 50%; (b)
reduction in secondary education from 30% to
28%; and (c) reduction in higher education
from 22% to 20%.



34                                 ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
Table 11: Compliance with operational manual directives
Title and number of directive                              Comments
1. OD 13.05 project supervision (para. 4)        The Bank made a single supervision mission
in 1990 and again in each year 1994-1996,
which is below the average
Table 12: Bank resources; Staff inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of project cycle  Estimated                    Modified                 Actual
Weeks     USS (in      Weeks    US$ (in      Weeks        USS (in
.____ _____ _____ ____  ___thousands)    thousands)               thousands)
Before appraisal (preparation    -                                        37.1        90.1
and pre-appraisal)
Appraisal through Board     -          -           -                      24.0        58.2
approval                  I          I           I
Board approval through      -        I             -                      11.0        27.4
effectiveness               _                      _        l
Supervision                 38.0*     70.5**       30.0*     41.3**       106.9       291.6
Completion                  9.0                    8.0                    6.2         6.9
GRAND TOTAL                 47.0                   38.0                   185.2       474.2
*     For fiscal 1994, 1995 and 1996.
* For fiscal 1995 and 1996.



Statistical Tables                                                                   35
Table 13: Bank resources: Missions
Performance
rating
Stage of project cycle   Month/    No. of   Days    Specialized staff  Implementation   Development  Types of
year    persons  in field  skills represented    status         Impact      problems
Through appraisal           06/86     2         11       A,E
11/86     3         11       SE,A,E
04/87     3                  SE,A,E
Appraisal through board     10-11/87   3        11       SE,A,E
approval
Supervision                 09/88     1         8        A                1                1
Supervision                 12/88     1         5        E
Supervision                 02/89      1        11       SE                1               1              M
Supervision                 11/89     2         15       SE,A             1                2              M
Supervision                 02-03/90   1        8        A                1                1              M
Supervision                 03/91     4         11       SE,A,E(2)        3                2              M
Supervision                 07/91     1         8        A                No rating        No rating
Supervision                 01/92     3         12       SE,A,E           2                1              M
Supervision                 09-10/92   4        18       SE,A,E,C         1                1              M
Supervision                 05/93     3         12       SE,A,E           1                I
Supervision                 09-10/93   5        19       SE, ES,A,C(2)    1                1              M
Supervision                 03/94     4         6        SE, ES,A,OO      2                2              M
Supervision                 02/95     2         15       SE, ES,OO        S                S
Completion                  03/96     1         14       C                                                M
A     =     Architect                        TYPES OF PROBLEMS:
C     =     Consultant                       F      =     Financial
DC    =     Division Chief                   S      =     Studies
DDC  =      Deputy Division Chief            M      =     Management
SE    =     Education Specialist             0      =     Overall situation
E     =      Economist                       TA    =      Technical Assistance
FA    =     Financial Analyst                PERFORMANCE RATING:
ES    =     Implementation Specialist        1      =     No problem or minor problems
PES/PIS =   Project Implementation Specialist   2   =     Moderate problems
00    =      Operations Officer              3      =     Major problems, solution in sight
RS    =     Training Specialist              4      =     Major problems, no solution in sight
TTS   =     Technical Training Specialist                  Nothing to report under this program
S     =      Satisfactory






ANNEX



BORROWER'S PROJECT EVALUATION
SUMMARY REPORT
A.   Proiect DescriDtion
The key objectives of the Fourth Sector Education Development Project, funded
under IDA Credit No, 1881 -BU, were to:
-     implement cost containment measures and facilitate adjustment in the
education sector;
-     strengthen the planning, budgeting, and cost-control capacity of the
Ministry of Education;
-     improve the quality and efficiency of primary and secondary education;
-     improve access to education.
The Credit Agreement, signed on March 28, 1988, named two co-financers besides
IDA, and called for direct local counterpart contributions in the form of support from
beneficiary communities with primary school civil works.
External funding totaled US$37,461,000, with the following breakdown:
IDA          US$31,591,100
UNDP                648,200
UNICEF            1,144,000
An amount equivalent to SDR 351,000 earmarked for the purchase of computer
equipment was canceled following difficulties in concluding a procurement contract.
In the circumstances that prevailed in 1987, the time when the project was going
through the appraisal process, the objectives indicated above were very pertinent, and they
remain so at the present time, especially considering the fact that the social and political
crisis the country has been wrestling with for almost three years now has raised doubts
regarding progress in certain spheres.
Various action programs, discussed in detail elsewhere in this report, were
launched in order to achieve the objectives listed:



Annex B: Borrower Project Evaluation                                  39
construction of 55 new primary schools and rehabilitation of 55 existing
primary schools, with local communities participating by providing heavy
construction materials and a number of workmen (20);
construction of three new junior high schools and rehabilitation of 10
existing high schools;
in-service teacher training and support in the form of science equipment,
books for primary- and secondary-school libraries, computer requirements
for planning purposes, purchase of vehicles for school inspectors,
scholarships, technical assistance, etc.
UNDP cofinanced computer requirements and technical assistance in the planning
sphere, while UNICEF was responsible for training of primary-school teachers.
A management chart and performance indicators were developed to allow
monitoring of progress in executing measures designed to support education sector
adjustment as one aspect of the Government's broader purpose of general structural
adjustment.
The Education Projects Office (BPE), the project executing agency, was
reorganized to include a School Construction Department (DSC) and in conjunction with
the Education Planning Department (DPE) monitored implementation of the measures
designed to promote school maintenance and attract the private sector into the school
construction business, thus making it possible to compare public- and private-sector costs
in this sphere.
It was agreed between the parties that the undisbursed balance of Credit proceeds
should be reallocated to other priorities and that the project closing date should be
deferred accordingly. This made it possible to rehabilitate a number of schools damaged
during the crisis and to carry out studies in preparation for future projects.
B.    Project Achievements
In both quantitative and qualitative terms, project achievements exceeded
projections, even if there were some shortfalls in such areas as the scholarships
component, reduction/distribution of specific costs by level of education, certain technical,
financial and budgetary aspects of the planning process, infrastructure maintenance, etc.
The crisis that broke out in October 1993, and which continues, undermined
progress with some project components, adversely affecting quality of education, access
to schooling, and education planning.



40                            ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
The following table sets out the main project achievements in terms of the initial
program - in the areas of civil works, training, and sector studies:
COMPONENT                       INITIAL            ACHIEVEMENTS
PROGRAM
1. CivilWorks
-  Pmalv: Construction                       466.8                   766.5
Rehabilitation                    191.8                  375.9
Renovation                                               110.0
Secondarv
Construction                      411.3                  784.7
Rehabilitation                    858.6                  1,093.9
Renovation                                                95.7
2. Training
-  Prirnarv                                  283.1                   162.0
-  Seconda                                    35.2                   14.3
3. Scholarships
-  Abroad                                     38.1                   37.3
4.  Studies                                                          18.3
5.  Miscellaneous Support                    1,824.1                2,583.6
4,109                 6,042.2
Although actual achievements exceeded projections in the case of the civil works
and training components, the crisis brought reversals in achievements in the other fields
indicated, as a consequence of the accompanying violence, which not only caused
numerous deaths among teachers but interrupted both schooling activities and schooling
schedules in the regions of the country affected. The problem was exacerbated by the
departure of expatriate personnel and by the movement of population groups out of
conflict zones, an exodus which included teachers preferring to work in comparatively
safer areas. This undermined the anticipated improvements in access to schooling and in
quality of education significantly, while also limiting project support measures,



Annex B: Borrower Project Evaluation         _                        41
implementation of which was made difficult by the disorder inevitably accompanying the
crisls.
School Maintenance
As part of the project execution process, sensitization exercises were conducted
for school administrators. They consisted of three seminars, plus inspection visits to
secondary schools to verify that reconmmendations on cleanliness and maintenance were
being followed, the final conclusion being that the achievement level in this arena was still
very low. The crisis and the damage and destruction accompanying it inevitably added to
the difficulties encountered.
All parties concemed agree that the school maintenance effort should be continued
by those on the scene so that the sustainability of the investments made can be assured.
For the moment, the authorities are not in command of sufficient means to cover all needs,
although a facilities management department could possibly be set up at some point in the
future with a mandate to monitor the general condition of school infrastructure more
closely.
Education Planning
Considering the various stages traversed up to June 1994, it may be affirmed that
real progress was achieved, with IDA support, even if some shortcomings remain, mainly
at the institutional level and in producing up-to-date statistics.
It may be noted that technical assistance arrangements came to an end in June
1994, as did the accompanying material support, which it was not possible to replace.
Since then, DPE has lost a number of its professional staff, beginning with its higher-level
management - in addition to experiencing crisis-related difficulties with data collection
and, by extension, with updating of those indicators which in the present circumstances are
a key priority if there is to be a better grasp of the prevailing situation and if projection of
the sector management measures needed is to be effective.
The measures relating to education-sector public investment and public
expenditure programs (PIPs and PEPs, respectively) were never fully implemented at any
time during either the original project execution period, or the months of extensions.
Sector Adjustment Measures
The management chart and performance indicators developed for this component
while the project was in the preparatory stages were designed to be updated at regular
intervals by BPE, a process that went ahead satisfactorily until shortly before the outbreak
of the crisis. All told, good progress was made, although some slippage affected a number
of these measures. The most recent version of the chart, accompanied by comments on
planning activities, is included in the annexes to this report.



42                          ICR - Burundi: Education Sector Development Project
CCAP Activities
The responsibility of CCAP (Coordinating Committee for Education Activities)
was to oversee actions to improve the quality of education, and to do so in conjunction
with the various pedagogical centers directly engaged in organizing those actions. It
clearly accomplished its mandate, considering the work done and the number of members
of the teaching corps who had the benefit of in-service training.
The CRPDs (Regional Centers for Pedagogy and Documentation), however, failed
to achieve the objectives set for them. Measures to relaunch them are called for, and also
reorganization of their management committees so that present difficulties can be
resolved.
C.   Borrower and Bank Performance
C. 1   Borrower Performance
As indicated above, the project implementation record was generally satisfactory.
The technical assistance provided to assist national personnel with the
implementation process was also satisfactory, except for difficulties with back-up and
technology transfer arrangements that affected two of the local entities concerned. The
school construction program was carried out as scheduled and achieved the quality levels
aimed for, while the teacher-training programs overseen by CCAP benefited 9,000
primary- and secondary-school instructors. The teaching materials supply component
(textbooks and science equipment), in combination with better teacher performance, was
an undoubted success in improving the quality of education. On the other hand, the
CRPDs failed to exert the anticipated degree of influence on primary schools by
organizing pedagogical demonstration activities; moreover, their documentary and library
resources and other materials were used mainly by the teaching staff of the secondary
schools which had one of these centers on their premises.
In the opinion of the CCAP itself, steps should be taken to relaunch the CPRD
program and ensure that its objectives are achieved. Success here, as elsewhere, will
depend primarily on the motivation and commitment of those responsible for management
of the centers.
The increase in capacity expected of DPE (Education Planning Department) as a
result of project support did actually materialize and remain in force until June 1994,
although difficulties were experienced on occasion at the institutional level, and there was
also a recognized risk that a capacity gap might manifest itself again when project
technical assistance arrangements, and the operational support associated with them, came
to an end.



Annex B: Borrower Project Evaluation                                   43
The outbreak of the crisis in 1993, and the adverse consequences of the associated
lack of security, led to the departure of DPE's technical assistance personnel and turnover
among its professional staff and higher-level management. These difficulties and the
disruption precipitated by the crisis also hindered introduction of certain education sector
adjustment measures (as may be seen from the management chart and performance
indicators).
The end result is so much doubt as to what progress was actually made that it is
clear DPE needs further material support and further staff training if it is to be fully
capable of carrying out its mandate. Also required is an institutional analysis focused on
reduction of DPE's high staff turnover rate (for reasons of professional advancement) and
how to provide effective support for education policy.
C.2   Bank Performance
The project benefited from the frequent Bank supervision missions, each of which
provided an opportunity to evaluate progress and to identify and rectify any
implementation problems. This method of procedure is a guarantee of successful project
execution.
In addition, pertinent information was regularly communicated to the Education
Projects Office by means of seminars which not only dealt with the Bank's major policy
shifts but also provided forums in which beneficiaries could express their opinions and
suggestions regarding strategies for real development and poverty reduction.
Throughout the course of the project, the Government had the benefit of
substantial support in connection with such new priorities as supplementary school
construction and rehabilitation programs, rebuilding programs after outbreak of the crisis,
and additional educational studies. In general, the Government's requests for notices of
non-objection and for postponements of the project closing date were dealt with
favorably.
Arrangements for approval of procurement contract awards and requests for
disbursements were particularly satisfactory, in the sense that at no time did the project
executing agency find itself in difficulties with its partners, suppliers, or service providers.
Finally, the Fourth Education Sector Development Project indirectly supported
additional BPE programs and miscellaneous services focused on other government
departments and promoters active in the education sector - for instance, financing
arrangements with other donors (KfW, ACCT, UNHCR) which facilitated various studies
with an impact on education development.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28085
C_X    AMEROON
ZA.  Tono a,h=    RBURUNDI
TAZNAOCLAN
AHWtA                                                                    k. \ ~   A   X                            ^
F  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
\CYvn-u .{                                   RWANDA;  KIRUNDO   KIRUNDO
CIBITOKE         (                               7MUYINGA                         g        TNAI
N<& 7NGOZI '
\      CIBITOK,E__                             /              '
g   Z   ZA    5 KAYA~~NZA         .     KR                             CANKUZO <
B     -                                 tKARUZI                    
To Mlong  "A/                                                                    RYI     
>    i    13B~~UJUMBURA                                         UYI0GI
$   j    il    <9         - ~~GITEGA           ---             
<7\ j       \           J        __        >       RUTANA         )
p  \   _   \\   =4/ B~~~UTUTSI              UTANA 
3W~~~~~~~7
-.w           l          '\%    9<\>-RIg-<                       _)       ahofi  t                Paved Roads
Routes RevetOes
rI  ~ ~ j~ International Airport
    Aero port Intemnational
Province Capitals
Chef-Lieux des Province
National Capital
"'Capitale Nationale
- i m> /-Province Boundaries
Frontieres des Province
-                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
Frontieres lnternationales
g      ,/             / ~~~~~~~~~This map was propmWn by At Map Ddpi Unit of th Workl Bank.
/           /0 ~shown on hb mapd no kn    Ow                         \0 of      30  40 
,  )  rs. _a___    nl or occnphnce   of juch boundofrhsnt    h   ...............J.  U  . . . . 96_
JUNE 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      16095
Type: ICR



