Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1881 BU
(Education Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 28, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1881 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated December 2,  1987 from 
the Borrower describing a program of policies, goals and actions  designed to achieve 
an adjustment of the Borrower's education sector (the "Program") and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution of the Program 
and, as part of the Program, having undertaken to carry out the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower has obtained from the United Nations Development Program 
("UNDP") a grant (the "UNDP Grant") in an aggregate amount of five  hundred 
Page  2
ninety-nine thousand three hundred eighty-nine dollars ($599,389)  to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in two agreements 
(the "UNDP Grant Agreements") entered into between
the Borrower and UNDP on June 30, 1987 and December 4, 1987, respectively; and
(D)
the Borrower has obtained from the United Nations Children's Fund 
("UNICEF") a grant (the "UNICEF Grant") in an amount of one million dollars  
($1,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and  conditions 
set forth in a letter (the "UNICEF Grant Letter") dated October 29, 1987 from UNICEF 
to the Borrower;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last  sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BPE" means Bureau des Projets Education, the Education Project Unit of 
the Borrower's Ministry of Education, having the task, inter alia, of monitoring and 
evaluating execution of the Project;
(b)
"DCS" means Direction des Constructions Scolaires, the School 
Construction Unit of BPE to be established within BPE with the task of constructing 
and maintaining the Borrower's education facilities;
(c)
"DPE" means Direction de la Planification de l'Education, the  
Directorate of Educational Planning of the Borrower's Ministry of Education, having 
the task, inter alia, of monitoring and implementing the Borrower's education 
development plans;
(d)
"MEN" means Ministere de l'Education Nationale, the Borrower's Ministry 
of Education;
(e)
"PEP" means the Borrower's three-year rolling Public Expenditure Program 
encompassing all public expenditures for the education sector for each succeeding 
three-year period;
(f)
"PIP" means the Borrower's three-year rolling Public Investment  Program 
encompassing all investment expenditures included in a given PEP;
(g)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the advance granted by the 
Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 12, 1987 and 
June 18, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
(h)
"RPP" means Regie des Productions Pedagogiques, the Borrower's  entity 
responsible for the editing, printing and distributing of educational  materials to 
the schools in the Borrower's territory; and
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Development Credit  Agreement, an amount 
in various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
23,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and  payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the  provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on  behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself  the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized  amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon 
be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of  the Development Credit Agreement to the 
respective dates on which amounts  shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any  kind  imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower  shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments  payable on each 
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1998 and ending February 1, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2008, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
Page  4
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase  in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so  requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project through MEN with due diligence and efficiency  and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, and 
in any case not later than March 31 of each year, starting on March 31, 1989, exchange 
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the  Program and the actions specified 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comments a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.03. In order to carry out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30, 1988 submit to the Association the PIP for 
the years 1989 through 1991 with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
not later than December 31, 1988, submit to the Association the PEP for 
the same years indicated in subparagraph (a) above with terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
not later than September 30 and December 31, respectively, of each year 
thereafter until Project completion, submit to the Association the revised PIP and PEP 
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(d)
ensure that any new investment in the education sector, not included in 
the PIPs, and worth more than $500,000, be previously reviewed and agreed with the 
Association regardless of the source of financing of such investment.
Section 3.04. In order to carry out Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
reorganize BPE by establishing DCS;
 
(b)
select candidates for fellowships for training abroad in accordance with 
criteria agreed upon with the Association; and
(c)
make all the necessary  arrangements  to retain the services of such 
candidates upon completion of their studies.
Section 3.05. In order to carry out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30 of each year until Project completion and 
beginning with September 30, 1988, submit to the Association an annual  school 
Page  5
construction plan indicating, inter alia, the number and sites of  schools to be built 
in accordance with the existing school maps for the following calendar year;
(b)
under the responsibility of MEN's Department of Planning, with the 
assistance of BPE, control and monitor the use of maintenance funds by the  local 
community administrators to provide financing for primary schools and by the school 
principals for secondary schools;
(c)
ensure that a sufficient percentage of parents' contributions be reserved 
for primary school maintenance financing; and
(d)
ensure that adequate funds from the annual secondary school budget be 
reserved for secondary schools maintenance.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect  of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
Page  6
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
Subject to subparagraph (c) of this paragraph, the right of the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of any of the UNDP Grant or the UNICEF  Grant shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to any of the UNDP 
Grant Agreements or the UNICEF Grant Letter, as the case may be.
(c)
Subparagraph (b) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has submitted a PEP for the years 1988 through 1990 and the 
corresponding financial plan for the year 1988 with terms and  conditions satisfactory 
to the Association; and
(b)
the Borrower has reorganized BPE by establishing DCS in due form.
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Education 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Education Nationale
B.P. 1990
Bujumbura
Republique du Burundi
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINEDUC
5166 MINEDUC BDI
Page  7
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Edouard Kadigiri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Phase I of                  2,200,000       100%
     primary school
     civil works,
     furniture, equip-
     ment, building
     materials and
     construction
     operating costs
     of DCS relating
     thereto
(2)  Phase II of                 2,200,000       100%
     of primary school
     civil works,
Page  8
     furniture, equip-
     ment, building
     materials and
     construction
     operating costs
     of DCS relating
     thereto
(3)  Phase I of                  5,600,000       100%
     secondary school
     civil works,
     furniture,
     equipment,
     building
     materials and
     construction
     operating costs
     of DCS relating
     thereto
(4)  Phase II of                 4,000,000       100%
     secondary school
     civil works,
     furniture,
     equipment,
     building
     materials and
     construction
     operating costs
     of DCS relating
     thereto
(5)  Furniture,                  2,600,000       100%
     equipment, mate-
     rials, vehicles,
     textbooks and
     operating costs
     not included in
     the primary and
     secondary school
     components
(6)  Technical                   2,600,000       100%
     Assistance
     and training
     not included
     in the primary
     and secondary
     school com-
     ponents
(7)  Education                     150,000       100%
     related studies
(8)  Project
     Administration:
     (a)  operating                150,000       100%
          costs
     (b)  salaries                 150,000       50%
(9)  Higher education            1,100,000       100%
     scholarships for
     the 1987-1988
     academic year
Page  9
(10) Refunding of                  220,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(11) Unallocated                 2,030,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 23,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
 
(b)
under Categories 2 and 4 of paragraph 1 above, unless the Association 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to implement measures to control 
education costs to facilitate the sector's adjustment; (ii) to strengthen  MEN's 
planning, budgeting and cost-control capacity; (iii) to improve the quality and 
efficiency of education at the primary and general secondary  levels; and (iv) to 
improve access to education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Education Costs
 
Helping MEN to defray temporary cost increases relating to the granting of 
higher education scholarships in the academic year 1987-1988.
Part B:
Strengthening of MEN's Capabilities.
 
1.
Strengthening of DPE to implement and monitor the Program and to  prepare 
subsequent sectoral adjustment plans and cost-effectiveness measures, including the 
preparation of PEPs and PIPs and education related studies.
2.
Strengthening and coordination of school administration and planning including: 
(a) familiarization of regional inspectors and primary and secondary school 
headmasters with their responsibilities and provision of  training support; (b) 
granting of fellowships for training abroad; (c)  establishment of regional 
coordinating committees to monitor in-service teacher training; and (d) organization 
within BPE of DCS and of a Project Coordination Unit.
Part C:
Improvement of the Quality and Efficiency of Education.
 
1.
Strengthening of the role of inspectors, teacher trainers and headmasters in 
providing teachers with pedagogical and administrative support.
2.
Training of primary education teachers including: (a) in-service training; (b) 
weekly seminars; (c) three-month upgrading courses; (d) on-the-job monitoring by 
inspectors and headmasters; and (e) supply of teacher guides.
3.
Training of secondary education teachers including: (a) in-service training 
seminars and training sessions; (b) on-the-job monitoring by education specialists; 
(c) supply of teacher guides; and (d) equipment and  supplies for the teaching of 
Page  10
physical sciences.
4.
Improvement of science and technology instruction in the secondary  schools by 
the supply of adequate facilities and equipment.
5.
Strengthening of RPP including the supply of equipment and materials.
 
6.
Granting of fellowships to primary and secondary education specialists for 
training abroad.
Part D:
Access to Education.
 
1.
Strengthening of MEN's school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance 
capacity, through the reorganization of BPE.
2.
Primary school construction and rehabilitation, including: (a)  construction, 
furniture and equipment of rural primary schools; (b) construction, furniture and 
equipment of about six urban primary schools in  the following centers: Gitega, Ngozi, 
Kayanza, Rumonge and Bujumbura (Gasenyi and Kanyosha suburbs); and (c) rehabilitation 
of existing primary schools.
3.
Secondary school  construction  and rehabilitation including: (a) building of 
three lower secondary schools; and (b) renovation of about 10 existing secondary 
schools.
4.
Implementation and monitoring of a school maintenance program.
 
*     *     *
Parts D.2 and D.3 are to be implemented in two phases. The first will include: 
(i) construction of rural primary schools and rehabilitation of primary and secondary 
schools up to an amount corresponding to 50% of the  amount of the credit allocated to 
Categories (1) through (4) of Schedule 1  hereof; and (ii) construction of two 
secondary schools.  The second phase will include the remaining construction and 
rehabilitation work both for primary and secondary schools.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
Reduction in real terms of the budgetary cost per student by 9.5% at the primary 
level, 7% at the general secondary level, 7.5% at the technical secondary level and 
10% at the higher level in relation to the 1986-1987 costs.
2.
Restructuring of the education budget by changing the distribution of actual 
public expenditures, as follows: (a) increase in primary education  from 45% to 50%; 
(b) reduction in secondary education from 30% to 28%; and (c) reduction in higher 
education from 22% to 20%.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
Page  11
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's territory may be  granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the  provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1  through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works, furniture, building materials, equipment, vehicles and textbooks 
which could not be grouped in bid packages of more than the  equivalent of $50,000 may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with the Borrower's applicable procedures and paragraph 3.3 of 
the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $600,000.
2.
Civil work contracts for primary schools (with exclusion of the building 
materials and equipment relating thereto) may be procured under force accounts, in 
accordance with paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines, to local  communities acting under 
the supervision of DCS.
3.
Civil works contracts for primary schools, in an amount not to exceed  the 
equivalent of $2,500,000 and of not less than $2,000,000, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with the Borrower's procedures and  paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that works for which no  substantially responsive bids have been 
received or there is a lack of effective competition may be carried out by force 
accounts in accordance with paragraph 2 above.
4.
Civil works contracts for secondary schools (with the exclusion of the building 
materials and equipment relating thereto) may be procured to DCS under force accounts, 
in accordance with paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines, and DCS may subcontract them up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed  $800,000 on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in  accordance with the Borrower's procedures and paragraph 3.3 of 
the Guidelines.
5.
Civil works contracts for secondary schools in an amount not to exceed  the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 and of not less than $4,000,000 shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with the Borrower's procedures and  paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that works for which no substantially responsive bids have been 
received or there is a lack of effective competition may be carried out by force 
accounts, in accordance with paragraph 4 above.
6.
Items which cannot be grouped, or groups of items, estimated to cost less than 
the equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the  basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with paragraph  3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more and to each contract for furniture, building materials, 
equipment, vehicles and textbooks estimated to cost the  equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and  4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. Where payments for such  contract are to be made out of the Special  
Page  12
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 
(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out  
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized  withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of  expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants and Experts
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
and experts shall be selected in  accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association  on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (9) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to  the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw  from the Credit Account and 
Page  13
deposit into the Special Account such amounts  as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not  exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for  eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of  this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or  at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association  when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, 
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining  
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii)  was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this  Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit 
Account.
