Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3808-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 43.7 MILLION
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
COMMAND WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 4, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALFNTS
Currency Unit =  Pakistan (Rs)
US$1.00       =  Rs 13.5
Rs 1.00       =  US$0.074
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ac          -        Acre
ac ft       -        Acre feet
ADP         -        Annual Development Program
ECNEC       -        Executivie Committee of the National
Economic Council
GOP         -        Government of Pakistan
ICB         -        Internat:ional Competitive Bidding
IDA         -       International Development Association
ISR         -        Irrigation System Rehabilitation
LCB         -        Local Competitive Bidding
I4AF        -        Million Acre Feet
MWP         -        Ministry of Water and Power
NWFP        -        North West Frontier Province
OFWM        -        On-Farm Water Management
O&M         -        Operation and Maintenance
PC-l        -        Planning Commission Proforma No. 1
PID         -        Provincial Irrigation & Power Department
SCARP       -        Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
UNDP        -        United Nations Development Program
USAID       -        US Agency for International Development
WAPDA       -        Water and Power Development Authority
WUA         -        Water Users' Association



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
COMMAND WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                  SDR 43.7 million
(US$46.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Relending Terms:         From Government of Pakistan (GOP) to four Provinces
on standard IDA terms
Proiect
Description:           The project would demonstrate the high return to be
obtained from a comprehensive approach to
irrigated agriculture by providing complementary
investments in the physical and institutional
aspects of water management in seven sub-project
areas in the four provinces of Pakistan. To this
end, it would develop water management techniques
replicable in other areas of the country; build
within the relevant provincial agencies a
capability for planning, implementing, operating,
and maintaining integrated, efficient programs of
irrigated agriculture; and strengthen farmer
participation in water user associations.
Financing would be provided for canal rehabilita-
tion and remodelling, drainage, on-farm water
management, project management, training, and
technical assistance. Some 50,000 farm-families
on about 500,000 ac of irrigated land would
benefit directly from improved water resources and
management, as well as deliveries of other
agricultural inputs and services. There are no
special technical risks, but achievement of
project goals would depend on the success of the
management organization in strengthening coordina-
tion and promoting timely execution of all project
components.  While innovative, the management
arrangements proposed have been carefully designed
to maximize chances of success.
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Item                            LocaIl         Foreign          Total
Canal Remodelling                              25.6           0.3             25.9
Drainage                                        9.0            0.2             9.2
On-Farm Water Management                       19.5            0.1            19.6
Project Management                              5.0            3.6              8.6
Base Cost                                  59.1            4.2             63.3
Physical Contingencies                          0.4           0.1              0.5
Price Contingencies                            17.6           0.5             18.1
Total Project Cost                         77.1            4.8             81.9
Less: Taxes and Duties                       1.2            -               1.2
Total Net Project Cost                         75.9           4.8             80.7
Financing Plan:                                         (US$ millions)
Local         Foreign          Total
Government                                     9.3            -               9.3
Farmers                                        1.1            -               1.1
IDA                                          45.1            1.4             46.5
USAID                                         21.6           3.4             25.0
Total               77.1           4.8             81.9
Estimated                                              (US$ millions)
Disbursements:  IDA FY            FY85      FY86       FY87    FY88    FY89  FY90
Annual           1.4        5.5       8.1    11.5    14.5   5.5
Cumulative      1.4         6.9      15.0    26.5    41.0  46.5
Rate of Return:    24%
Appraisal Report: No. 4971-IN, dated April 30, 1984.
Map:  IBRD 17931



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN FOR A COMMAND WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for SDR 43.7 million (US$46.5 million equivalent) to
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on standard IDA terms to help finance
a Command Water Management Project. The United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) is expected to participate in the
financing of the project by providing a grant of about US$25.0 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments" (No. 4906-PAK, dated February 24, 1984) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 13, 1984.
3.      Economic developments during FY83 were generally favorable.  GDP
grew by 5.8%, with value added in agriculture rising by 4.8% and in
industry by 8.3%. Continued stagnation in (fixed) investment, which
declined slightly from 13.6% of GNP in FY82 to 13.4% of GNP in FY83, was
among the few unfavorable events. National savings, on the other hand,
rose sharply from 10.9% to an estimated 14.1% of GNP. The declining trend
in the rate of inflation continued; as measured by the consumer price
index, the rate of inflation slowed from 11.5% in FY82 to 5.2% in FY83.
4.      There was a dramatic turnaround in the balance of payments in
FY83. The current account deficit, at US$554 million (1.8% of GNP), was
less than half the size of deficits in recent years. This outcome
reflected three main factors: a resumption in the growth of exports fol-
lowing a substantial decline in FY82; a slight decline in the value of
imports; and buoyant remittances from migrant workers. Exports grew by
13%, nearly regaining their FY81 level. The most striking feature of the
export performance was the growth of non-traditional exports, which
increased by over a third. The drop in imports reflected, inter alia,
higher domestic production of oil and import-substitution in some key
commodities. The incipient recovery in world trade and delinking of the
exchange rate from the U.S. dollar in January 1982, with its subsequent
depreciation, contributed significantly to the improved balance of pay-
ments picture. Given the favorable outcome on the current account, normal
levels of net inflows of long-term capital, and net IMF purchases,
Pakistan's reserves more than doubled. At the end of FY83, gross official
reserves stood at US$1,911 million, the equivalent of 3.5 months' of
imports of goods and non-factor services.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3759-PAK (Integrated Hill Farming Development
Project), dated March 26, 1984.



-2-
5.      Notable progress was made in many areas during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan Period (FY79-83). Real growth rates in national output (6.3%),
agriculture (4.4%), industry (9.1%) and exports (9.2%), though below Plan
targets, were all substantially above the rates achieved during 1970-78
and very respectable compared to the performance of other LDCs over the
same period. This growth - coupled with increased inflows of migrant
remittances - benefited large segments cf the urban and rural population.
The output of all major crops reached record levels and self-sufficiency
in wheat and sugar was achieved.  Encouraged by improved government
policies, private investment in manufacturing expanded by 8% p.a. in real
terms; this expansion was more than offset by the declining public invest-
ment in the sector, however. The balance of p2ayments performance was
quite satisfactory: the current account deficit declined significantly
relative to GDP. Government fiscal and credil: policies reduced budget
deficits and monetary expansion and inflationary pressures gradually
subsided. This progress was made despite a number of unforeseen events:
(a) world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the external terms of trade
after 1979; (c) the Afghan crisis, which necessitated increased outlays
for defense and refugee assistance; and (d) a continued decline in real
net aid flows.
6.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural, industrial and fiscal and credit policies. In
agriculture, particular attention has been given to improving farmer
incentives and input supplies.  Support prices for all major crops have
been raised so that they are now closer to world prices.  At the same
time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy. An
Agricultural Prices Commission has been ;set up to make recommendations on
appropriate changes in crop supporlt and input prices on a consistent and
timely basis.
7.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new
agricultural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on
irrigated agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency
of the water delivery system through the rehabilitation of canals and
better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer, and to expand the
role of the private sector. Other programs--in pesticides, seeds,
agricultural credit, extension, research and farm power--have also been
strengthened. These initiatives are still at an early stage and a
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the farm level is
yet to take place.
8.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth haLve been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been
denationalized; constitutional safeguards have been provided to private



-3-
industry against further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas
open to the private sector have been widened. A wide range of fiscal
incentives have been granted to encourage private investment and exports.
These have been supplemented by a liberalization of imports which has
improved the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure
has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in
private sector confidence and stimulated private investment, mainly in
small and medium-scale projects.
v          9.       At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures have helped to increase production and capacity utilization
substantially in the public sector.
10.     Fiscal performance improved significantly over the Fifth Plan
period. The overall budget deficit and government borrowing from the
banking system, which stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP in the first year of
the Plan, fell to 6.4% and 1.7%, respectively, by the final year. Reduced
levels of government borrowing from banks, together with overall credit
restraint, led to lower rates of growth of the money supply and lessened
inflationary pressures; prices rose by 5% in the final year of the Plan as
compared with 8% in the first year. The improvement in fiscal performance
was, however, largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than
better revenue performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on
economic and social services barely kept pace with population growth and
development expenditures declined relatively to GDP. At the same time,
government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of GNP,
amounted to only 1.6% in the last year of the Plan. Greater resource
mobilization by the public sector will be critical for the implementation
of the Sixth Plan.
11.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essen-
tially structural and long term in nature. Notwithstanding these
improvements, further wide-ranging measures to address the main issues
are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently improved economic
performance over the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (FY84-88). These issues
include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture;
the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
restrain the growth of energy demand and improve the exploitation of



-4-
domestic energy resources; the factors lying behind continued rapid growth
in population; and the problems of resource mobilization.
12.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly
for roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Except in the important case of wyheat, agricultural growth since the
mid-1970s has been the product of acreage expansion with little improve-
ment in yields. Because of the high cost of extending the irrigation
system, a switch to more intensive agriculture is essential. The achieve-
ment of higher productivity will require improved agricultural services
and increased efficiency of the irrigation system as well as continued
attention to producer incentives. Toward the latter part of the Fifth
Plan, some progress was made in reorienting expenditures towards projects
designed to rehabilitate and improve the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system, increase the efficiency of water use, improve quality
of research and extension, and increase the supply of complementary
agricultural inputs. These efforts will need to be accelerated during the
Sixth Plan period. To encourage greater agricultural yields, the
Government must also continue to rationalize prices of agricultural out-
puts and inputs. In recent years, pricing decisions have been taken in a
more systematic and timely fashion based on recommendations by the newly
formed Agricultural Prices Commission; procurement prices have been
brought more nearly in line with international prices and subsidies for
fertilizers and pesticides substantially reduced. These efforts, too,
will need to be continued during the Sixth Plan period.
13.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. After a period of
stagnation during the period 1970--77, manufacturing growth has again
accelerated. To provide a solid economic basis for continued rapid
growth, incentives for greater private and public manufacturing enterprise
efficiency will have to be implemented. Despite some success in reviving
the private sector and improving the performance of public enterprises,
much remains to be done to bring about a major restructuring of industry
and place it on a competitive basis. The efficient long-term development
of the industrial sector will require both a relaxation of government
controls and rationalization of industrial incentives. To encourage
industrial growth more in line with Pakistan's comparative advantage, the
process of import liberalization initiated over the past few years must be
continued. In addition, the differential rateas of protection given to
various domestic products need to be substantially narrowed. To provide
further encouragement for private investment as well as to attract risk
capital, the number of administrative regulations must be reduced. In
addition, the scope of price controls should be substantially narrowed,
especially the use of cost-plus pricing which discourages improvements in
efficiency and energy conservation. Further strong measures to increase
efficiency and self-financing capacity in the public sector are also
essential. The implementation of the Public Enterprises Signaling System
in FY84--which has set performance objectives for individual enterprises



-5-
and will provide bonus incentives for managers--should contribute toward
the achievement of these objectives.
14.     Energy shortages have become a significant constraint to rapid
economic growth in Pakistan. Power and gas shortages are common and the
country imports 90% of its petroleum needs costing over 26% of total
imports. Energy investments to improve the energy situation total over
33% of public investment in the Sixth Five Year Plan. The Government's
efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjusting domestic oil
prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy forms and the
exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met with some
success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by the
development of hydroelectricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector
has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign
private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geologi-
cal and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as
the development of existing fields has been slow and Pakistan's con-
siderable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be realized. The
Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such
matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order to
accelerate progress.
15.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid economic growth, it is
also necessary to contain the rapid growth in population, currently run-
ning at about 2.8% p.a. Family planning programs have so far had little
effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic environment
of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid population
growth places severe burdens on government resources simply to maintain
education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates
can be much reduced. The Government has recently shown more awareness of
this problem.
16.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and
external resource constraints. National savings averaged only 12% of GNP
over the Fifth Plan Period. To improve the budget and the balance of
payments, a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings
levels in the economy, particularly in public savings. Given the size of
the public sector's domestic resource requirements, a comprehensive
strategy that utilizes all available instruments, including taxation
policy, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of open and implicit
subsidies and improved self-financing of investment by public enterprises,
will be needed.
17.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan, initiated on July 1, 1983, represents a
pragmatic overall strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development.
The Plan puts heavy stress upon improvements in economic policies as well



-6-
as on a public expenditure program. Recognizing the importance of a
dynamic private sector for rapid economic growth and the limitations on
public sector resources, it calls for reduced regulations on the private
sector, increased emphasis on market incentives for greater production and
efficiency and for increased participation in sectors where the Government
has previously played a large role. The size and composition of the
public sector development program is appropriate.  While public develop-
ment expenditures would expand only as rapidly as gross domestic product,
this is a realistic target given projected available resources and the
demands for improved public services. To achieve such an expansion - a
reversal of the declining trend experienced under the Fifth Plan - and to
finance an increasing share from domestic resources will require a major
mobilization effort. The largest increases in sectoral allocations have
gone to energy, agriculture and irrigation, and the social sectors. The
shift in the composition of the public sector development program is
justified because of the threat to future growth posed by energy
shortages, the need to increase agricultural vields by improvements in
agricultural and irrigation/drainage services, and the past neglect of the
social sectors.
18.     The recent policy initiatives, which are to be continued during
the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial
borrowing and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing. At the end of calen-
dar 1982, Pakistan's external public debi: (excluding the undisbursed
pipeline) stood at US$9.2 billion, of which US$4.8 billion was owed to
bilateral members of the Pakistan Consort:ium, US$1.3 billion to OPEC and
US$1.8 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral
and private lenders. In 1982, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's exter-
nal public indebtedness was 15.2% and in exter:aal debt service was 12.1%.
According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports
of goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 13.7%
(including IMF charges) in FY82, is likely to remain below 15% during the
1980s, even assuming substantial commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
19.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan
(exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions the!reof which were disbursed
in the former East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.9 billion.
During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in almost all sectors of the economy. This has included its
involvement with other donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program
of works to develop the water resources of the Indus Basin,  Approximately
30% of total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture
and irrigation; 26% for industry including import program credits; 21% for
transport, telecommunications and public utility services; 14% for energy
including power, gas pipelines and petroleum; 4% for social programs in
education, population and urban development; and 5% for a SAL.



-7-
20.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are
responsible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth;
and thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban
development.
21.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy.  Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural support-
ing services; improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing. An important
purpose of this lending is to assist the Government's program to increase
the productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus Basin
through quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a
UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was executing agency.
22.     In industry, lending through DFCs and other financial inter-
mediaries which has been mainly for the private sector totals US$438.5
million. This includes eleven Loans/Credits for the Pakistan Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC), two Credits for the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), one Credit for the National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), a Credit for Small Scale
Industries through five commercial banks, and a Loan/Credit for industrial
investment through five participating financial institutions including two
commercial banks. Direct lending for industry has also included assis-
tance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan.
As of September 30, 1983, IFC had made investments in 16 Pakistan
enterprises for a total of US$182.0 million, of which US$170.4 million was
by way of loans and US$11.6 million by equity participations (these are
shown in Annex II). About US$55.7 million of these investments remained
outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three in the field
of pulp and paper products, two each in textiles, food and food
processing, and petrochemicals, and one each in cement, steel,
fertilizers, plastics, and wood processing. IFC is also a shareholder in
PICIC.
23.     The Bank has had a long standing involvement in the energy sector.
In power, the Bank Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply
Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
with four and three projects respectively; the sector has also been
assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development Program of
Mangla and Tarbela Dams. In petroleum, the two Sui gas transmission
companies have been assisted with five projects, while the Bank group is
financing two petroleum projects, for production and exploration, and is
playing an important role in strengthening the public Oil and Gas
Development Corporation. An IDA credit to support a Coal Exploration
Project was recently approved. These efforts are assisting in the effi-



-8-
cient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy resources
and in establishing a policy and institutional framework for increased
private investment in the sector. In addition, IFC has made three loans
in the petroleum sector.
24.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficienc-y of operations and
strengthening the institutions responsible for these services, especially
the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph
Department, and federal and provincial highway agencies. IDA has financed
four projects in the urban and water supply sector, three of which are
currently being implemented. Five credits for education, totaling US$62.5
million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher
technical and agricultural education, middle--level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. A first population project
was recently approved.
25.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported
Pakistan's development through program assistance. A first structural
adjustment lending operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors
in June 1982. This SAL program consists of a number of significant
reforms in government development planning and in policies and programs in
the agriculture, energy and industrial sectors.
26.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA
Credits as of September 30, 1983. Credit and loan disbursements have been
generally satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due
to protracted government procedures for project approval, which are being
addressed, and to slowness in the procurement of goods and services.
Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration
to the Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the
case of some projects.
27.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are cur-
rently under appraisal or being prepared in P'akistan. These include
projects for power transmission and generation, direct and indirect
industrial investments, oil and gas development, irrigation, agriculture
and education. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints
for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance
agricultural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign
exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases
is justified.
28.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the
basis for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government
of Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.



-9-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
29.     Pakistan has a total land area of 197 million ac, of which 40%, or
about 78 million ac, is suitable for crop, range, and forest production.
Most of the cultivable land is located in the Indus plain where the annual
precipitation is generally less than 8 inches, and the evaporation exceeds
5 ft., making irrigation a necessity for agricultural production. About
40 million ac is commanded for irrigation, where about 90% of the nation's
total agricultural production is generated.
30.     Despite the gradually declining relative importance of the
agricultural sector in Pakistan's economy, it remains the: (a) largest
commodity-producing sector; (b) principal source of income for a majority
of the country's population (almost 60% of the labor force); (c) most
important source of exports (about 42% in FY82); (d) principal supplier of
raw materials for industry; and (e) primary market for the output of the
non-agricultural sectors.
Indus Irrigation System
31.     The single most important infrastructural work relating to
agricultural production in Pakistan is the Indus Irrigation System (34.5
million ac), which is the largest contiguous irrigation system in the
world. The Indus system encompasses the Indus River and its tributaries,
three major storage reservoirs, 19 barrages/headworks, 12 link canals, and
43 canal commands covering about 90,000 chaks.l/ The total length of the
canal system is about 39,000 miles with watercourses2/, channels, and
field ditches running another 1.0 million miles. Approximately 100 mil-
lion acre feet (MAE) of surface irrigation supplies are diverted annually
into this canal system. In addition, approximately 12,500 public
tubewells and 100,000 private tubewells pump annually an additional 35 MAF
of irrigation groundwater.
32.     Conveyance of water supplies in excess of design capacity has
placed great stress on the system. This situation, coupled with deferred
maintenance, has resulted in frequent canal bank breaches and interruption
in service. Overall system irrigation delivery efficiencies are extremely
low. Various studies by Pakistan's Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA) indicate irrigation efficiencies in the chaks average between 40%
and 50%.  In addition, about 25% of the diverted surface supply is lost
1/ Lowest order command covering, on average, about 400 ac and 35
farms.
2! Watercourse is the communal irrigation delivery facility within each
chak.



-10-
through deep percolation and evaporation prior to reaching the chaks.
Inadequate or non-existent surface and subsuri-ace drainage has resulted in
serious surface flooding, a high groundwater I-able, and associated
problems of waterlogging and salinity.l/ In addition, there have been
continuous technical, financial, and operational problems associated with
the public tubewells (see paras. 5,9-67).
33.     The only completed irrigation project in Pakistan, the Flood
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 466-PAK; OED Report No. 2238 dated
October 13, 1978), was a disaster relief project with minimal relevance to
the proposed project. However, the OED report did note that the fulfill-
ment by the Punjab and Sind Irrigation and Road Departments of their
responsibility for carrying out the civil works restoration by the target
date represented a remarkable achievement.
Recent Agricultural Performance and Future Prospects
34.     During the period FY77-83, Pakistan's annual agricultural growth
rate exceeded 4%, a marked increase over the 1.7% for the FY71-76 period.
This doubling of the agricultural sector growth rate can be attributed
partly to favorable weather, but mainly to farmer response to changes in
the GOP's policies during the Fifth Five-Year Plan period (FY78-83).
These policies included efforts to improve farm level incentives through
price adjustments, to reduce subsidies, to encourage private sector
investment in areas such as input distribution, to increase funding for
agricultural extension and research services, to improve water management
at the farm level, and to rehabilitate the irrigation system.
35.     Even with the recent significant increase in agricultural
production, the average yields for major field crops in Pakistan remain
well below that of similar developing countries; and there remain ample
opportunity and potential to further improve Pakistan's agricultural
production. The major factors which would contribute to increased
agricultural growth include: (a) timely and assured irrigation water
supplies; (b) improved delivery and availability of quality seeds,
fertilizer, insecticides, extension services, agricultural credit, and
machinery; (c) rural education; and (d) improved rural infrastructure -
particularly roads, rural electrification, and communications.
36.     Improved production in irrigated agriculture will require in
particular a high degree of coordination and/or integration of agencies
supplying water and non-water inputs and services. Currently, the major
responsibility for supplying these inputs and services at the provincial
1/ The Indus Basin Salinity Survey, WAPDA, 1981 indicated that 22% of the
Indus Basin (about 9.0 million ac) has a groundwater table within
6 ft. of the surface and 42% (about: 17.0 M ac) within 10 ft.



-11-
and field levels is divided mainly among the Provincial Irrigation and
Power Departments (PIDs), the On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) and
Agricultural Extension directorates of the Provincial Agriculture
Departments, the Agricultural Development Bank, and the private sector.
While efforts have been made to strengthen and improve coordination among
these agencies, further work is needed to ensure timely and reliable
availability of agricultural inputs and services.  In addition, greater
coordination is needed within the PIDs between those responsible for the
public tubewells and for the surface irrigation system.
37.     Until recently, the farmers did not have an organization through
which their views could be effectively aired. However, under the On-Farm
Water Management Project (Credit 1163-PAK) formal Water Users Associations
(WUAs) have been started which could serve as the vehicle for improved
farmer participation in the planning, construction, and operation and
maintenance of irrigation facilities, as well as to facilitate distribu-
tion of required inputs and services (see para. 53).
Government Policy and Bank Strategy
38.     The GOP recognizes that the massive investments in its irrigation
infrastructure in the sixties and seventies will be wasted if they are
not properly maintained and if they are not accompanied by correct price
incentives and improved institutions and services. Hence the Government's
current investment priorities in agriculture emphasize a reorientation of
the investment program in favor of short-gestation projects balanced with
critical longer-term expenditures, notably in drainage; a widening of the
role of the private sector; and continuation of appropriate input and
output pricing policies.
39.     Most of the agricultural policy reforms initiated in recent years
grew out of a strengthened dialogue with the Bank and were supported by
Bank Group assistance. Each of the irrigation projects has incorporated
provisions to improve Operations and Maintenance (O&M) and cost recovery
(see paras. 58-66), while the Fertilizer Imports Credit (Credit 1066-PAK
fully disbursed) and SAL (Loan 2166/Credit 1255-PAK fully disbursed) dealt
in addition with agricultural pricing and input subsidies. Procurement
prices for Pakistan's major crops - wheat, cotton, and rice - are at or
near parity with world market prices, and current output-input price
ratios appear to provide adequate incentives to farmers. All subsidies on
pesticides were eliminated by 1983, and the Government has regularly
reduced the fertilizer subsidy in accordance with its commitment under the
Fertilizer Imports Credit to phase out the subsidy by mid-1985. While
calculation of the actual subsidy is a complex matter since Pakistan
itself produces fertilizer at widely varying costs, it would appear that
further increases in fertilizer prices will be required during the coming
year. Thus while considerable progress has been made, the challenge in
coming years will be to formulate input and output pricing policies which
reflect international price trends and at the same time provide adequate



-12-
producer incentives to promote continued increases in agricultural
productivity. The Bank's sector dialogue with the GOP is focussed on
these issues with a view toward support for further policy reforms with a
possible sector lending activity at an appropriate time. Other sectoral
issues which will be addressed in this context are inter alia, the balance
and relation between irrigation and complementary activities such as
extension and research; investment priorities in irrigation; institutional
arrangements including federal/provincial relationships, and the need for
further improvements in irrigation O&M iand cost recovery.
40.     The proposed project would address directly the problem of under-
utilized assets. By simultaneously providing complementary investments in
the physical and institutional aspects of water management for an entire
canal command area, it would demonstrate the high returns to be obtained
from a comprehensive approach to water management and agricultural
production. At the same time, it would provide an opportunity to re-
emphasize the need for further progress in O&M and cost recovery. The
other sectoral issues are being addressed in the context of other lending
operations, as well as through an active sector dialogue with the
Government.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.     The Government has included a Command Water Management Project in
its Sixth Five-Year Plan.  This project would incorporate the major
policy, institutional, and technical recommendations of the Revised Action
Program for Irrigated Agriculture, published in 1979 and based on a four-
year Indus Basin Planning Study funded by the UNDP with the Bank as
Executing Agency. The proposed project was prepared by WAPDA with UNDP
financing and appraised in October 1983. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. April 9 to 18, 1984; the Pakistan delegation was led by
Major General A. M. Rauf, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Water and
Power (MWP). A report entitled "Pakistan: Staff Appraisal Report -
Command Water Management Project" (Report No., 4971-PAK, dated April 30,
1984) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A sup-
plementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Objectives
42.     The project objectives would be to (a) increase agricultural
production through improved water management coordinated with the more
efficient supply of agricultural services and non-water inputs;
(b) develop water management techniques repl.icable in other areas of
country; (c) build within the relevant proviLncial agencies a capability
for planning, implementing, operating, and maintaining integrated and
efficient programs of irrigated agriculture; and (d) strengthen farmer
participation in water user associations to improve their management of
water and other resources, and enable them to take a greater interest in
their own affairs.



-13-
43.      The project would draw upon the technical and institutional
experience under ongoing irrigation and drainage projects including the
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation (ISR - Credit 1239-PAK), Fourth Drainage
(Credit 1375-PAZR) and On-Farm Water Management (Credit 1163-PAZ) Projects.
However, this project would differ from the earlier ones in that it would
undertake a number of related activities at one time in selected repre-
sentative sub-project areas in each province in order to demonstrate the
benefits to be achieved by addressing the weaknesses throughout the
irrigation system in a comprehensive fashion at one time.
Project Area Characteristics
44,      The project would cover an irrigated area of about 290,000 ac in
Punjab, 165,000 ac in Sind, 45,000 ac in North West Frontier (NWFP), and
12,000 ac in Baluchistan. The GOP determined the overall size of the
project and allocated the resources to reflect (a) the funding formula for
the Provincial Annual Development Programs and (b) the irrigated area
within each province.  In selecting the sub-project areas, the provincial
officials chose areas which included an entire irrigation command, were
representative of a wide range of physical and agroclimatic conditions,
a-nd whose land ownership and tenancy arrangements were comparable to the
province as a whole.  There are about 50,000 farm units in the total
project area, of which about 66% are less than 12.5 ac (the average farm
unit in Pakistan), 25% range from 12.5 to 25 ac, and 9% are greater than
25 ac.  While cropping intensities are generally quite high in the project
area as compared to elsewhere in Pakistan, crop yields are low in com-
parison to other countries.
45.      Bulk distribution of fertilizer, pesticides, and seeds is done by
the Government. However, in 1980 the private sector began retail sales
of fertilizer, and the responsibility for distribution of pesticides was
transferred from the extension service to the private sector.
Agricultural credit is available from the Agricultural Development Bank,
the Federal and Provincial Banks for Cooperatives, and commercial banks.
The extension service in a number of districts in the Punjab and Sind
sub-project areas has been strengthened on a pilot basis (Credit 813-PAR
and Credit 922-PAK).  Nevertheless, surveys conducted in connection with
preparation of the proposed project indicate that farmers received inade-
quate assistance from the agricultural extension service and small farmers
have difficulty obtaining credit, fertilizer, and pesticides; and the use
of improved seed varieties is low. While the proposed project would
emphasize water management, it would also seek to improve the coordination
of deliveries of water with other non-water agricultural inputs and
increase their availability to farmers.



-14-
Project Description
46.     The proposed five-year project (1Y85-89) would include canal
remodelling, drainage, on-farm water management, project management
rehabilitation and training, and technical assistance in seven sub-
projects of which four would be in Punjab and one each in the other three
provinces.
47.     Canal Rehabilitation and RemodelLinR.  Canal rehabilitation
provided under the project would be carri.ed out in all seven subprojects
and would be modelled after the ISR Project. This rehabilitation would be
limited to earthwork and repair and replacement of hydraulic structures.
Canal remodelling under the project would involve: (a) lining of selected
minor and distributary canals; (b) remodelling of moghas (outlets to water
courses); and (c) improvements to canal s3tructures and lift pump
facilities.  About 188 miles of minor and smaller distributary canals
would be lined to reduce excessive seepage losses and save annually about
50,000 ac ft of water. Remodelling of about 1,300 moghas would improve
water distribution and ensure equitable iwater deliveries to chaks, espe-
cially to those in the lower reaches.  Gating of outlets would be con-
sidered in areas where continuous flows zause damage to crops, or where
water management considerations so dictate.
48.     Drainage.  The project would install about 80 automated public
drainage tubewells in two of the Punjab sub-projects to drain a total
saline area of about 46,000 ac. These tubewells would be connected to the
electrical power network and about 55 miles of lined channels would be
constructed to convey drainage effluent to the! nearest surface drain
outlet. The surface drainage system would be improved in four sub-
projects in order to drain excess storm rain-water in a timely manner, and
dispose of effluent from the sub--surface drainage system for the two
sub-projects where tubevells were installed.
49.     On-Farm Water Management.  The project would provide technical
staff to strengthen the capability of the provincial Departments of
Agriculture On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) Directorate and Extension
Service to assist farmers in the execution of: watercourse renovation;
farm irrigation and surface drainage ditches, precision land-levelling;
and demonstration plots. Materials would be provided to renovate about
1,050 watercourses, primarily with cement bri,zk lining.
Pro ject Management
50.     The provincial governments, through line agencies in the
Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture, would be responsible for
implementation and operation of the sub-projects in their jurisdiction.
In addition, the federal MWP would coordinate the overall project. All
assets constructed or improved undLer the project would be owned by the
provinces. Since a major constraint to increased agricultural production



-15-
in Pakistan has been the fragmented institutional arrangements among the
provincial operating agencies (see para. 36), the project would emphasize
improved management and coordination at the provincial and sub-project
level. A Provincial Policy Committee, chaired by the Additional Chief
Secretary, Planning and Development, would be established in each
province. Each Committee would formulate policy, coordinate participating
agency inputs at the provincial level, review and approve the sub-project
work plans, program provincial resources in accordance with the work
plans, and review progress in meeting targets and agreements and take
action as necessary.  By March 31 each year, each province would submit
annual work plans for its sub-projects for the following year to IDA for
comment (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreements).
51.     A management office, headed by a sub-project manager, would be
established at each sub-project in Sind, Baluchistan, and NWFP. In
Punjab, a single project management office headed by a senior official in
the Department of Agriculture in Lahore would manage the four sub-
projects. In all the provinces, the sub-project managers would be respon-
sible to the Provincial Policy Committee and report to its chairman. The
sub-project management offices would plan, schedule, and monitor the
various agency programs required to transform the policy goals into quan-
tifiable achievements. Their functions would include preparation of work
plans, progress reports, and reimbursement applications, and development
of training programs. In addition, the management office would have
operational responsibility for the water management component of the
project and monitoring and evaluation.
52.     Each sub-project would also have a sub-proiect program coordinat-
ing committee, chaired by the sub-project manager, whose membership would
include representatives of the provincial Irrigation and Agriculture
Departments, suppliers of non-water inputs and credit, and representatives
of the water users' associations. The sub-project manager would work
through this Committee and with the extension service to ensure timely
delivery of the various commodities and services to the farmers.
Establishment of the Provincial Proiect Policy Committees and the sub-
project management offices in each of the provinces would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreements and
Section 6.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.     As a condition for receiving project assistance for OFWM, all the
farmers served by a given outlet command would be required to establish a
Water Users' Association (WUA). Similar WUAs established under the OFWM
Project (Credit 1163-PAK) have had considerable success in promoting
cooperation during the development phase of the project. Under the
proposed project the WUAs would again serve as the vehicle to administer
the farmer contribution of labor and cash to the OFWM activities (see
para. 68). In addition, the WUAs would serve as the channel by which the
farmers would participate in decision making on civil works development.
The WUAs would be consulted prior to and during the remodelling of dis-



-16-
tributaries and minors (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreements).
In addition, the WUAs would serve as the primary contact through which
extension workers would provide information on irrigation and other
production requirements. An effort would also be made to organize the
WUAs to avail themselves of credit and other non-water inputs on a group
basis to attract suppliers; and ultimately to market their produce as a
group.
54.     The federal MWP would consolidate and/or coordinate ICB
procurement, employment of experts, submission of disbursement
applications, and progress reports. It would also provide and inter-
provincial coordination, and prepare the fulL project monitoring and
evaluation program (see para. 57). Assistance would be provided to the
Ministry under the project to permit it to carry out these added
responsibilities.
Training and Technical Assistance
55.     Given the innovative nature of the project and its emphasis on
improved management, training and technical assistance would be given
particular attention. Training would feature three related activities:
(a) three weeks pre-project training in Islamabad for key administrative
staff from MWP and the sub-project offices to be conducted by expatriate
consultants and selected senior officials; (b) one week project orienta-
tion workshops in each of the sub-project management offices for officials
of participating agencies to be conducted by the sub-project managers
assisted by consultants and government officials; and (c) six weeks'
training in irrigation water management for all agricultural extension
workers in the sub-project areas at the OFWM Institute in Lahore. In
addition, in-service training would be scheduled throughout the project
period, and specialized training would be given to the WUA officials.
56.     A total of about 250 man/months of expatriate specialists in such
fields as water management and agronomy would be financed under the
project. In addition, the project would provide about 875 man/months of
local supervisory personnel plus supporting staff. Mostly engineers and
accountants, these locally hired consultants would assist the sub-project
managers in execution of the civil works, submission of reimbursement
claims, and preparation of progress reports.
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.     Two types of monitoring would be conducted under the project:
(a) monitoring of physical and financial investments including civil
works, procurement, staff recruitment, and agricultural programs; and
(b) measurement of the quality and quantity of services and production.
The latter form of monitoring would be designed in conjunction with local
institutions such as the Punjab Economic Research Institute and with
assistance from the social scientists on the expatriate technical assis-



-17-
tance team. The federal MWP, in cooperation with provincial officials and
with the assistance of expatriate experts, would prepare an overall
monitoring and evaluation program for the project and submit it to IDA for
comment by March 31, 1985. Eighteen months after commencement of the
project, an intermediate overall project evaluation would be carried out
by an independent institution acceptable to IDA (Section 3.08 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Operations and Maintenance
58.     Years of improper use and inadequate O&M funding have caused
serious deterioration of Pakistan's entire irrigation and drainage system.
An important component of this problem has been the rising O&M require-
ments associated with the operation of some 12,500 public tubewells which
now account for abcut 45% of total irrigation and drainage O&M costs.
59.     In recent years the Bank has focussed on O&M as a major issue in
its dialogue with Pakistan. As a result of efforts undertaken in connec-
tion with Bank Group assistance, O&M funding for the surface irrigation
system (including surface drainage and flood control works) has improved
significantly in the last few years. Since O&M is largely a provincial
responsibility, provisions on increased funding levels have been embodied
in agreements with both the federal and provincial Governments. Under the
ISR Project (Credit No. 1239-PAX signed June 3, 1982) each of the provin-
ces agreed to an annual increase in funds available for O&M for canal,
surface drainage, and flood protection bunds which would exceed the
expected rate of annual cost increase; and each province agreed to review
the proposed levels annually with IDA by March 1. At that time an under-
standing was also reached on the estimated levels to be achieved by
FY84/85, although it was recognized that the amounts might need to be
revised. These provisions were repeated in connection with the SAL (Loan
2166/Credit 1255 signed June 23, 1982).
60.     The provinces have complied with these provisions and O&M alloca-
tions today generally meet or exceed the requirements under the ISR
Project. During negotiation of the proposed Credit, a working draft of a
report entitled "Funding Requirements for Adequate System Operation and
Maintenance - Pakistan" prepared by USAID consultants under the ISR
Project (cofinanced by USAID) was made available to the Government and
IDA. While this report suggested that some revision in the O&M levels
might be required, in view of the preliminary nature of the report and
the lack of time for the appropriate officials to review it, it was not
possible to incorporate any of the findings in the agreements. However,
an understanding was reached to the effect that the GOP would submit its
comments on the report to IDA for follow-up discussions by June 30, 1984.
In addition, it was agreed that the date by which the provinces would
submit their proposed funding levels to IDA for review and comment would
be advanced to February 1 each year (Section 3.04 of the draft Project
Agreements).



-18-
61.     O&M of the irrigation and drainage works, including tubewells,
constructed under the project would be the responsibility of the PIDs.
The provinces have agreed to make adequate and timely budgetary alloca-
tions to meet these incremental O&M costs (Section 2.09 of the draft
Project Agreements).
62.     The appropriateness of maintenance of. SCARP public tubewells is
also being given concerted attention by the Government. A nearly-
completed UNDP-financed "SCARP Transition" study, for which the Bank is
serving as Executing Agency, presents proposals for divestiture and/or
private replacement of the public tubewells in selected fresh groundwater
areas. The GOP is expected to request Bank Group financing for a project
to initiate this transition process on a pilot basis. While tubewells in
saline areas will remain in the public sector for the foreseeable future,
efforts need to be made to improve their operating efficiency and reduce
maintenance costs. Special attention would be given to management of the
tubewells under the proposed project in order to demonstrate more effi-
cient operating procedures.
Cost Recovery
63.     To ensure the reliability of adequate funds for maintenance of
the irrigation system, the Government intends ultimately to recover all
O&M expenditures. In addition, it intends to recover a portion of its
capital investment from the beneficiaries. lUnder the ISR Project each of
the provinces agreed to increase water charges periodically, or make other
financial arrangements, to cover an increasinag percentage of the cost of
the O&M program of the irrigation facilities so as to achieve full
recovery of this cost by dates (previously agreed in separate IDA
agreements) ranging from 1988 in Sind to 1992 in Baluchistan. This com-
mitment was reconfirmed in the Development Policy Letter accompanying the
SAL at which time "periodically" was defined as "at intervals of not more
than two years, subject to any necessary legislative approval."
64.     Punjab and NWFP last increased water charges in FY81/82, at which
time the four provinces had achieved a total increase of about 95% over
four years. In addition, Baluchistan and Sind increased water charges in
FY82/83, and Sind introduced in FY83/84 a drainage charge to cover about
25% of public tubewell O&M costs. In FY83/84 all four provinces intro-
duced an Islamic levy called ushr to be used by local authorities to
benefit the needy. This year the Government expects to collect about
US$35.0 million equivalent from ushr. It maintains that ushr should
qualify as an "other appropriate financial arrangement" since (a) it is
assessed exclusively on agricultural production and (b) it will substitute
for expenditures the provinces would otherwise have to make for such items
as scholarships and medicines and thereby release funds for general
budgetary requirements including irrigation O&M.



-19-
65.     During negotiations of the proposed Credit, the IDA repre-
sentatives stated that to enable the provinces to carry out their existing
obligations, an increase in water charges of at least 25% would be
required by FY85/86. The Pakistan delegation noted IDA's views, and
reaffirmed their intention to increase water charges periodically, or make
other appropriate financial arrangements, to cover an increasing percent-
age of the cost of O&M of irrigation facilities so as to recover the full
cost of OEM by the previously agreed dates (Section 3.07 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.06 of the draft Project
Agreements).
66.     Farmers under the proposed project would contribute all unskilled
labor or about 25% of the total cost of watercourse renovation. Also, in
order to decrease the provincial burden from canal lining costs, the
project would seek, through the WUAs, a contribution from farmers for a
portion of the unskilled labor for the earthen work. In addition, in
Punjab, Sind, and Baluchistan, a minimum of 20%, 25%, and 25% respectively
of the cost of materials for watercourse renovation under the project
would be recovered from the beneficiaries. In NWFP, where farmers cur-
rently benefitting from similar activities do not pay any part of the cost
of materials, it was agreed that the province would furnish to IDA by
February 1, 1985, for review and comment, proposals to achieve recovery of
such materials, and implement these proposals thereafter within a time-
frame satisfactory to IDA (Sections 2.07(b) and 3.05 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Project Costs
67.     Total project costs over the five-year period (July 1984-June
1989) are estimated at Rs 1,105 million (US$81.9 million) with a foreign
exchange component of about 6%. Estimates are based on February 1984
prices and include about US$1.2 million in taxes and duties, but exclude
expected farmer labor contributions for watercourses renovation (estimated
at about US$4.2 million).
Financing
68.     The proposed IDA Credit of US$46.5 million equivalent would
finance about 58% of total project costs net of taxes and duties. USAID
is expected to extend a grant of about US$25.0 million which would finance
an additional 31% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties.
Farmers' cash contributions toward watercourse renovation would amount to
about US$1.1 million.
69.     IDA would finance:  investigations and surveys; civil works relat-
ing to canal rehabilitation and remodelling, and drainage components;
vehicles, radio communications, survey equipment, and office equipment and
furniture; local experts; and incremental field and project management



-20-
staff. USAID would finance: OFWM civil works; water management
equipment; and expatriate experts.
70.     In Pakistan all project funds, whetlher ultimately financed by
local or foreign donor sources, must be inc'luded in either the federal or
provincial Annual Development Programs (ADPs). In the past, failure to
allocate sufficient funds for certain projects in the ADP has caused
shortfalls in project funding. Most of the financing for this project
would be included in the provincial ADPs. The IDA funds under the provin-
cial ADPs would be on-lent from the federal Government to the provinces on
IDA terms. Conditions of credit effectiveness would require: (a) final
approval of the PC-ls (the GOP's project document) by the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC); (b) evidence that
sufficient funds for the first project fiscal year (1984/85) had been
provided in the respective ADPs; and (c) meeting all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the USAID funding (Section 6.01(a),(b),(c)) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Imprest Account
71.     As the provinces have in the past experienced difficulties in
financing certain expenditures for project activities, a civil works
Imprest Account at the federal level and su'b-accounts at the provincial
level were established under the OFWM Project (Cr. 1163-PAK) and the OFWM
component of the Drainage IV Project (Cr. 1375-PAK), and they have worked
well. A similar system would be used under this project, with an Imprest
Account at the federal level and sub-accounts at the provincial level to
cover all IDA-financed civil works contracts. However, modifications
would be made as follows: (a) I]DA, as requested by GOP/GOProvinces, would
deposit and maintain a level of rupees in the imprest account and sub-
accounts for a subsequent four-month construction period; and (b) the
provinces would submit periodic withdrawal applications, which would
record the utilization of the credit allowances. Upon receipt of
withdrawal application from the GOP and the GOProvinces, IDA would make an
initial deposit of the SDR equivalent of Rs 4.0 million in the Imprest
Account (within the State Bank of Pakistan) for transfer to the sub-
accounts. The operation of this system of accounts would be made in
accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and their
establishment, and the Government's initial deposit into them, would be a
condition of effectiveness (Sections 2.02 and 6.01(d) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
72.     Because project civil works associated with the project would be
small, subject to seasonal construction periods, and scattered over a wide
area, international competitive bidding (ICB) would not be practical.
Civil works associated with the canal rehabilitation and remodelling, and
drainage components, would be carried out by: (a) local competitive



-21-
bidding (LCB); and (b) force account through use of PID equipment,
personnel, and facilities. There is a need to revise existing PID tender
documents to make them satisfactory to IDA. LCB contracts exceeding
US$200,000 would be sent to IDA for prior review. Force account unit
rates would be reviewed with IDA. Transport (including motorcycles),
communication, and tubewell equipment would be procured through ICB in
accordance with IDA guidelines. MWP would coordinate the procurement of
such equipment. Total estimated costs for such ICB-procured equipment is
about US$1.3 million. Because of the relatively small amount of office
and survey equipment required in the four provinces, these items would be
procured following provincial procedures satisfactory to IDA whereby the
concerned agency would compare the prices from at least three independent
suppliers. The aggregate amount of such LCB-procured equipment would not
exceed US$0.3 million. Appointment of suitably qualified local super-
visory consultants (estimated total cost of about US$1.8 million) would be
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement procedures are summarized
below:
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Force                 Total
Project Components       ICB      LCB     Account      Other       Cost
Investigations            -        -        1.2          -          1.2
& Surveys              (-)      (-)      (1.1)        (-)       (1.1)
Land Acquisition          -        -         -          1.4         1.4
(-)     (-)        (-)        ( )         (-)
Civil Works                      29.1      12.5        21.7       63.3
(27.7)    (11.9)        C-)       (39.6)
Equipment                2.4      0.3        -           .3        3.0
1.3)   (0.2)       (-)        C-)        (1.5)
Technical Assistance    1.8        -         -          5.3         7.1
& Training            (1.8)    (-)        (-)         (-)       (1.8)
Administration            -        -        5.9          -          5.9
Engr. & O&M            (-)      (-)      (2.5)                  (2.5)
TOTAL              4.2    29.4       19.6       28.7        81.9
(3.1)  (27.9)    (15.5)        (-)       (46.5)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed
by IDA.
All items financed by USAID would be procured according to procedures
satisfactory to USAID.



-22-
Disbursement
73.   The IDA credit would be disbursedl for:
(a)  95% of the cost of investigations and surveys;
(b)  95% of the cost of civil works related to canal rehabilita-
tion and remodelling and clrainage components;
(c) 100% of the cost of the supervisory consultants;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported, or 100% of
the ex-factory price of domestically manufactured, vehicles
radio communication, survey, and furniture equipment, and 55%
of local expenditures (off-the-shelf); and
(e) 60% of the cost of OFWM field teams and sub-project manage-
ment staffs.
74.     Disbursements for works undertaken by force account and for small
contracts costing less than Rs 300,000 under item (b) would be made
against statements of expenditure; disbursements under item (a) and (e)
would be made under statements of expenditure; supporting documents would
be retained by the implementing agencies for review by IDA. Disbursements
for items under (b) carried out by contractors for contracts costing
Rs 300,000 or more and for items under (c) and (d) would be fully
documented.  Reimbursement applications for LCB contracts under (b) to be
funded through the imprest accounts would be accompanied by a statement of
transaction on the imprest sub-accounts sinc.e the previous application,
with the balance certified by the State Bank of Pakistan. Based on infor-'
mation from implementing agencies, sub-project managers assisted by super-
visory consultants would be responsible for the initial preparation of IDA
reimbursement applications which would be submitted to MWP, which in turn
would forward the disbursement applications to IDA for reimbursement.
Reimbursement applications for technical assistance would be prepared by
the Ministry and submitted to IDA for reimbursement. The final IDA dis-
bursement for the project would be expected to be completed by March 30,
1990, about nine months after project completion. The disbursement
schedule is based on the disbursement profile for the OFWM (Cr. 1163-PAK)
project, which is the most comparable project with implementation
experience in Pakistan.
Benefits and Risks
75.     The project would raise agricultura:L production and incomes of
about 50,000 farm families on 510,000 ac through the provision of a pack-
age of improved water management activities, along with deliveries of
non-water agricultural inputs and services. Canal rehabilitation
remodelling and watercourse improvements would save about 290,000 ac/ft of



-23-
irrigation water per year. The project would also improve irrigation
water supplies through better water scheduling, reduce crop and property
losses caused by high watertable and storm flooding, and improve
deliveries of non water inputs. These activities would result in
increased agricultural production mainly from increases in cropping inten-
sities and yields. By reducing imports of wheat and increasing exports of
rice and cotton, the project would improve the GOP's balance of payments.
The overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 24%.
76.     Because of increases in cropping intensities and yields, the
project is expected to result in additional direct annual farm employment
of about 18,000 man/days. In addition, watercourse improvements and canal
lining proposed under the project would require a farmer labor contribu-
tion of about 28,000 man/days during the five-year construction period.
As the construction activities would be undertaken during slack labor
periods, it is expected that about 80% of this labor requirement would
be supplied by family labor. The value added in agriculture, plus the
increases in input requirements, should also generate indirect additional
employment opportunities for farm families with excess family labor and
for landless families.
77.     Since all direct benefits would come from increased farm
productivity, the distribution of benefits would largely follow the exist-
ing pattern of land ownership. Two-thirds of the intended beneficiaries
would be small farmers operating less than 12.5 ac, with current estimated
per capita income ranging from US$50 to US$150, compared with an estimated
rural poverty per capita income level of US$150 (1981 estimate). It is
estimated that about one-fourth to one-third of the direct benefits would
accrue to these small farmers.
78.     Risks relating to the proposed engineering and agronomic project
components are considered relatively small. The executing agencies have
experience in carrying out works proposed under the project, while the
farmers in all the subproject areas but one are fully exposed to irrigated
agriculture. Moreover, the expected cropping intensities and yields are
currently observed on some individual farmers' holdings within the sub-
project areas. Therefore, no unusual risks are foreseen regarding the
project's technical implementation. However, its success would depend on
the coordinated and timely execution of all project components and on a
substantial involvement of the WUAs in project planning and
implementation. The major risk for this project relates to achieving an
efficient project management organization. The management system proposed
(paras. 50-54) is a pilot undertaking in Pakistan. This system has been
agreed on following lengthy consideration by, and discussion with, the
provinces and the federal Government. It is designed to monitor closely
all project activities and provide quick feedback for early resolution of
implementation problems. The institutional arrangements proposed would be
continually evaluated by the Government and IDA and modified as necessary.



PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements
between the Association and the provinces of Punjab, Sind, NWFP, and
Baluchistan, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Additional conditions of effec-
tiveness would be evidence that sufficient funds have been committed under
the federal and provincial ADPs for FY84/85; meeting of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the USAID Agreement; establishment of,
and initial deposit into, civil works Imprest Account and sub-accounts;
establishment of the Project Policy Committees and the sub-project manage-
ment offices; and approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 documents for the project
(Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
80.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
81.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATI]ON
82.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 4, 1984



-25-
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                        PAGE 1
PAKISTAN                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (M)ST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             LOWA INCOME            MIDDLE INCClE
1960-/-b    1970'   ESTIMATE/-        ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                803.9       803.9       803.9
AGRICULTURAL                        228.8        243.3       253.2
CNP PEE CAPITA (DS$)                     70.0       140.0       350.0              276.7                     1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      143.0       209.0        224.0              398.4                      792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  45851.0       60449.0     84501.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)        22.1         24.9        28.7               21.5                       32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                             148.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                               410.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                              2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        57.0         75.2       102.1              161.7                      260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            200.4       248.4        324.1              363.1                     1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (1)
0-14 YRS                          43.8         46.3        46.3               36.6                       39.4
15-64 YRS                          51.8         50.5        50.9               59.2                       57.2
65 AOND ABOVE                       4.4         3.2          2.8                4.2                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                               2.3          2.8         3.0                1.9                        2.3
URBAN                               4.6          4.0         4.3                4.0                        3.9
CRUDE RIRTN RATE (PER THOUS)         51.3         47.4        45.5               29.3                       31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         24.3         19.9        15.8               10.9                        9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.7          3.5         3.1                2.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             . .     1908.1      1244.0
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..          ..         6.0               48.1                       46.6
FOOD AID NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        89.0        102.0       106.0              111.4                      125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (t OF REQUIREMENTS)       88.0         97.0       106.0               98.1                      114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           58.0        60.0         65.0               56.7                       57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         23.0         20.0        20.0/c             13.9                       14.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          25.4        21.5         17.3               12.2                        7.6
HPALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        43.3         46.2        50.2                59.6                      60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       161.5       143.0        123.2               96.6                       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                 ..        21.0        29.0/d             32.9                       37.1
URBAN                                ..         77.0        60.07W             70.8                       54.8
RURAL                                ..          4.0        17.07;             22.2                       26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         3.0         6.0/e             18.1                       41.4
URBAN                                ..         12.0        21.07;e            72.7                       47.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..          ..                4.7                       33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5400.0      4300.0/f    3480.0/f            3506.0                     7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           16960.0      10580.07f    5820.07f           4797.9                     2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1790.0       1860.0      1900.0/c           1100.6                     1047.2
URBAN                             510.0        650.0       710.07W            298.4                      651.1
RURAL                           22850.0      12480.0     11860.07W           5941.6                     2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         ..           ..                  ..                      27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4         5.3
URBAN                               5.6          5.5
RURAL                               5.4          5.2          ..                  .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               3.1         2.8/g
URBAN                               3.1          2.7/g         -
RURAL                               3.1          2.87         .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          17.9/g
URBAN                               ..         54.4/          ..
RURAL                                           4 4.9/_



-26-
ANNEX I
T_A B L E  IA                                           PAGE 2
PAKISTAN                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MMOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b_         lb  RECENT  /b            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960-  1970-  ESTIMATE-     ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      30.0         40.0         57.0                 5'6.1                      101.2
MALE                      46.0         57.0         81.0                107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                    13.0         22.0         30.0                 82.9                        97. 5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      11.0         13.0         15.0                 30.2                        44.9
MALE                      18.0         20.0         22.0                 17.3                        50.0
FEMALE                     3.0          5.0          8.0                 22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)              1.0          1.5          1.3/h                2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               39.0         41.0         45.0                 34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                             24.0         20.0         17.0                 18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                 15.4         20.7/i       24.0                 53.5                        72.9
CONSUMFT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              1.5          2.6          4.5/c                1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             6.0         17.1         67.0                 96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..          1.6          9.7                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                13.2           ..         13.7                 16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          1.7          3.0/i        2.2                  3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            14448.0      17364.0      23375.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       8.6          9.3         10.3                 33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 61.0         59.0         57.0                 69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    18.0         19.0         20.0                15.8                         19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7         27.7                 42.5                        38.6
MALE                                  55.2         50.4         47.2                 54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5          6.0                 29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7          1.8                  1.0                         1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              20.3/5       17.8           .1. 6.5                                        22.2
HIGHEST -20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           45.3/5        41.8           ..                43.5                         48.0
LOWEST 207 OF HOUSEHOLDS               6.4/5        8.0           ..                  6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              17.571       20.2           ..                 17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROIJPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (LUS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..         68.0/i      176.0                133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                   *-         47.0/i      122.0               111.6                        155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   . .        34.0/i       88.0                   . .                      178.0
RURAL                                   ..         22.07i       58.0                   ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                   ..         42.0/i       32.0                43.8                         24.4
RURAL                                   .          43.o07       29.0                 51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
Ia  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1973; /h 1978; /i 1972; /5 1964.
May 1983



-27-                                                                                      ANmi  I
Page 3
DtFItITtIOS OF SOCIAL MItlCATORS
totssr ulntvtgb thetale ae druto frosstarr   generlly jdgedth  eetaohoottsniee  and reIabl IIt,  ett,l also be note-d tha  then earco  h, J-Intrt tonll.y
descrIbeordr        agtud          odrt  tredi.,ad   iaatre    etI    ao    ifcte    ete   otcue
ubje             ..r.nry .ecet for "OhIcoe  Il   eoresgto              br   TMiddl  I_ca  tooth uf_t  t    tdl   ee    echcnbeatoo   ttneeo -utoa
atttta       nterfrnegopdt   b ter,- HaIe poplto   egtd   attetusansit for each InIaoJn.                                             he   nyoe  njrt   fterulttI 
..T tt.srfce .re   cosreng  land a-e  and toltod  ae; t96l,                             phactn    ohrtn o  aidelca                sco ly a       oorIty   ..ete..
loft atd loft dete.                                                                                 Prltu   o r      O-luo7titePrau  -  opltho            edb   ube fI          ett  o
1907  and tOf0 deta.Polto   per do'll a teISd                                                                                                  - oa.tb-o..ad oural -Pouain(total
ISP PEA CAPITA ffS5) - GNP pc-cpt   a  uee   tcret  act te                                                 .o..bl  In pub~lcad pI tnatab getoral andI            "'.clIterd  hoPca ` td
rluadbY.:'ecI     -tett  ehId Ie Worl  too   Attaa (lot9-st  bassIt                               rabebil ittttu   cetes   tHusita1s ar  stalbeo                p--aetly s.hade
1960, l9ft,Ico181 dana                                                                                   by ac leas  ore physlotno.  t         lbet Eroridlog  prttcpelytutdia,
tEElGY CONSUMPTIOt ?ER CdPITu - fatnIl apoettnupioo-oarclsdicel ..tr.                                                          utpreetl   tfeIb_                 hscintu   p     std
an    eubratsecerty    n   toreaofcaYeuoae                           hye  Iaptta                         prod  alatdro              oftdcl fact bte,   roty atattatbIostI pupatI
Id i,  hI.  sdIoo  daa.r.. hepnt  tldr A                                                                                                       hitt   nntyagIf a   bectat  todota
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hstas otlo ua notaaadorla n  atriyecr
PtyLATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                           Spcatrdbaitl   r                 pincue    ny   ueit
Total  apolalor, Ci-Tear ; thotana          I tf Joly I; 1906, lOll, anmlftaetet1  S                         getIII  hoapttl.  tad  -ITotal toohe  -f doleoet   rtahr
data.                                             f   b:  t                                             fine   oaital  dtotdd by the  . uuh- of teds.
diffaract dficittoNe  of  rbao arassa            lfet   _oparebliy ofdaa                           tOol
agn    tahht   5Z   00   n   01daa-Yrp    tto   iahl   cnot  e   othl   -ut,uht  n   ua
fypjg4o5rt~tlne- Aboaeol  rnsst  o  e  rop fIFdniuadotAbahrOUStuIqarer
-ear.  Te -preyter  fur fer  -luc  oteh als  bar   thee Inel                                     utoccopldIll yarts.                                                             i
coshinattna of soisllty  ed fertiliy  trendsfor projotorn  puruers.                 tftotal, obat, and  uralhdIa.tngsheadcnP.aP.
StetOnary   toolain-lastsintar   popoationther   taouroc
tuoa tb  birth  tto  it  qual tnthe deth rae  at  als.te  goiCAdO
osusu   heppuaio   oth   ea   10,an   hort  o   ecie  ffrr  htaluc-                                                          o  dfart  lrta  fprerytn'tJt   o
tear etartotry rorolatno  Ia reahe   - Tbr yea  thnesCcor                                          lc  toot yuiaar   no  o   Ao   ioofiilobol
porulrtnts,cetlb qr1cb td.ttho adyshrhl-utat,a-dudfeeae-C,sutIdSeaboD;Cecaiar
rooato   Dniy                                                                                        drtineqirattua    un   arroIdcutdptar   oarcttI
- Old-year ypulatift.pe   59 Icr ,ulootrh tIlhcer    fpuie    enrl   oalcl crahe   ri  o   ntuttn  for
rotalil  lOt, 1071  urd  ORi daa.                                            yutlauscllr o 121 toll yrdr  uf- g;oraodr                       cusar
onr    Ol, 107 =td -O d dare-                                                                                         "l.loatclarlen  ecn   facnay   -~ iocaInn _ ot_utuc
poyu iaitYI_1001  tol  and. 100  data                                    y. foc b-eahe  rat It. l -                                i cruuacr. and- seonay-otl-tlct  cocci-  led i
yerpy ietc    o    00S,10-1   n  ll-hI.                                                         crapo..ody..Yg-dlecelt-
~popultion    u   006,190I,ad17-0.aprrtg   oft total adutI                                                                               oplo`f   agd.T. ro    ndurr
Crude Sirth itact trer thitatodl - annualItlIre htrtbr per-cro ld.d.ut-o-d
poplato; t960, 1970,.d16 ad.t1001 doa.casattigbartatngh  pr                                                                                -c;   It .ud     . ablnaee,  erte  o
hery treal  rardurtit.pro   if  Ib raycoI urr p tor-cg.I age-speifi                                 tadlo    I teeter (.pottoaadopuaint-01  ya u,eetrefu   ai
ferility  rates; utua0i  tlryareeaesedndt   O    1078,1cd                                            btdcaet  to geea I        utlc_   pr lhooad  o    ouuItncCdtc
1001.                                                                               l~~~~~~~7D   .   9tci.rtuodrrcetrero  tocuIrltTad I       yrr  afdret  reis     -1t1rrd II
PaoglrPlannIoo-aacedttot.antuat)-lboosondl_I    ualar.      ro    -ceporetotta   tntetdta-rco   pasoycceupoblonenn
of hI-i..-coru dI      cr-   udr  u 19ice0e if-0L   neIon    ol        f platin                       cutiohl Iohrd  I                         tcenaIrg
Greatlrylhcoltg- ta hr t..c..        o  ertccr)-rdrntg   ofnrrt                                          ocrirubIc           - artu tdpoulturtcldsulteetrrruu_u
Y,IboiriceoccurInroh-crdhccf  I-tie   I                                                                                     Po thuur    gu ltit   -r ucu.ctod     rg
Orant  udi, uotIiC                                                                                   cONUPIrc                   h.u ruiotcrlitro    royyc,ortr   uayrutc
annul prducticr  f al  foo   cumodiita.Prodctio  eocudo  tee  andin b  'raly'  f Itopparo  t Iret furiIfaaae"i
fodadi   rcledrfa   ai.   nedcacocprar   od   rg.Coo   aatAtadtcprlcrepria-aaIo,ten  hti
sugarcane  taerd  of augr)- I         Ifa atecdcnanntret   ra                                     raoal  dt.rItd  the yoae  P,.icui..         dltitturc-ocnstr
data.                                                                   LdtOt p0__0Cc    - -r         -     i--           ~       _                  f   dt
entroytoutoolooc  of non food eupp   Ire  .neiaut  in il coutr  y.r caita pe                 fruood    horld  hu   otuigi-otinaiIuuc,  t.  unrn
eaporta , and cbangee to atnuk.  Den ouppitta  roclude onsel feed, eards,             canparotle 1 (OAt, 1071 andI_0I1dd.ca
ta rtte   urii  rofpocasog   ndtnae   n   iarbuio.                                       eal  IcocniI      roi.lhu   Ote   o  e uotfeufrra  lbr  ure
ce __dnntr    etatfb d_ar  o   hooniaIedetttnoIaiutueIocc       aorfrti   aou,fuery    ttt   u
nof  upya   udpr  e.Dclpl   ffodI   etr   aaod.Priialtht Id    p                                                                 Prco  CI - tuta    --tS d , nae   n   oatpcIctpat,Iu_ to
Third  World yroo tuner;  lObI-AS, 1010 atd lObtSat.                                    Ort   -i leednyOth I-   ttoI             fpounluude    I  r   5  o  orc
uatn    r  - col  and pulkro  inrae  ie dy   edtcl   1   ad,  1077.;19'
date.:,   h,CnclIint_iI
at birth; 100, lIft ac  iOAl daco.atoutd  be ttorpretbd  oIf  utct   .r.cou                                                                        ..tot
dec o  ateccc uruueud 11c hitha;10t,OtadtO   or.uali u.t docooc teto I..                                                         he   turnetot1heoutltatuaa
Nuaher if people  I tdtal, urhor, dend rual  crheecbacrero                                   fudit
at..t.ryo..llys  prntgf             ofrtctraI I   rIdr po....a na                                    prca    uo   frh   onr.   .catlte itdtrd roIorua
a      Ieftu u 60 tapaIf Ire pcrr of  tuu,atun)I-tutel  urba, an
rura- to=    o    t         thpourl   7tutl  urhan  and rual Itroe   by eo r -rcadb.
iad IcidIrocotcio    t  diootl,ou   or1- o                    bYue  trAtaitt , offuut.tlSctlIaolotu
h   -a oceaat  ar-ctrb  oacacdern  _yfoca   Ototofpt                                                                                rucacaulutat    rcn oo   ear_t
prtolescdalst    `r mcl ftatlona6 .~                                                                                                                  ray- t....ool.I  '



--28-
ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1987/83 /a                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ billion         x           1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82  1982/83
GNP at market prices              31.45           100.0               3.5                6.8            3.8      7.3
r.rcss domestic investment         4.86            15.4              -5.5                4.0            9.4      9.0
GrV3s national saving              4.43            14.1              -2.1                6.9            5.0    20.3
Current account balance           -0.55            -1.7
Resource gap                      -3.18           -10.1
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982/83
Value Added           Labor Force tb          V. A. Per Worker
$ Million    x         Million    %               US$       %
Agriculture                        7,968     31         13.5       51               590     60
Industry Lc                       6,333      24          5.4       20            1,173    120
Services                         11.566      45          7.6       29            1.522    156
Total/Average                  25,867    100          26.5      100              976    100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 1d                               F Federal Government
(RS billion)            % of GDP                  (RE; billion)         % of GDP
1982/83 /e    1982/83  1977/78-1982/83           1982/83 /e  1982/83  1977/78-1982/83
Current receipts                     60.1           16.3          15.8                  46.8         12.7          12.4
Current expenditures                 57.7           15.7          14.1                  45.0         12.2          10.6
Current surplus                       2.4            0.6           1.7                   1.8          0.5           1.8
Capital expenditures /f              28.2            7.7           9.3                  21.5          5.8           7.4
External assistance (net)             5.7            1.5           2.8                   5.7          1.5           2.8
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1973/74  1974/75  1975176  .1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83 /a
(Rs billion)
Money and quasi money                   28.0      33.1     41.6      51.7      63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    113.6       147.4
Bank credit to public sector            14.4      17.5     22.7      29.5      34.3      43.1     48.1      54.1      60.1       71.6
Bank credit to private sector           15.6     19.7      23.1      30.1      35.7      42.7     50.6      58.7      70.9       86.9
(percentages or index numbers)
Money and quasi money as % of GDP    32.2         29.5     31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0     38.3      37.0      35.1       40.1
Consumer price index (1969/70=100)  157.8    200.0    223.3    243.9    260.7    282.5    311.8    355.0    396.0               416.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                    30.0      26.7     11.7       9.2       6.9       8.4     10.4      13.9      11.5        5.2
Bank credit to public sector                      21.2     29.4      28.8      16.6      25.6     11.6      12.5      11.1       19.1
Bank credit to private sector                     26.3     17.3      30.3      18.6      19.6     18.5      16.0      20.7       22.6
La  Provisional.
lb  Projection for 1982/83.  Does not include unemployed labor force.
/c  Includes manufacturing, mining, construction and electricity and gas.
/d  Consolidated revenues and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial
Government transfers).
Le  Revised budget data.
/f  Excluding principal repayments of loans.  Capital expenditures as defined in government budget include
certain current expenditures.



-29-
ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                        MERCH'ADISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1982/83)
1978/79  1979/80  1980181  1981/82   1982/83                                        US$ million          z
(US$ million)
Exports of goods, NFS                2,107    2,955    3,461    3,052        3,474          Raw cotton                      302.3          12.4
Imports of goods, NFS                4.485    5.709    6.466    6,679        6.655           Cotton yarn                    210.7           8.6
Resource gap (deficit   -)          -2,378   -2,754   -3,005   -3,627    -3,181              Cotton cloth                   252.3          10.3
Rice                           401.9          16.4
Interest payments                     -261      -285     -357      -320       -421          All other comodities          1,277.4          52.3
Workers' remittances                 1,395    1,7'8    2,097    2,224        2,886             Total                      2,444.6         100.0
Other factor payments (net)            134       151       274      188         162
Net transfers                           ..        ..        ..        ..         ..
Balance on current account          -1,110   -1,140       -991   -1,535       -554                    EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEKBER 1982
Direct foreign investment               ..        ..
Net MLT borrowing                                                                                                                    08  million
Disbursements                        813    1,134        956    1,102      1,301
Amortization                        -235      -310     -516      -492       -389          Public debt, including guaranteed          9,178.3
Sub-total                            578       824      440       610        912          Non-guaranteed private debt Le.
Transactions with IMfLa                -14        !8       315      358        413.            Total outstanding and disbursed         9,178.3
Other items n.e.i. /b                  238       600       546      318        331
Increase in reserves (-)               308      -362     -310       249    -1,102                  DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 /f
Gross reserves (end year)/c            386       748    1,058       809      1,911                                                         x
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                      1.8       1.8       1.8      1.8         1.9
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum imports Id                   530    1,079    1,535    1,710        1,610          Public debt, including guaranteed             10.2
Petroleum exports Id                    61       178       126       194        77           Non-guaranteed private debt
Total                                   10.2
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 1982)(US$ million)
Through May 11. 1972             From May 12. 1972-Feb. 15. 1973                                                               IBID        IDA
US$1 - Rs 4.7619                         US$1 - Rs 11.00                              Outstanding and disbursed              339.7    1,051.0
Rs 1 = 1S$0.21                           Ps 1 - US$0.09                               Undisbursed                             111.3       563.0
Outstanding including undisbursed   451.0    1,614.0
From Feb. 16. 1973-Jan. 7. 1982    From July 1981-June 1982 La            From July 1982-June 1983 L/
US$ 1 - Rs 9.90                         US$1 - Rs 10.55                   US$1 - Rs 12.75
RE  1 - US$0.10                         Rs 1 - US$0.095                   Rs 1 - US$0.078
/a  Including Trust Fund.
/b  Including net short-term  borroving and errors and omissions.
/c  Excluding gold reserves of about 1.8 million troy ounces.
/d  Crude and derivatives.
/e  Non-guaranteed private debt service is negligible.
/f  Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and workers' remittances; debt service does not include
short-term or IMF charges.
I Effective January S, 1982, the rupee is being managed with reference to a weighted basket of currencies. The average
exchange rate shown is via-a-vis us$ for the period shown.
April 1984



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1984) /a
(USS million)
Loan/                                                     (imount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                    Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                                 Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Ninety-three loans and credits fully disbursed Lb    731.4  32.0    936.lLf
620        1976   Seed Project                              --              23.0    4.4
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply                                26.6    1.4
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Ehairpur)          --              14.0    5.1
1366T      1977   Punjab Livestock Development             --    10.0       --       4.4
678        1977   Third Education                          --               15.0    3.8
751        1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development           --                3.0    0.6
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation            --              70.0   67.9
755        1978   Hazara Forestry                                            1.7    1.0
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                --               12.5    5.7
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                   60.0   55.5
892        1979   Primary Education                        --               10.0    5.1
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --                9.0    6.8
968        1980   Third WAPDA Power                        --               45.0   12.9
974        1980   Third Highway                            --               50.0   28.8
1019       1980   PICIC Industrial Development             --               40.0    6.0
1109/e    1981   Vocational Training                       --               25.0   19.3
1113/e    1981   Small Industries                          --               30.0   10.5
1157Le    1981   Grain Storage                             -                32.0   24.9
1158/e    1981   Agricultural Research                     --               24.0   16.8
1163/e    1981   On-Farm Water Management                  --               41.0   23.4
1186/e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)          --               30.0   16.1
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                 40.0             --      29.2
2172       1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                         32.9
2247/c    1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities          10.2             --      10.0
2305/c    1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)                10.0             --      10.0
2324/c    1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines          43.0             --      43.0
1239/e    1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                    40.0   34.0
1243/e    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.           -                14.0   12.6
1256/e    1982   Technical Assistance                      --                7.0    5.6
1278Lc    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                  --               50.0   46.9
1348/c    1983   Lahore Urban Development                  --               16.0   16.0
1350/c    1983   Population                                -                18.0   17.2
1355/c    1983   Coal Engineering                                            7.0    7.0
1374/c    1983   Karachi Water Supply                                       25.0   25.0
1375/c    1983   Fourth Drainage                                            65.0   63.9
1380/c    1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    --                    47.8   39.9
2218       1983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0              -      10.2
2351/c    1984   Petroleum Exploration                     51.5              -      51.5
2374/c    1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Deve'Lopment  30.0                 --      30.0
2380/c    1984   Industrial Investment Credit              50.0                     50.0
1439/c    1984   Industrial Investment Credit              --               50.0   50.0
Total                                                   1,066.6  42.0  1,919.0  905.3
of which has been repaid                                490.7   0.5       32.1
Total now outstanding                                     575.9  41.5  1,886.9                                            )
Amount sold                    23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                         --_   --         --      -
Total now held by Bank and IDAL'd                         575.9  41.5  1.886.9
Total undisbursed                                        *266.8   4.4    634.1  905.3
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
Le  Not yet effective.
/d  Prior to exchange adjustment.
Le  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs. The principal
is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed amounts are
computed at the market rate on dates of disbursements.
/f  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAK (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1984)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63      --        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles               0.75     --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.        Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                  Development
1969-                           Financing              --      0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles               1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products       19.38    0.84      20.22
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92       3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63       6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.37       2.77
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04       31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78      --       1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board         2.70     --        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17       3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                4.25      --       4.25
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals       87.71    1.56       89.27
t               Total Gross Commitments                    170.82   11.60    182.42
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               126.30    1.02    127.32
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          44.52   10.58       55.10
Undisbursed (including participants)        86.74    0.34      87.08



-32--
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
COMMAND WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project
12 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project
WAPDA
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
the first IDA mission to consider the project
June 1983
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 18, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1984
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
Deposit of advance into ImLprest Account
Section III:   Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Evidence that sufficient funds for the project had been
committed under the federal and provincial ADPs for
FY84/85 (para. 70);
(b) Meeting of all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the USAID Agreement (para. 70);



-33-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Establishment of, and initial deposit into, civil works
Imprest Account and sub-accounts (para. 71);
(d) Establishment of the Project Policy Committees and the
sub-project management offices (para. 52);
(e) Approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 documents for the project
(para. 70).
Other Special Conditions
(a) All farmers in an outlet command to establish a
WUA as condition for OFWM assistance, and Government to
consult WUAs prior to and during remodelling
(para. 53);
(b) Provinces to submit O&M proposed funding levels to IDA
annually by February 1 (para. 60);
(c) Provinces to make timely budgetary arrangement to meet
incremental O&M costs of works constructed under the
project; and
(d) Portion of cost of materials for watercourse renovation
to be recovered from beneficiaries in three provinces,
and NWFP to submit proposals to this effect by February
3, 1985 (para. 67).
f






-  a?   { v \i.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   0                     ir.                                               \.                  /         FEBRUAFY  1984~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBRAY   5.
\                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P A KM   S T A  N                                         .v.-_                _ 
o )roe\ COMMAND WAFER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
L,\k (-k"           6          3Progere/H-ook, Moo Deser-oo-s     P Pro-.I Heodqoorreos
O F ~ ~    ~   _       /       \                                            -     lz c.n l                8   -    Corns   oro  Rse oooirs c u d R sr o s (   r v n m * 0 , H e7 d qu resf
S  L  A  M   I C      R  E  P.       /                                                    -      -g .-r  Cons-             --  Flood Erobrk-rroo                  Nor orol Cqpitrl                                             J
O  F                     >                                                            risD,, aLes_k P.,                                                         B-ud-r s 
(US.  S. R.
a   ~~ ~                                                             1>                                                                                                                       -                  -l y7-    '----   <>o-%.
A F G H A N I S T A N                                 
.~  .9                                        2il>.    r   -                 ~                 'Kh.-  QUETTs                                                                                  Cl      ICY
.     i..*,-  <../  ;... >                 P,shre -l b d                                    -N O  R     7 , H                          .  0         N  0 0r 5.
al   -Ataur  ( t zf F NG DAM t 0 \l                                                                                                                                                                   b.1
R4AKtsrAN ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     hoo                                                                /                                        CAA   x.'p-o9PCAIAWAR    Sod             7  \
9   A    Z    U ,,      H         5                                  Er                                               . -WKo I N D-
a.~~~~ Aho                                                                                    Doho                                                                  0X/~ ,RI.= t.  <  ~::\'    _ _ _ _ , F               .  _i
.                               YAM          M
Foo,,robod  S   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                               . \UO             t~~~~~~~~XSRrNAGAR2
2>  Y         </                       * \  's                                                              ./    7    Sor0odYo             55~--,DGh  K
A  /  \-'               F/~~~~~~                    A'00  0. ~~~ J-boloh.J0                     eohso                           YA                        00~'
ff.,                 orALoDA
A  '00*            ,.  O  w  o r o .. o - o -\      (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  >F/'  oF/or.  -    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ,   N. ~~~~~~~~~-
A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0~Oo.                                                                         ~AFA/rY               r/CIo\Ki4e.UoM  
DA  .41.                                                                                                                  N(A00 o//h s     ~000PrPToN-..  OIYFs   
KARACHI,   P R I G)/                ~     C                                                          soor-on                                                                 
-T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-
T-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HN



Iv-L~                                                                                                                                                                                         I



