CREDIT NUMBER 1487 PAK
Punjab Project Agreement
(Command Water Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
Dated                         /3     , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1487 PAK
PUNJAB PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  /3         , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and PROVINCE OF PUNJAB (hereinafter called the Pro-
vince).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-three million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 43,700,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that the Province agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, except
that the term "Project" means that portion of the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement for
which the Province shall be responsible.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Province declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and irri-
gation practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,


﻿-2-
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Province undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Province to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) The Province shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Province shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Province shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) Upon the award by the Province of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) The Province shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property, equipment, records and documents relevant to the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Province shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) The Province shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Province of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. The Province shall establish, not later than
the Effective Date:
(a) at the Provincial level, a Project Policy Committee, to
be responsible, inter alia, for formulating policy and coordinat-
ing the activities of the departments and agencies involved in
the carrying out of the Project; and
(b) A Project Management Office, headed by a Project Mana-
ger, to be responsible, inter alia, for implementing policy and
carrying out certain specific activities related to the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) The Province shall cause:
(i) as a condition of making financial assistance
available to farmers for the purposes of Part C of
the Project, such farmers to form Water Users
Associations at the outlet command level; and
(ii) prior to and during the carrying out of remodel-
ling of distributaries and minors under Part A.1
of the Project, such Water Users Associations to


﻿be consulted both at the Sub-project and distribu-
tary levels.
(b) The Water Users Associations referred to in (a) above
shall assist the departments and agencies of the Province, as
appropriate:
(i) by providing their portion of cash and labor
required for the Project; and
(ii) in assessing the needs under, and formulating work
plans for, Part C of the Project.
Se ,:)n 2.08. The Province shall furnish to the Association
for comm .its, not later than March 31 in each year, the annual
work plan for the following year for each of the Sub-projects for
which the Province is responsible.
Section 2.09. The Province shall make adequate and timely
budgetary allocations to meet the operation and maintenance costs
of the irrigation and drainage facilities provided under the
Project.
Section 2.10. The Province shall ensure that: (a) the Water
Users Associations will operate and maintain the watercourses
renovated under Part C of the Project, and (b) they will provide
adequate funds, facilities and other resources for this purpose.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Province shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition in respect of activities related to the Project,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) The Province shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit


﻿-5-
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall ena-
ble the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. The Province shall: (a) have the accounts
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (b) furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than nine months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; (c) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts, records and expendi-
tures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request; and (d) without limitation to the fore-
going, furnish to the Association, not later than six months
after the end of each such year, the unaudited accounts of the
Project.
Section 3.03. The Province shall at all times operate, main-
tain, renew and repair, or cause to be operated, maintained,
renewed and repaired, in accordance with appropriate irrigation
and water management practices, the facilities and equipment pro-
vided under the Project.
Section 3.04. The Province shall review annually the levels
of funding required for operation and maintenance of irrigation,
surface drainage and flood control facilities and shall furnish
to the Association such levels of funding, for review and com-
ment, not later than February 1 in each year.
Section 3.05. The Province shall recover from the beneficia-
ries at least 20% of the cost of the materials provided to them
for the renovation of watercourses under Part C of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Province shall increase water charges
periodically, or make other appropriate financial arrangements,
to cover an increasing percentage of the cost of operation and
maintenance of irrigation facilities located in the Province, so


﻿- 6 -
that by  July 1, 1990, the full cost of such operation and main-
tenance is being recovered.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Province thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreemen:
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 30 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Province of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Province:
The Chairman
Planning and Development Board
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:                    Telex:
DEVELOPMENT                     82-04-4868
Lahore                          Punjab Secretariat
Pakistan                        Lahore, Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Province may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of its Planning and Development Board or such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing, and he shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of w1ich shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/S            d   Regonal Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the J          day of
198FE
FOR SECRETARY


