Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8273
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 891-CE)
DECEMBER 31, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal (1979)s    US$1.00  -  Rs15.5
Last Year (1986);    US$1.00  =  Rs28.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 long ton - 2.240 lb                  =  1.016 metric tons
1 hundredweight (cwt) = 50.8 kg        =  112 lb
1 bushel (bu) of paddy                 =  45 lb
1 pint                                 =  0.57 litres
1 acre (ac)                            -  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                            =  1.609 kilometres (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)                  8  640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)                            =  30.5 centimetres (cm)
1 chain                                =  66 ft
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
ADA      - Agricultural Development Authority
ADB      - Asian Development Bank
ARTI     - Agrarian Research and Training Institute
BOC      -  Bank of Ceylon
CCB      - Coconut Cultivation Board
DOA      - Department of Agriculture
DOI      - Department of Irrigation
DMEC     - Department of Minor Export Crops
GOSL     -  Government of Sri Lanka
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
KVS      - Village Level Worker (Krushi Karma Viyaptha Sevaka)
MPCS     - Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies
O & M    -  Operation and Maintenance
PB       -  People's Bark
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFIAL USE ONLY
THI WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O0 of Owto-G.wai
*     ~~Opmatiam Ivahiatan
December 31, 1989
HEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report - Sri Lanka
Kurunegala Rural Develo2ment Project (Credit 891-CE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report - Sri Lanka Kurunegala Rural Development Project (Credit
891-CE)", prepared by the Asia Regional Office and the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                                    I
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance i
of their official dutis. Its conents may not otherwise be disclosed witot World Bank authoriation.



FOR OMFCUL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface    ..............................................  ()
Evaluation Summary ............................................     (ii)
PART I - Project Review from Bank's Perceptive ...................  1
Project Identity ........................................  1
Background .........................................,       1
Project Objectives and Description ......................  2
Design and Organization .................................  4
Project Implementation ..................................  5
Project Results ..................................         11
Project Sustainability .................................. 16
Bank Performance ..................................        16
Borrower Performance ..................................   17
Project Relationship ..................................   19
Consulting and Contractual Services ...... . ............. 20
Project Documentation and Data .......................... 20
PART II - Project Review from Borrower's Perspective .............. 22
PART III - Statistical Information ..... .......................... 23
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits           . . .    23
Project Timetable .    .    ..................................... 24
Credit Disbursement .................................... .   25
Project Implementation                ....  26
Project Costs and Financing              . . .   28
Project Costs .    .     ...................................... 28
Project Financing                 ....  29
Project Results .    .     ....................................... 29
Direct Aenefits .    .    .................................... 29
Economic Impact .    .    .................................... 30
Financial Impact .    .    ................................... 30
Studies .. ............................................ 31
Status of Covenants .    .    ................................... 31
Use of Bank Resources                ....  32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
TABLESs
1.       Cropped Paddy Area and Cropping Intensity ...............  33
2.       Credit Disbursement by Participating Banks ..............   34
3.       Annual Credit Disbursement by Participating Banks ....... 35
4.       Paddy Under Major Irrigation - Financial Budget ......... 36
5.       Paddy Under Minor Irrigation - Financial Budget .........   37
6.       Paddy Under Rainfed Conditions - Financial Budget ....... 38
7.       Paddy Production    .....................    ............... .  39
8.       Coconut Development Area Improvement ....................   40
9.       Coconut Rehabilitation - Financial Budget ................ 41
10.      Coconut (Mature Plantations) - Financial Budget ......... 42
11.      Coconut Replanting/Underplanting - Financial Budget ..... 43
12.      Economic Price Derivation for Paddy and Fertilizer ...... 44
13.      Economic Price Derivation for Coconut      .      ....... 45
14.      Economic Analysis ......... . ...   ..    ... .......... 46
ANNEX 1 -List of Reports/Studies .......................47



v i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 891-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Kurunegala
Rural Development Projezt in Sri Lanka for which IDA Credit 891-CE for
US$20.0 million was approved in March 1979. The credit was closed on June
30, 1986 after two one-year extensions. The final disbursement was made on
January 21, 1987 and an undisbursed balance of US$2.9 million was cancelled
at that time.
The PCR was jointly prepared by staff of the Agriculture
Operations Division, Country Department I, Asia Region, and staff of
FAO/CP. The general findings of the PCR were discussed with Government of
Sri Lanka officers and staff of the Project Office and the Agrarian
Research and Training Institute following the PCR preparation mission, and
the Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III were sent to the Borrower
in June 1989 with a request to prepare Part II by October 30, 1989. None
was received.
Preparation of the PCR was carried out by an FAO/CP mission which
visited Sri Lanka in May 1989 and is based, inter alia, upon a review of
IDA records in Washington, discussions with staff, and documents and
reports prepared by GOSL and the World Bank during project preparation,
appraisal and implementation.



(ii)
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMEN1T PROJECT
(Cr. 891 CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       This project, the first of what was hoped would be a series of
projects, aimed at assisting the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) to evolve a
replicable model of regional development for raising productivity,
employment, incomes and living standards of the rural pcpulation through
strengthenJng of the development-oriented institutional services,
accompanied by modest but critical complementary investments in physical
infrastructure. More specifically, the project was to assist GOSL in
helping the rural inhabitants of the Kurunegala District. Because of the
predominant position of paddy and coconut in the district's economy as well
as the scope of large production increases for both crops, the principal
project thrust was to rehabilitate the production base of these crops and
to improve the required supporting services.
2.       To achieve these broad objectives the project provided fuinding for
institutional and infristructural development th._ough sub-componesnts
focussing on (a) improring irrigation and water management, (b)
rehabilitating and replanting coconut plantations, (c) upgrading
agricultural extension services, (d) improving agricultural input supplies
for improving livestock management, (e) improving credit operation and
resources, (f) improving livestock management, (g) increasing groundwater
exploration. (h) improving rural roads, water supply and electricity, (i)
increasing rural education facilities, and (j) establishing project
coordination and monitoring capabilities.
Implementation Experience
3.       Project implementation was initially expected to be completed in
five years (mid-1979 to mid-1984). However, implementation did not
progress as anticipated particularly in the initial period and the project
closing date was extended twice by one year in order to achieve most of the
set targets. Actual disbursements were US$ 17.1 million (862) of the total
Credit of US$ 20 million. The main reason for the slow start-up was a
fourteen-month delay in the procurement of equipment and vehicles, which
affected staff mobility ane execution of work. This was mostly due to the
inexperience of Agencies' staff wfith the Bank's International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures. The other important reason for delay was a
serious manpower shortage in the main implementing agency, i.e., the
Department of Irrigation which slowed down identification of tanks and
design of rehabilitation work.
4.       Although in quantitative terms Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
targets were achieved for most components the absence of an effective
institutional mechanism to absorb and react to farmers needs was a



(iii)
constraint which reduced the effectiveness of the project. It was not
until 1984 that the trained staff and equipment necessary for the project's
success were available. In the area of irrigation and water management,
implementation of the SAR model showed that it was best suited for adoption
in the intermediate zone were rainfall was more regular, whilst in the dry
areas of the district the model was less suitable. A larger sample with a
longer time spread would be required before an adjusted model could be
implemented throughout the district. So far, the attempts to introduce
improved water management in the district have failed. In other areas
successful implementation was influenced by prevailing practice, e.g., the
purchase of agricultural inputs from private trader (who gave credit)
rather than from the Multi-Purpose Cooperation Societies.
5.       The envisaged implication of extension service did not materialize
and the advisory services of the Coconut Cultivation Board, Department of
Minor Export Crops as well as the Department of Animal Husbandry continued
to render technical advice in their respective fields. However, the ratio
of farm families per village '-evel worker was reduced from 1,200 in 1979 to
850 at project completion, which is slightly higher than the appraisal
target of 600.
6.       Most of the project implementation difficulties could have been
avoided through more detailed project preparation efforts. In particular,
more attention should have been given to the strengthening of the
Department of Irrigation and to ensuring better inter-agency coordination.
The fact that the officials of the agencies involved in project
implementation were not familiar with ICB procedures should have been
recognized and technical assistance and/or training provided.
7.       A more careful assessment of the agro-climatic conditions of the
district would have helped to better formulate the coconut development
component and to define the horticultural sub-component at an early stage.
Also the downstream development works of minor irrigation schemes could
have been identified at an earlier stage, if more detailed survey work
would have been carried out. More accurate costings of civil works, based
on detailed programs and specifications, would have avoided cost overruns
and delays.
8.       The project risks were rightly identified as being:  (a) the
ability to achieve the necessary coordination in implementing the various
inter-related components; (b) the adoption of intercropping practices by
coconut smallholders; and (c) the shortage of professional and technical
staff, particularly design and construction engineers. However,
insufficient provisions were made at appraisal to minimize these risks.
9.       In retrospect, the decision to extend the project by two years
proved useful. It enabled the agencies involved to use the experience
gained during initial implementation to execute the remaining components
quickly and efficiently and valuable experience was gained for similar
projects in other districts. However, more decisive and concrete steps
should have been taken to ensure a greater level of beneficiaries'
participation in the identification process, in particular with regard to
the irrigation rehabilitation and the rural water supply components.



(iv)
Results
10.      The project as a whole can be considered a success as it has
achieved its main objectives, namely to increase paddy and coconut
production, to create employment and improve income and living standards of
the rural population in the district. It has also served as a model to be
replicated in other districts and many of the lessons learned during
implementation were incorporated in subsequent IRD projects. In addition,
the project has helped to strengthen the social infrastructure in the area.
It is, however, too early to assess the project's impact on the reduction
of inter-regional disparities. Throughout project implementation, none of
the project objectives were changed.
11.      In quantitative terms incremental production of paddy is estimated
at 56,000 tons compared with the appraisal projection of about 49,000 tons.
Increased productivity of mature coconut plantatinns is expected to result
in about 2,500 nuts/acre. The average yield of coconut arising from
project activities is 2,350 nutslacre. Overall, incremental coconut
production is expected to reach a maximum level of 107 million nuts in 2003
(i.e., 25 less than appraisal, with ten years delay) and production of
MECs will reach about 40Z of anticipated production, partly compensated
however by horticultural production which was not foreseen at appraisal.
12.      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at appraisal was estimated at
321. Using the same assumptions, the reestimation of the ERR (at 1989
constant prices) is 382. The Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was estimated
at 34Z. However, due to increases in fertilizer costs, stagnating prices
for rice and depressed international demand for coconuts the estimated 1989
FRR was only 10X.
13.      A positive trend was observed in income distribution.  In FY79,
before the commencement of the project, 192 or the population were below
the poverty line which was recognized as Rs 3,600/year. According to GOSLs
ex-post evaluation of the project in FY86, only 171 were below the poverty
line of Rs 7,000/year. This achievement is not solely attributable to the
project as the contribution of other national programs was also
substant.al. However, the inflow of relatively larger allocations of funds
under the project made a sizeable impact on the distribution of income,
particularly in the dry zone of the district where project focus has been
significant. It is assumed that more than 502 of the investments received
by the dry zone during FY79/FY86 came from project provisions. In
addition, the project created about 4 million man-days of direct employment
through labor-intensive works and about 2.5 million man-days of field work
under the coconut development program.
Sustainability
14.      All the facilities created under the productive components handed
over to the respective agencies before or on closing and all irrigation
schemes are still in full working order. Staff strength of the extension
service has been maintained and slightly increased. However, due to the
liberalizatior. of fertilizer marketing, the farm input stores created under
the Department of Agrarian Services are underutilized. The state of repair
of social infrastructure established under the project remained
satisfactory.



(v)
15.      The absence of water charges under the project for the major and
minor irrigation schemes makes them entirely dependent upon scarce and
fluctuating budgetary allocations for repair and maintenance resources
which raises doubts about their long term sustainability. According to
GOSL's ex-post evaluation report, the short and medium-term loan program
introduced under the project shows satisfactory recovery rates compared
with all island levels or pre-project levels. The overdue rate of crop
loans has fluctuated between 22 and 4.8Z and in the case of equipment and
machinery loans stabilized at 4Z in FY87. Together with improved
procedures, the credit component appears sustainable.
16.      The Government continues to support the investment undertaken by
the project including the annual 0 & H costs for project works and
services. Also, as proven by the conLinuously increasing cropping
intensity, the farming community has generally accepted the improved crop
husbandry techniques introduced by the project. The above are indications
that the project will probably maintain an acceptable level of net benefits
throughout its economic life.
Lessons
17.      The main lessons from project implementation are:
(a)  project design should focus more clearly on project organization
and management especially when a multitude of implementing
agenciacs are involved;
(b) in the case of projects which are innovative in type and design,
greater allowances for flexibility and a longer start-up period
should be allowed for;
(c) where new procedures are to be followed by the borrower (such as
ICB), sufficient allowance for training and/or technical
assistance should be made;
ld) greater participation of beneficiaries in project design and
implementation should be sought and encouraged to focus more
clearly on their needs and ensure their acceptance; and
(e) corrective action should be taken as soon as delays in component
implementation occur to avoid slippage of the project as a whole.



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.       Project Identity
Project Name        :   Kurunegala Rural Development Project
Credit No.          s   891-CE
RVP Unit            :   ASIAG - Ccuntry Department 1, Asia Region
Country             :    Sri Lanka
Sector              :   Agriculture
Sub-sector          :   Rural Development
2.       Background
2.01     Recognizing the pivotal role of agriculture in stimulating
economic growth and rural development, the Government of Sri Lanka's (GOSL)
medium-term plans and programs for agriculture concentrate on: (a)
increasing agricultural employment as well as improving income levels,
particularly for the economically disadvantaged groups; (b) increasing
self-sufficiency in basic food items such as paddy, milk, sugar, fish and
pulses so as to improve nutritional standards and to insulate the economy
from excessive fluctuations in external markets; and (c) expanding export
earnings both from traditional agricultural exports and 'non-traditional'
items such as cocoa, coffee, pepper and spices.
2.02     The Government strategy for achieving these objectives had
emphasized better utilization of the existing potential through
institutional and policy improvements as well as rehabilitation of the
production base, where necessary. Among policies and programs being given
high priority by GOSL were establishment of appropriate price incentives
for producers; strengthening of agricultural supporting services such as
research and extension, credit, farm power supply and fertilizer
distribution; improved irrigation water management; and stepped-up programs
for rehabilitation of the plantation crops.
2.03     During FY76, the Government started to decentralize planning,
monitoring and coordination by transferring more responsibilities and
allowing greater autonomy to the district administration. To give an
operational content to the decentralization programs, GOSL proposed to
undertake a number of Integrated District Development Projects. These were
to emphasize low-cost, quick-yielding, labor-intensive investments amid at
better utilization of the existing potential by relaxing critical
bottlenecks and constraints.
2.04     The Kutunegala Rural Development Project has been the first
attempt to develop an entire district in an integrated manner. At
appraisal, it had been expected that over the next decade all districts in



Sri Lanka would be covered by similar projects. This, however, did not
fully materialize; by the end of 1988 only fifteen districts were covered
(four IDA, Two IFAD and nine bilateral dor,ors), in three of which,
activities had to be suspended due to civil disturbances.
3.       Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.01     Objectives.  The project aimed to assist the GOSL in evolving a
replicable model of regional development for raising productivity,
employment, incomes and living standards of the rural population through
strengthening of the development-oriented institutional services,
accompanied by modest but critical complementary investments in physical
infrastructure. More specifically, the project was to assist the
Government in helping the rural inhabitants of the Kurunegala District.
3.02     Because of the predominant position of paddy and coconut in the
district's economy as well as the scope for large production increases for
both crops, the principal project thrust was to rehabilitate the production
base of these crops and to improve the required supporting services.
3.03     Components.  At appraisal, the project was estimated to have an
duration of five years with a total project cost of US$ 30 million
equivalent and to comprise the following main components:
(a) Irrigation and Water Management (US$ 5.50 million)
i)   improvement of nine major tank schemes;
ii)   rehabilitation of 500 village irrigation schemes;
iii)   improved water management for irrigation schemes.
(b)  Coconut Development (US$ 3.70 million)
i)   improved husbandry programs for 150,000 ac;
ii)   rehabilitation of 60,000 ac;
iii)   replanting/underplanting of 15,000 ac;
iv)   intercropping of 10,000 ac.
(c) Agricultural Extension (US$ 1.00 million)
i)   provision for incremental staff and training;
ii)   provision of staff housing, vehicles and equipment.
(d) Agricultural Input Supply (USS 1.05 million)
i)   establishment of a seed processing center;
ii)   construction of 80 fertilizer stores;
iii)   incremental staff salaries, vehicles and equipment.
(e) Agricultural Credit (US$ 7.05 million)
i)   provision of short and medium-term loans;
ii)   improvement of credit operation.



-3-
(f) Livestock (USS 0.15 million)
i)   construction of offices, clinics and staff quarters;
ii)   provision of equipment and vehicles.
(g) Groundwater Exploration (USS 0.55 million)
i)   construction of 180 test wells;
ii)   provision for mapping, surveying, equipment and vehicles.
(h) Rural Roads (USS 0.80 million)
i)   construction of 130 miles of high priority rural roads;
ii)   provision of construction equipment and vehicles.
(i) Rural Water Supply (USS 0.60 million)
i)   installation of 400 dug wells.
(j) Rural Electrification (USS 0.80 million)
i)   electrification of 16 rural areas;
ii)   provision of equipment and transport vehicles.
(k) Health (US$ 0.35 million)
i)   construction of offices and staff quarters;
ii)   provision of ambulances, vehicles, generators and simple
medical equipment.
(1) Education (USS 0.70 million)
i)   construction of 140 science rooms, 40 teachers' quarters
and upgrading of seven senior secondary schools;
ii)   provision of educational equipment.
(m)  Project Coordination and Investigation (US$ 1.05 million)
i)   vehicles, office equipment and additional staffing for
project coordination and management both in Kurunegala and
Colombo;
ii)   support for the preparation of a district statistical
handbook, for the preparation of other development schemes
in the district and the preparation of similar rural
development projects in four other districts.
3.04     The irrigation and water management component which was almost
entirely aimed at increasing rice production and the coconut development
accounts for over 39Z of base costs. Together with the supporting credit,
extension and input supply program, over 78Z of project base costs were
almost entirely allocated to improvement in paddy and coconut production.
In the following evaluation, major emphasis will therefore be given to crop
production.



- 4 -
4.       Proiect Design and Organization
4.01     Design.  Project design was based on the Integrated Rural
Development (IRD) concept which had already been adopted by GOSL. The main
assumption underlying the project approach was that the existing economic
and social infrastructure in the country and the district is substantially
underutilized and prospects exist for a rapid and significant improvement
through upgrading of institutional services and infrastructure as well as
the provision of finance, especially for private sector investment in the
production base. Although the project included 13 different components, it
did not attempt to tackle all aspects of regional development. Instead the
project design aimed at a pragmatic compromise between comprehensiveness
and manageability. Due mainly to the diversity of its agro-ecological
zones, Kurunegala was been selected as the representative district in Sri
Lanka for a first IRD project to be implemented in the country and to serve
as a model for replication in other districts.
4.02     Being the first of its kind, the project concept was innovative in
its attempt to complement directly productive investments such as the
rehabilitation of irrigation schemes (mainly for rice production) and
coconut improvement with limited investments in transportation, health,
education, etc.; to improve utilization and effectiveness of the existing
facilities; to reduce intra-regional disparities and to develop the social
infrastructure for growth in the long term. In the light of its
objectives, the scope and scale of the project was appropriate.
4.03     Generally, the project was w,l prepared.  However, with the
benefit of hindsight, a longer project implementation period could have
been foreseen. Also a better analysis of the agro-climatic conditions in
the major coconut growing areas would have been useful to focus more
sharply on the coconut intercropping component. Although the project
stressed the need for strong political participation, it omitted to
highlight the need for the involvement of the beneficiaries at an early
stage, which adversely affected mainly the irrigation component.
4.04     The timing of the project was more appropriate as it came in the
wake of the then recent liberalization of economic policy in the country
and assisted further private investment in the production base. In
addition, it supported the newly introduced decentralization program at a
time when it was critical to demonstrate that this approach would lead to
increased responsiveness of developmental efforts to local needs and
priorities and would promote balanced regional development.
4.05     Organization.  Due to its many facets, a total of around 20
agencies from 12 different ministries were involved in project
implementation since the project was designed to utilize existing agencies
rather than creating a new institutional set up. For the purpose of
project coordination, a Project Steering Committee was established at
national level and a Project Coordinating Committee at district level. A
project office headed by a Project Director was in charge of monitoring,
supervision and coordination of the work programs of the various agencies
in the field.



4.06     To a certain extent, project pteparation suffered from a lack of
clarity in defining objectives, roles and expected coordination for each
sector and agency particularly where different agencies were called upon to
work in the same sector. This was clearly observed in the coconut
development sector which involved the participation of many agencies, like
the Department of Agriculture (DOA) for extension, Department of Minor
Export Crops (DMEC) for inter-cropping in coconut lands and the Coconut
Cultivation Board (CCB) for the execution of the subsidy programs. The
coordination among these agencies and their supporting roles were not
sufficiently stressed at the time of the project appraisal.
4.07     The insufficiently defined roles in the implementation of the
Unified Agricultural Extension System was another problem area identified
at the project implementation stage. Under the proposed system, the DOA
was assigned with the overall functions of agricultural extension including
those crops coming under the purview of the DMEC and the CCB. As there was
not general consensus among the involved agencies, the proposed roles of
the DOA remained in ambiguity in these areas. Similarly, in the proposed
component of groundwater exploration and rural water supply, the
demarcation in respect of its implementation responsibilities was not
sufficiently stressed at the planning stage. Subsequently, these problems
had to be resolved both at national and district levels with the respective
department and district heads, adding to delays in implementation.
4.08     Although the use of multiplicity of existing agencies may have
contributed to a slower than anticipated project implementation, overall
organizational experience has been positive and more cost effective than
the establishment of yet another agency.
5.       Prolect Implementation
5.01     The implementation experience of the various project components,
with emphasis on the directly productive components and the most critical
variances between planned and actual targets are discussed in the following
paragraphs.
5.02     Project implementatior. was initially phased over a five-year
period (mid-1979 to mid-1984). However, implementation did not progress as
anticipated particularly in the initial period and therefore had to be
extended twice by one year in order to achieve most of the set targets.
Actual disbursements amounted to US$ 17.1 million or about 86? of the total
IDA Credit of US$ 20 million.
5.03     The main reason for the slow start-up was the delay (up to 14
months) in the procurement of equipment and vehicles, which affected staff
mobility and execution of work. This was mostly due to the inexperience of
the agencies' staff with International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures. The other important reason for delay was a serious manpower
shortage in the main implementing agency, i.e., the Department of
Irrigation (DOI) which slowed down identification of tanks (only 130 were
identified at appraisal) and design of rehabilitation work.
5.04     Due mostly to these delays, by mid-1984 only 50? of the IDA Credit
funds were disbursed and less than a third of the directly productive



components Implemented. However, most of the social infrastructure
components were completzd on time.
5.05     Irrigation and Water Management.  The single most important
component in achieving the rehabilitation and improvement of the paddy
production base was the irrigation rehabilitation and impro*ement of water
management. A total of nine major and 500 minor irrigation schemes were to
be rehabilitated. By mid-1984, only three of the major and 263 of the
minor irrigation schemes were completed due to various constraints (para.
5.03). However, by the end of the extended project period, all nine major
schemes had been completed and 453 of the minor schemes.
5.Ot     Although in quantitative terms appraisal targets were nearly
achieved, the absence of an effective institutional mechanism to reflect
farmers' needs with regard to design and implementing the rehabilitation
work was a major deficiency and resulted, in several cases, in a reduced
usefulness to farmers and a subsequent reduced commitment to repairs and
maintenance. Another constraint was the lack of provision for the
development of downstream works at minor irrigation schemes. This was
rectified only in 1983 with the allocation of funds for the rehabilitation
of 150 such works.
5.07     At appraisal, the need for the adoption of an improved package of
agricultural and water management practices was stressed to optimize the
benefits from the investments in irrigation improvement. The SAR specified
that the 'Walagambahuwa' model, development at the Maha Illuppallama
Research Station, be adopted. The principal hypothesis underlying this
model water management program was that water saved during the main rainy
(Maha) season can be used to cultivate a second crop in the less rainy
(Yala) season. Dry sowing the first crop, rotational water issues in Maha
season and crop diversification in the second season are some of the key
elements in the efforts to improve the efficiency of water use. For this
purpose, the appraisal report had emphasized the need for advancing
cropping calendars, avoidance of staggered cultivation, use of short
duration varieties and mobilization of group action through education and
training. The implementation responsibilities were assigned to the
Agrarian Services Department responsible for operation and maintenance of
irrigation works.
5.08     According to the 1988 export evaluation review of the project
carried out by the Agrarian Research and Training Institute (ARTI) the
basic requirements for water management, both the trained staff and
equipment, were only available in 1984 and a pilot program was initiated at
25 rehabilitated tanks in 1985. Experience gained there indicates that the
model is best suited for adoption in the intermediate zone as rainfall is
more regular, whilst for the dry areas of the district the model is less
suitable. A larger sample with a longer time spread would be required
before the introduction of an adjusted model throughout the district could
be envisaged. So far, the attempt by the project to introduce improved
water management in the district can be considered a failure.
5.09     Paddy production.  The rehabilitation of major and minor
irrigation schemes together with an overall increase in cropping intensity
has resulted in an annual incremental production of 56,000 tons of paddy at



-7 -
full development compared with the appraisal estimates of 59,000 tons. The
next cultivated area was under-estimated but the total cropped area was
over-estimated at appraisal thus resulting in a high cropping intensity
(Table 1). Although a lower cropping intensity is assumed by the mission,
based on the data provided by the district DOA responsible for the
implementation of the project, the incremental cropping intensity (141) -
mainly due to the provision of additional irrigation supply - is higher
than the appraisal estimates (9X).
5.10     Input supplies.  Supply of farm inputs for paddy production has
improved considerably.  The seed processing (2 tons/hour capacity) and
storage complex was completed in 1983, one year before the original date of
completion of the project. Although good quality seeds were produced,
seeds of the reqsuired varieties were often not available at the time
required. A jample survey by ARTI in 1985/86 indicated that only one-third
of farmers obtained certified seeds from government agencies and others
used seeds from previous harvests or from neighbors. Fifty-seven out of
the revised target of sixty fertilizer stores were completed by 1986.
However, only about 50X of the stores constructed for Multipurpose
Cooperative Societies (MPCS) were fully utilized, partly due to the fact
that farmers preferred to purchase fertilizers from private dealers from
whom they could obtain credit readily and easily.
5.11     The provision of additional farm power for land preparation was a
success. Although 200 units of 4-wheeled tractors were proposed at
appraisal, only 103 units were provided and the program thereafter
discontinued, partly because of poor financial resources of the average
farmer and partly due to the operation of a similar program by another
agancy and cases of misuse for non-agricultural purposes. The remaining
balance and incremental funds were used for the purchase of 2,306 units of
2-wheeled tractors compared with the appraisal target of 500 units.
5.12     Coconut development.  A comparison of appraisal targets and
achievements is provided below:
Appraisal       Achievement
Project Component            Target         1984     1986
. . . . . . (acres) . . . . . .
Rehabilitation                60,000     71,529    79,800
Replanting/underplanting      25,000     16,795    24,000
Increasing productivity       50,000     20,780    24,790
of matured plantation
inter-cropping               10,000       4,100     4,415
5.13     Under the rehabilitation program, high priority was given by
farmers to construction of contour drains for prevention of soil erosion,
and provision of employment during the off-season. Only about 19Z of the
farmers had obtained subsidies for removal of excess or unproductive palms
because of the temporary reduction of family income.
5.14     The coconut replanting/underplanting sub-component did not
progress as rapidly as anticipated at appraisal. Acreages completed by
1983 constituted only 612 of appraisal target although this increased to



- 8 -
902 at the revised project completion date. Development was slow and
unsatisfactory in the first three years due to an insufficient supply of
coconut seedlings, delays in identification of smallholdings and solving of
land disputes. Other contributing factors included low subsidies and delay
in subsidy payment to farmers. Sub;Ady rates were increased three times
(1979, 1982, 1984) but were not commensurate with increasing production
costs due to inflation. it is reported that only about 341 of the original
participants of the scheme qualified for the second instalment; 172 for the
third payment and only 12 was eligible to receive the fourth and final
subsidy payment. Non-eligibility was due to the inability and reluctance
of the farmers to complete specified works such as removal of senile or
excessive palms and maintenance of underplanted palms.
5.15     In order to increase productivity of mature plantations, the SAR
anticipated the provision of credit to enhance fertilizer use on 150,000
ac. However, only about 172 of the area benefitted from this program. Low
usage of credit facilities for fertilizers was due to lack of farmers'
awareness about the credit scheme and the high cost of fertilizers relative
to farm-gate prices of nuts. Only about two-fifths of fertilizer users
were smallholders owning 5-10 acres.1
5.16     The coconut intercropping sub-component was a partial failure due
mainly to the selection of locations with inadequate rainfall; land with
unsuitable soils; coconut holdings with excessive shade and inappropriate
selection of crops. In addition, many farmers resisted this introduction
as the technology of cultivation and processing was new to them, besides
requiring a long gestation period of development and high costs. Also, the
quantum of subsidy had been inadequate, particularly for smallholders. The
system of providing subsidy payments in four equal annual instalments hap
not been helpful to smallholders since the bulk of the development costs
were incurred during the first two years. In view of the unsatisfactory
progress of this scheme, the home garden and horticulture program(mainly
bananas, mango and citrus) was introduced in 1983.
5.17     Eight new nurseries were established and two existing nurseries
were improved for the production of coconut seedlings. Except in 1980 and
1983/84 (severe drought) sufficient seedlings were produced for supply to
project participants. Nurseries were also established for the production
of planting materials of minor export crops such as cocoa, coffee and
pepper. Since the demand was less than expected, the nurseries were also
used, commencing 1985, for the production of bananas, ginger, pineapple,
etc. for supply to various home garden cultivation programs especially in
the settlement schemes. The establishment of 1,450 home gardens was
approved during revision in 1984 and 1,422 were established by project
closing.
5.18     The ARricultural Extension Service was consolidated and
reorganized to function along the lines of the training and visit (T & V)
system, although certain aspects required improvement. The capacity to
expand extension activities was improved. Closer linkage between extension
and research was forged through the setting up a Research and Training
I/ Sample survey by Agrarian Research and Training Institute.



9 -
Group which met regulerly and the training of extension staff as well as
farmers was strengthened.
5.19     The envisaged unified extension service did not materialize.  The
advisory services of the CCB, DMEC as well as the Department of Animal
Husbandry continued to render technical advice in their respective fields.
However, the ratio of farm families per village level worker (KVS) vas
reduced from 1,200 in 1979 to 850 at project completion, which is slightly
higher than the appraisal target of 600. Fortnightly visits were made by
KVSs, though not very regularly because they were still involved in work
unrelated to extension.
5.20     Staff accommodation and mobility were improved under the project.
However, about 501 of the quarters constructed for KVSs under the project
were not occupied. Reasons for non-occupation included the lack of basic
amenities such as drinking water and electricity and lack of medical and
educational facilities in the localities of residence. Jeeps (12) and
mini-buses (2) provided under the project have allowed agricultural
officers to carry out supervisory and training activities also in remote
areas of the district. Only about half of the total number of pedal cycles
proposed (277) have been purchased by KVSs.
5.21     Agricultural credit.  In order to facilitate farmers' access to
inputs, the project had allocated US$ 7.05 million (including US$ 2.4
million and US$ 2.1 million IDA Credits for crop production and equipment
and vehicle loans respectively) for the provision of short-term loans
mainly for paddy cultivation and medium-term loans mainly to support the
fertilizing program on 50,000 acres of coconut and the purchase of
tractors. In addition, the credit operation was to be improved including
the recovery of overdue loans.
5.22     As discussed above (para. 5.11), the restructured tractor credit
program well exceeded its original target, the crop loans for rice
cultivation and coconut fertilizer, however, showed a very poor
disbursement performance (see Table 2).
5.23     Loans amounting to only Rs 84.3 million were provided for the
latter category by the two participating banks (People's Bank - PB and Bank
of Ceylon (BOC). The Development Credit Agreement, however, stipulated
that Category 4 of the IDA Credit would only cover annual loan expenditures
by the banks which exceed Rs 7 million (as the bank's contribution) and
then only to cover 40X of the excess. As a result, only about 251 %US$ 0.6
million) of the IDA Credit target was disbursed (see Table 3).
5.24     It was mainly the non-availability of trained staff for the
promotion of credit at farm level, slow and cumbersome credit procedures,
increased transaction cost and more stringent rules in determining the
credit worthiness of borrowers which affected crop loan disbursements. In
uidition, generally declining net returns per acre cultivated as well as
the impact of drought years on yields contributed to the poor performance
in this component.
5.25     Another aim of the credit component was the recovery of some Rs 16
million in overdue debts (which were disbursed prior to the project) owed



- 10 -
by an estimated 25,000 farmers in the district to the PB (Re 11.2 million)
and the BOC (Rs 5.3 million).  With regard to the BOC, recovery amounted to
over 932, whilst only 35.7Z of the outstanding loans were paid back to the
PB (as of December 31, 1986).
5.26     According to the ARTI Ex-Post Evaluation Study, the limited
success of the latter could be attributed largely to the laxity on the part
of the MPCS through which most of the agricultural credit had been
disbursed before 1979. Besides the laxity in screening of individual loan
applications, some of the societies had failed to maintain detailed records
of loans disbursed, thus making the recovery of overdue loans difficult.
Consequently, the PB in disbursing agriculture credit had withdrawn its
links from 12 out of 14 MPCSs in the district.
5.27     Livestock.  As foreseen, the number of veterinary ranges was
increased from nWne to fourteen; the three clinics, offices and staff
quarters were constructed in remote locations and the required vehicles
provided. Although small, the sub-component was considered as very useful
as it allowed vaccination programs to be carried out on time and pasture
and fodder production increased. However, more attention should have been
given to enhancing the facilities for artificial insemination.
5.28     Groundwater exploration.  Of the 180 envisaged test wells, only 88
were constructed as this number was considered sufficient to provide the
required data base. The remaining funds were used to construct 200 tube
wells. Fiftv-four of the test wells were later converted into production
wells whilst about twenty of the tube wells are now reported defunct.
5.29     Social infrastructure.  The investment included the construction
of 130 miles of rural roads, the provision of 400 dug wells, the
electrification of 16 rural areas, improvement of the health care delivery
system in 15 locations as well as the upgrading of educational facilities
and equipment. With the exception of minor changes (see Part III/4), there
were no major variances between planned and actual implementation of the
various sub-components.
5.30     Proiect coordination and investigation.  The project office was
established in time and although different project managers led the project
through implementation, there were no significant disruptions. It is,
hotever, noted that although the project was to a large extent oriented
towards agricultural production, no agricultural officer was assigned to
the project office to assist with the implementation and monitoring and
evaluation of agricultural operations. The office prepared the envisaged
statistical handbook of the district and prepared similar IRDP projects for
four other districts in the country which were taken up by IDA or bilateral
donors.
5.31     Cost.  In US$ terms, total project cost exceeded the appraisal
estimate by about 122. Overall IDA Credit utilization, however, fell short
by US$ 2.9 million (14Z) due mostly to the poor disbursement performance
under the crop loan category.
5.32     In contrast, total project cost in local currency was estimated at
RS 465 million with a GOSL contribution of Rs 80.5 million. Instead, total



- 11 -
project cost increased to over Re 726 million with a reaulting Government
contribution of over Rs 152 million which had to be covered by the GOSL
Consolidated Fund. These cost overruns are due mostly tos (a) the
increase in the average level of prices over the project period was much
higher than what was provided for at the time of project appraisal; (b)
additional items of work undertaken during the project period; and (c)
depreciation of the Sri Lankan currency in relation to foreign currencies.2
From the above, it is quite evident that physical and price contingency
provision allowed at the beginning of the project was inadequate.
5.33     Evaluation.  Most of the above variances could have been avoided
through more detailed project preparation efforts. In particular, more
attention should have been paid to organizational matters including the
need to strengthen the DOI and to ensure better inter-agency coordination.
The fact that the officials of the agencies involved in project
implementation were not familiar with ICB procedures should have been
recognized and technical assistance and/or training provided.
5.34     A more careful assessment of the agro-climate conditions of the
district would have helped to better formulate the coconut development
component and to define the horticultural sub-component at an early stage.
Also the downstream development works of minor irrigation schemes could
have been identified at an earlier stage, if more detailed survey work
would have been carried out. More accurate costings of civil works, based
on detailed programs and specifications, would have avoided cost overruns
and delays.
5.35     The project riots were rightly identified as beings  (a) the
ability to achieve the necessary coordination in implementing the various
inter-related components; (b) the adoption of intercropping practices by
coconut smallholders; and (c) the shortage of professional and technical
staff, particularly design and construction engineers. However,
insufficient provisions were made at appraisal to minimise these risks.
5.36     In retrospect, the decision to extend the project by another two
years has proven to be useful. It enabled the agencies involved to use the
experience gained during the first years to execute the remaining
components in a fast and efficient way for the benefit of the rural
population in the district and valuable experience was gained for similar:
projects in other districts. At the same time, or even earlier, more
decisive and concrete steps should have been taken to ensure a greater
level of beneficiaries' participation in the identification process, in
particular with regard to the irrigation rehabilitation and the rural water
supply components.
6.       Project Results
6.01     Project Objectives.  The project as a whole can be considered a
success as it achieved its main objectives, namely to increase paddy and
coconut production, to create employment and improve income and living
standards of the rural population in the district. It has also served as a
2t At appraisal, US$ 1 = Rs 15.5 at credit closing USS 1 - Rs 28.



- 12 -
model to be replicated in other districts and many of the lessons learned
during implementation were incorporated in subsequent IRD projects. In
addition, the project has helped to strengthen the social infrastructure in
the area. It is, however, too early to assess the project's impact on the
reduction of inter-regional disparities. Throughout project
implementation, none of the project objectives were changed.
6.02     Physical Results.  At appraisal, it has been estimated that as a
result of the project the area under irrigated rice would increase by
10,000 acres, that over 60,000 acres of coconuts would be rehabilitated and
15,000 ac replanted and 10,000 ac intercropped. Together with improved
crop husbandry and increased fertilizer use, it has been estimated that
incremental production would amount to 49,000 tons of paddy and 155 million
coconuts at full development in 1986 and 1991 respectively. Results of
other cropping activities such as horticultural crops and MECs were not
specifically detailed but considered as a secondary but still important
source of income.
6.03     For paddy, crop yields were very much underestimated at appraisal
for both the with and without project situations. Modest yield increases
are assumed with the project and comparison of yields at full development
with appraisal estimates are summarized below:
Maior Irrigation   Minor Irrigation      Rainfed         Average
Schemes              Schemes
Without     With   Without      With  Without  With  Without   With
-............  (tons/acre)  .........0......
SAR      1.24      1.41      0.96      1.08    0.90   1.02    1.00    1.12
PCR      1.73      1.93      1.40      1.49    1.06   10.6    1.36    1.44
Yield increases with the project are due to more assured irrigation and
small increases in the rate of fertilizer application. Revised crop
budgets per acre are based on data provided by the DOA. Details are given
in Tables 4 to 6. At full development, annual incremental paddy production
is estimated at 56,000 tons compared with the appraisal projection of about
49,000 tons (Table 7).
6.04     Performance of the coconut sector and the minor export crop sub-
sector (coconut intercropping) was significantly affected by the drought
years. Although the civil works program was completed as scheduled and all
the nurseries established and fully productive, the field works program of
intercropping and replanting/underplanting suffered a setback.
6.05     Based on project data, it is estimated that y.elds will average
1,700 nets/ac at full development in replanted/underplanted areas and 2,300
nuts/ac in rehabilitated areas. Increased productivity of mature
plantations is expected to result in about 2,500 nuts/acre. The average
yield of coconuts arising from project activities is 2,350 nuts/acre.
6.06     It is estimated that the project resulted In an incremental yield
of 880 nuts/acre compared with the appraisal estimate of 400 nuts/acre.
Contrary to appraisal anticipation of yield increase from 1,700 nuts/acre



- 13 -
pre-project to 2,000 nuts/acre without the project, it is assumed that
there would be a decline in yield (evident presently) to 1,470 nuts/acre
without project intervention, due to farmers retention of old and
unproductive palms and deteriorating husbandry practices.
6.07     Appraisal estimates assumed that the entire coconut area (370,000
ac) in the district would benefit from coconut development given an annual
increzental production of 144 million nuts at full development in 1991.
However, project benefits only attributed to areas affected by the project
(see Tile 8) in order to reflect the actual situation.  The incremental
production is summarized below:
Without   (..        ...... .Without Project .............)
Proiect    Annual Production   Incremental Production
1992      2003        1992         2003
....................... .(million nuts)..
Replanting/under-    14.4       25.7         40.8      11.3           26.4
planting
Rehabilitation       127.7     183.5        183.5      55.8           55.8
Increasing produc-   37.3       62.6         62.2      24.9           24.9
tivity of matured
plantations
TOTAL                179.4     271.4       286.5       92.0          107.1
6.08     Full development is expected to be attained in 1990 in the case of
rehabilitation and increasing productivity of matured plantations but only
by 2003 under replanting/underplanting because of delayed and slow
underplanting of palms. The estimated net income per acre for the
different coconut schemes at full development is given in Tables 9 to 11.
6.09     Although, at appraisal it was assumed that about 200,000 acres of
coconut lands would be suitable for intercropping and only 52 was proposed
to be tackled by the project, implementation experience haR shown that even
this modest target was over-optimistic. Agro-climatic, soil and
topographical conditions combined with manpower constraints prevented a
further expansion of the intercropped area. Also the cumbersome subsidy
procedures in connection with the minor export crops program and the
sometimes poor quality of planting material, further affected the program.
6.10     As a result of the above, the incremental coconut production is
expected to reach a maximum level of 107 million nuts in 2003 (i.e., 252
less than appraisal, with ten years delay) and production of MECs will
reach only about 40? of its anticipated production level, partly
compensated however by horticultural production which was not foreseen at
appraisal.
6.11     Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return (ERR) at
appraisal was estimated at 322. This ERR was derived by including all
investment costs (except price contingencies and agricultura. credit) and
post-project costs for the completion of coconut development works started
under the project, as well as imputed cost of family labor used in coconut
development works. Also included were incremental crop production costs as



- 14 -
well as operation and maintenance (O & M) costs during project
implementation and subsequent 0 & M costs for project works and services.
On the benefit side, the analysis was based only on incremental production
of paddy and coconut.
6.12     Using the same assumptions, the re-estimation of the ERR has been
carried out in 1989 constant prices. Past expenditures excluding taxes and
duties were adjusted to 1989 constant prices by using GDP deflator factors.3
All local costs, except for labor, were converted into border prices by
using the SCF of 0.75. For labor, a SF of 0.80 was applied. For the
projected 1995 equivalent paddy prices, values of Rs 6,139/ton were used
(Rs 3,185.0 at appraisal) and for coconuts Rs2.79/nut (Rs 1.10 at
appraisal) were calculated based on World Bank Commodity Prices and Price
Projections as were fertilizer prices (see Tables 12 and 13).
6.13     The re-estimated ERR of the project is 38Z.  Factors contributing
to the increase above the SAR estimate of 32? are the higher incremental
price production and a steep increase in the economic value of paddy and
coconuts (see Table 14).
6.14     Financial performance.  At appraisal, it was estimated that net
farm incomes would increase by between 15? to 342 but actually the increase
amounted to only about 102 or even less. This lower than expected increase
can be mainly attributed to a considerable increase in fertilizer cost (due
to the phasing out of subsidies), a rather stagnating price for paddy and
in the case of coconuts a depressed international demand. Nevertheless,
the incremental income (after labor cost) for paddy under major and minor
irrigation schemes with about Rs 500 and Rs 200 per acre respectively is
still attractive enough to induce farmers to adopt improved technology.
Similar conditions apply for coconut improvement where income increases
between Rs 1,300 and Rs 1,500 per acre for replanting, rehabilitation and
improvement of mature plantations respectively are calculated.
6.15     It has also been anticipated that about Rs 28 million (in 1979
prices) per annum would be received as taxes and duties on incremental
coconut exports assuming that 602 of the project related increase would be
exported. Due to the partial failure of this component and a reduction in
export levies, revenue generated by the export of 602 of the incremental
production is expected to reach only Rs 24 million by 1991 and is expected
to slowly increase to Rs 31 million by the year 2003.
6.16     It was further assumed that about Rs 20 million per annum would be
saved due to procurement of one-third of the incremental production of
paddy for ration at below world market price. During the project period,
Government paddy purchases from producers in the district fluctuated
between 1I and 4X with an annual average of 1.8?. Based on an incremental
production of about 56,000 tons (at full development) and total Government
purchases of about 1,000 tons, total savings would amount to US$ 40,000 (Rs
1.32 million).
3/ Wholesale Price Index during 1979 to mid-1989 as follows: 188.0,
229.5, 268.6, 283.3, 354.1, 444.7, 377.1, 366.0, 414.0, 488.7 and
525.6.



- 15 -
6.17     Incremental 0 & M cost of project facilities and services vere
expected to reach Rs 4 million at full development. The fact that not all
incremental staff had been employed resulted in a reduction in expenditure
on salaries, and a parallel reduction in vehicles, vehicle operating and
replacement cost. However, 0 & M costs for irrigation works and road
maintenance are expected to increase and total 0 & M costs are now re-
estimated at Re 8 million (Re 6.4 million in economic terms).
6.18     Impact of Proiect.  The project had a significant impact on the
agricultural sector of the district, particularly in the areas of paddy
production and to a lesser extent on coconut development. Although the
project accounted for nearly 50S of the Annual District Capital Budget, it
was still a rather small investment (with an average annual loan
disbursement of US$ 2.8 million) considering that it was meant to affect
over 270,000 ac (sown area) under paddy and 370,000 ac of coconuts.
Besides the project's impact on the grow'th of the agricultural sector, it
also influenced the overall policy approach to rural development by
providing and testing a replicable model of decentralized accelerated
development with a major thrust on the rehabilitation of the production
base and minor investments in infrastmActure and social services.
6.19     By utilizing and strengthening the existing agencies, the project
had a substantial impact on institution building especially by improving
the extension services and enhancing the monitoring and coordinating
capacities in the overall district institutional setup. As foreseen at
appraisal, field and supervisory staff of the extension service were
increased, including the provision of adequate coverage in remote areas and
the T and V system was partly introduced. During the project period, the
Project Officer successfully managed the coordination of largely autonomous
government agencies, which in itself was already a considerable
achievement. At the time of termination, the Project Office and the
District Planning Unit were amalgamated to work functionally as a more
broad-based District Planning Office with a view to undertaking district
planning and monitoring with the experience and capacities developed during
project implementation is a further example of the institution building
impact of the project.
6.20     A positive trend was observed in income distribution.  In FY79,
before the commencement of the project, 19Z of the population were below
the poverty line of Rs 3,600/year. According to the ARTI ex-post
evaluation in FY86, only 17Z were below the poverty line of Rs 7,000/year.4
This achievement, as the ARTI study concludes, is not solely attributable
to the project as the contribution of other national programs was also
substantial. However, the inflow of relatively larger allocations of funds
under the project has brought a sizeable impact on the distribution of
income, particularly in the dry zone of the district where project focus
has been significant. It is assumed that more than about 502 of the
investments received by the dry zone during the period 1979/86 came from
project provisions. In addition, the project created about 4 million man-
days of direct employment through labor-intensive works and about 2.5
million man-days of field work under the coconut development program.
4/ Adjusted upwards to reflect increase in cost of living.



- 16 -
6.21     The physical environment was little affected by the project since
it was mostly geared to rehabilitating existing facilities. however, the
construction of contour drains on about 20,000 acres contributed
substantially to improving land quality through reduced soil erosion.
Besides the electrification of 17 selected rural areas, the project did not
have any major impact on the technological environment and relied on the
proven technology which was already available within the district.
7.       Proiect Sustainability
7.01     Over three years have passed since Credit closure (June 1986) and
all facilities created *mder the directly productive components (see Part
III/5) were handed over to the respective agencies before or on that date
and all irrigation schemes are still in full working order. Staff strength
of the extension service has been maintained and even slightly increased.
However, due to the liberalization of fertilizer marketing, the fanm input
stores created under the Department of Agrarian Services are underutilized.
The state of repair of social infrastructure established under the project
remained satisfactory.
7.02     However, the absence of any water charges for the major minor
irrigation schemes makes them entirely dependent upon scarce and
fluctuating budgetary allocations for repair and maintenance which raises
doubts about their sustainability in the long run. According to the ARTI
ex-post evaluation report, the short and medium-tenm loan program
introduced under the project shows satisfactory recovery rates compared
with all island levels or pre-project levels. The overdue rate of crop
loans has been f;luctuating between 2Z and 4.8Z afte: the project
implementation period and in the case of equipment and machinery loans
stabilized at around 42 during the last project year. Together with
improved procedures, the credit component appears sustainable.
7.03     GOSL continues to support the investment undertak.n by the project
including the annual 0 & M costs for project works and services. Also, as
proven by the continuously increasing cropping intensity, the farLing
community has generally accepted the improved crop husbandry techniques
introduced by the project. The above are indications that the project will
probably maintain an acceptable level of net benefits throughout its
economic life.
8.       Bank Performance
8.01     Throughout the project cycle, the Bank's involvement has been
quite intensive. Being the first IDA-funded Integrated Rural Development
Project in Sri Lanka, initial preparation of sector proposals and
subsequent appraisals extended over a considerable period. The initial
project proposal prepared by the line agencies had to be reviewed by five
missions before it was finalized. This, together with further delays due
to the June 1977 general election and subsequent change in Government,
resulted in a rather long preparation period (Part III/2).
8.02     In general, the project was well conceived but displayed some
deficiencies which were rectified in collaboration with subsequent
supervision missions. A total of 13 supervision missions were fielded over



- 17 -
the seven-year period (Part III/8). Although most of these missions were
multipurpose missions, supervising other projects or providing preparatory
assistance, all were considered beneficial to the project and properly
timed.
8.03     Realizing, however, the difficulties implementing agencies had
with ICB procedures, the supervision missions should have taken rectifying
actions earlier. The same applies to the irrigation and water management
components where lack of sufficient technical staff in the DOI prevented a
timely implementation. The supervision missions should have advocated the
immediate use of the consultancy funds available for that purpose.
8.04     The main lessons learned from project implementation that may be
relevant to other Bank-financed projects are:
i)   project design should focus more clearly on project
organization and management especially when a multitude of
implementing agencies are involved;
ii) in the case of projects which are innovative in type and
design, greater allowances for flexibility and a longer start-
up period should be allowed for;
iii) where new procedures are to be followed by the borrower (such
as ICB), sufficient allowance for training and/or technical
assistance should be made;
iv)  greater participation of beneficiaries in project design and
implementation should be sought and encouraged to focus more
clearly on their needs and ensure their acceptance;
v)   the project's impact on beneficiaries should be measured
through clearly defined evaluation measures; and
vi)  corrective actions should be taken as soon as delays in
component implementation occur to avoid slippage of the
project as a whole.
9.       Borrower Perfor..ance
9.01     Generally, the borrower performed very well throughout the whole
project cycle. All ministries and agencies collaborated fully with the
UNDP and World Bank missions during the preparation stage and were
supportive to the supervision missions and open to suggestions for
improvement.
9.02     The borrower adopted all the agreed covenants (Part III/7), with
submission of audited accounts being the only area erperiencing
considerable delays. The main weaknesses of the borrower were their
unfamiliarity with ICB, leading to considerable delays in the procurement
of important items and its initial failure to attract sufficient technical
staff for the implementation of the irrigation and wate-r management
components.



- 18 -
9.03     Regarding project management, the borrower performed particularly
well. Even though three different project directors headed the project
during its implementation period, the difficult task of coordinating the
numerous agencies towards the common project goal was achieved. Also
financial management and monitoring of accounts was satisfactory
throughout.
9.04     Staff resources were adequately deployed and trained.  However,
the borrower's failure to employ consultants for the irrigation and water
management component, as foreseen at appraisal, has contributed to the
delays in implementation.
9.05     Experience gained by the borrower was that:
General
(a)   The model (blue print) approach to standardize replicable
IRD projects has the great advantage of better withstanding
local pressure. This rigidity may, however, hamper the
diversion of resources into areas and/or sub-components
found to be more feasible than those suggested at
appraisal.
(b)   Adequately trained staff, in sufficient numbers. have to be
recruited at an early stage of the project to provide the
required implementation capacity.
(c)   The Government should not hesitate in deploying local and
foreign consultants if expertise is not available within
its own institutions, to avoid project slippage with all
its adverse economical and financial implications.
Paddy production
(d)   In minor irrigation systems, the total number of tanks to
be rehabilitated should not exceed manpower availability.
Problems of water management practices by farmers would be
reduced if there were early participation of agencies such
as the Agrarian Service and the Agricultural Extension
Services and farmers' groups, starting from the selection
of tanks for rehabilitation. Sustainability of these
practices would be in doubt unless there is strong
leadership and high motivation of farmers.
(e)   In agricultural extension, contact farmers selected should
be progressive and dynamic and should have the ability to
communicate readily with farmers for whom they are
responsible. In areas where fortnightly visits or meetings
have not become fruitful because of lack of introduction of
new technology or extension messages, it would be more
beneficial for extension workers to conduct adaptive trials
or demonstration plots on water management practices, etc.



- 19 -
(f)   More storage facilities, distribution or sale centers for
the supply of good quality seeds of the required varieties
and fertilizers would have to be provided by government
agencies in the more remote areas (i.e., dry and semi-dry
zones) rather than in areas likely to be served by private
dealers.
Coconut development
(g)   In the replanting/underplanting scheme, farmers carried out
underplanting without removing senile and unproductive
palms, resulting in inappropriate spacing and excessive
planting density. Removal of unproductive palms should be
regarded as a prerequisite prior to the provision of other
project inputs. Farmers would be encouraged to remove
these palms during the off-season if sufficiently
renumerated for their labor, and also given planting
materials and fertilizers for the cultivation of quick
return cash crops to compensate for the temporary loss of
income.
(h)   The provision of fertilizers (in kind) in an adequate
amount in the first five years for the underplanted or new
palms, is considered necessary for high nut yields. These
proposed incentives are also applicable to coconut
rehabilitation, although cash crop cultivation should only
be encouraged if there is no overshading from existing
palms.
i)   The construction of contour drains was popular in that it
gave the farmers additional labor wages during the off-.
season. However, the need for such drains should be more
closely and objectively reviewed.
(j)   In the intercropping of coconuts, the introduction of crops
(cocoa, pepper and coffee) which are new and have long
gestation periods, has not been accepted by farmers,
particularly at locations with inadequate rainfall, on
smallholdings of less than two acres, without orocessing
facilities and know-how, and marketing outlets.
Alternative crops proposed include mango, pineapple, banana
and papaya, provided existinb palms do not provide
overshading.
(k)   There is a need for more effective streamlining of
coordination amongst agencies fin the production of
planting materials, provision of credit for fertilizer
purchase, subsidy schemes and extension activities.
10.      Project Relationship
10.01    The Bank-Borrower relationship was satisfactory throughout the
project period. A fruitful dialogue was maintained between the national
government, as principal borrower, and the implementing agencies on the one



- 20 -
side and the Bank on the other which cot,siderably helped to achieve the
project objective.
11.      Consulting and Contractual Services
11.01    The inital failure to recruit consultants to supplement the
limited manpower resources of the Irrigation Department contributed to
delays in project implementation. Subsequently (in 1981), this problem was
overcome by obtaining the services of planning consultants appointed with
the provision made available under IRDP II. These consultants were to
assist the department in the surveying, preparation of plans, designing and
elaboration of cost estimates for the irrigation schemes. The services of
these consultants were useful to the department by improving the quality of
designs and estimates and by reducing the department's workload in this
area.
11.02    In addition, also under IRDP II, consultants were provided to
assist the project management in the supervision of engineerilng works and
in accounting and management functions. With regard to the supervision of
engineering works, the consultants' services were considered useful, whilst
with regard to accounting the management, the assistance was negligible as
sufficient skills in these filds were available.
11.03    At appraisal, Rs 1.5 million were included for contracting local
research institutions and firms to undertake monitoring and evaluation
studies which were subsequently contracted to ARTI. A total of 11 studies
(annex 1) were carried out, mainly based ou field investigations and sample
surveys. Generally, the performance of ARTI was satisfactory. However,
the inexperience of staff with IRD projects, on occasions let to quality
problems. Also the required interaction between project staff and ARTI was
not always maintained.
11.04    The execution of earth and construction works was the
responsibility of the relevant implementing agencies and carried out on a
force account basis by using direc'A labour and machinery or on a contract
basis. In general, design and quality specifications were adheared to.
Only in the case of a few local contractors executing irrigation works,
sub-standard results were observed which had to be rectified later. The
reason for their poor performance was due mainly to a lack of experience
with irrigation works and especially the need for adequate compaction, as
well as their inadequate understanding of the English contract documents.
Subsequently, detailed contractor briefing and a translation of documents
in local languages brought considerable improvement.
12.      Project Documentation and Data
12.01    As noted in Part III, the borrower adhered to practically all
legal agreements. It was, however, observed that the prosecution of
defaulters as stipulated with the framwork of the agricultural credit
component was not implemented with the necessary vigour. This led to poor
recovery, especially for long overdue loans, which were given prior to the
project, in particular those obtained through MPCSs, and did not help to
improve repayment morale. Supervision missions should have paid greater
attention to this adpect.



- 21 -
12.02    The SAR provided a useful framework for the Bank and the Borrower
to implement the project and monitor its progress against the targets set.
However, the two successive one-year extensions and the high depreciation
of the Sri Lankan rupee reduced the SAR's usefulness especially in
providing a financial guideline. The usefulness of the document could have
been further increased if project organization and management had been
formulated with greater care9 more attention had been given to project
design and sufficient base-line studies carried out to focus the
agricultural development components more sharply.
12.03    In spite of the fact that the Project Officer maintained
satisfactory project implementation records and that ARTI carried out a
number of evaluation studies, not all data relevant to the preparation of
the PCR were readily available. This was mainly due to the fact that the
data were not collected and processed to serve as a basis for a broad ex-
post evaluation but rather for short-term monitoring of project results
against targets. Furthermore, it appears that the Borrower has not been
sufficiently well briefed on the format and required techniques to be used
for PCR preparation.
12.04    To facilitate PCR preparation, the Borrower should be provided
with very detailed instructions including tailor-made outlines of tables to
be prepared.



- 22 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Asia Regional Office sent Parts I and III of this PCR to GOSL
in June 1989 with the request to prepare Part II by Oc -.ber 30, 1989, but
none was received.



- 23 -
PART  III - STATISTTEAL   NPFNRMATTlM
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credit
Year of
CreditlTitle             Pu!L #mm&    Status                               Cents
Cr. 66G-CE        To ipwove irrigation       1977    Copleted        No major probles were
Tank Irrigation   water suply. reduce                                encountered.
Iodernization     seepage losses, provide
Inputs, strengthen agri-
cultural extension ser-
vices and water manage-
ment In five major tank
sch_mes.
Cr. 819-CE        To diversify about 9.500   1978    Cupleted        Encountered mjor imple-
Tree Crops        ha of arginal tea lad                             mentation problems due to
Diversificea-     into minor export crops                            inadequate budgetary allo-
tiov. I           (pepper. cardamom. cloves.                        cations. administrative
etc.). establish forests                          and political opposition.
for fuelwaod and provision
of SW, dairy cows.
Cr. 1079-CE       To iwrove productivity.   1981      Extended       Progressi.4 SAtisfac-
Rural Develop-    incme and living stan-             by one year    torily.
oent II           dards in Natale ad                  to 6/90.
Puttalsm districts through
provision of inputs and
services and stimulating
planting of coconuts and
sinor export crops.
IFAD 111-SR       To raise Inome and living  1962    Cwpleted       world Bank as executing
Rural Develop-    standards in the Sadulla                           agency.
ment Badulla      district by iqwoving sup-
District          ply of agric. inputs and
services and stimlating
cultivation of minor export
Crops.
Cr. 1363-E        To increase inac   and     1983     Extended       lnpleaentation seriously
Rural Develop-    living standards of the           by one year      affected since Decenher
ment II1          rural population in Panr            to 12/84       1984 by poor security
and Vavuniya districts by                         situation.
iqpoving supply of agric.
inputs and services. ensure
timely irrigation water dis-
tribution and enhace soCial
infrastructure (education.
health and water supply).



*  -  24  -
IFAD Ln.179 SR     Increase incomes and         1986     Progress-        World Bank as executing
Rural Develop-     employuent for rural pwor             lug without      agency.
ment Kegalle        In Kegalle District through        major problems.
integrated act of investments       Expected comple-
in agriculture (sinor export        tion date 12 /92.
crops and tea) soal Indus-
tries, rural infrastructure
and social services.
Cr. 1160-CE        Rehabilitation of 1.200      1961      Extended for    Iaplementation In several
Village Irriga-    village irrigation schemes,           third time by    districts suspended due to
tion Rehabilit.    modernization of 500 schemes.          one year to     poor security situation.
Project             Introduction of systematic                12/89.
water management progranes.
2. ProJect Timetable
Item                 Date Planned          Date Revised        Date Actual
Identification           October 1976                              December 1976
Preparation   /          August 1977
Pre-appraisal            October 1977                               April 1978
Appraisal mission                                                   August 1978
Project Brief                                                       October 1978
Loan/Credit              February 1979                              February 1949
Negotiations
Board Approval                                                     March 1979
Credit Signature                                                    April 1979
Credit Effectiveness       July 1979                                August 1979 y
Loan/Credit Closing      Deceer 1983           December 1964        December 1985
Loan/Credit Dis-           June 1984             June 1985          June 1986
burse ent Closing
) Prepared by 6OSL with assistance from IJP and World Sank missions.
p/ With retroactive finance starting January 1979.



- 25 -
Comments:
World Bank identification mission did not include 'social and
economic overheads' in the project or small rural Industries as initially
reported by GOSL. This, however, was later resolved by including components on
rural education and health, water supply, electrification and social services.
No other main issues arose during the project cycle other than those .escribed
in Part I reflecting the implementation history of the project.
3.   Credit Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbtrsements
(USS millocn)
1988   1981   1982  1983   1984   1985   1986
Appraisal estimate         3.00   8.00  12.00  16.00  20.00    -      -
Actual                     1.57   3.38   5.00   7.60   9.70  11.60  17.IC I/
Actual as % of estimate     52    42    42    48    49    58    56
:/ Including payments up to final disbursoent date.
Date of final disburseent - January 21. 1987.



4.  *Prnaet Inhplementation
Cnmaonanat                            Unit   SAR Tarcet    Achievement    Revised             wuslative    Remarks
la"4          Tarage      Cfhiaem-ent
Irrigation and water managements
-  Major schemes                            no.            9                3        no rev.             9       -
-  Minor schemes                            no.         500               263        no rev.           453       -
-  Pumps                                    no.           22                2           2                2       Discontinued due to lack
of demand.
Coconut development:
-  Rehabilitation                          acres    60,000            71.529         no rev.        79.800       Digging of contour araina
ailU removal of excess
palms.
-  Replanting                              acres     15.000           16.795         25.000         24.000       -
-  Inter-cropping                          acres     10.000            4.100         no rev.         4.415       Moatly cocoa.
-  Intercrop. demonstration plots           no.          50                30        no rev.            30       Discontinued due to fail-
ure. partly due to verie-
tae selection problems.
Home garden programme                    no.        -                -             t,00           1.4e80      Started in 1983 to com-
pensate for low success
of intercropping programme
Coconut nurseries                        no.          t0               10        no rev.             10       -
Office builaing tor CCa                 no.             1              -         no rev.              1       -
Staff CCE                               no.           98               98        no rev.             98       Consisting of 20 otficers
and 78 support staff ano
labourers.
Staff MeC                               no.          149               67            _               67       Consisting nf 33 officers
and 116 support staff and
labourers at appraisal &
6 officers ana 67 asuport
staff and labourers at
completion.
Agricultural Extension:
-AI                                         no.            3                2        no rev.             2       -
-  bMsa                                     no.           9                 4        no rev.             4       -
-  Al$                                      no.            4                3        no rev.             a       -                                     r
-  KVS5                                     no.          140              100        no rev.           147       -
-  Staff quarters                           no.          53                -           -                48       -
-  Office wxtension                         no.            2                2        no rev.             2       -I
-  Horticultural-programme                 acres          -                _          1.4S0          1.433       In support of dry sone
activities.
-  horticultural nurseries                  no.           -                                2              2      -
Agriculture Input Supply.
Seed processing centre                  no.                               1      no rev.             1       Two tons capacity.
Fertilizer stores                       no.           S0.              48             60             SI       -
-   ammottes (importeo)                  no.      50.000                -            -                            I No imports due to local
avai labi lity,.
Agricultural credit:
- Short-terms
-   Paddy production                   acres    20.000              7,300        no rev,        13.000        -
Medium-term:
s  Coconut fertilizer                  acres    50.000              2.000        no rev         30.000        -
t  4-wheel tractors                     no.          200              103    discontinued           103       Discontinuea cue to over-
lapping with other agency
programme.
2-wheel tractors                     no.          SOO           2.132          2.300          2.306       Upward revision.  including
reallocation of 4-wheel
funds.
Sprdyees                             no.        1.000              181        no rev.            198       Targets not achieved due
to low demand.



*  Lorries                             no.           20               2        no rev.             2       Discontinued in teat d-,-
to lack of demand by SPCS.
I Water pumps                          no.          -                              ISO           140       -
I  Open dug wells                      no.         -                                so            24       -
Livostoek Oevelopment:
-  veterinary ranges                       no.           5                6        no rev.             S      -
-  Clinics                                 no.           3                3        no rev.             3      -
Groundwater exploration:
-  Test wells                              no.         t8oo              as            c8                     Downward revition due to
sufficient data and 54
converted in production
wells.
-  Tube wells                              no.          -               125           200            200      Ten percent defunct.
Rural roads:
-  village access roads                   miles        120              120        no rev.           120      -
-  School access roads                    miles          8                8        no rea.             a      -
-  Tank access roads                      miles         -                -           46               46      Revision approved In 1983
to provide access to major
irrigation scnemes.
Rural water supplyt
-  Dug wells                               no.         400              400        no rev.           400      About 25S non-oporational.
Rural electrification:
-  Areas                                   no.          16               16          17               17      Additional scheme at
wi 1go05/Ouela approveo
enO 1983.
H-altht
-  Staff quarters                          no.           6                6        no rev.                     -
Offices                                no.            5                5        no rev.            5       -
-  Electrification                         no.           4                4        no rev.             4       Including standby gene-
rator for Kurunegala
mospital expansion                      no.           -                I          10               10      utspis-taln of savings
due to currency d-vs-
luation against dollar.
Educational Component:
-  Science equipment tor sec. schls.   no.             203              203        no rev.           203       -
-  Crafts training equipment for           no.          45               61        no rev.            61       -
*chool lesver programme
-  Technical education equipment           no.           2                2        no rev.             2       -
for institutes
-  Teschers quarters                       no.          40               41        no rev.            4l       -
-  Construction of science rooms           no.         140              136        no rev.           Ia7       -
-  Upgrading ot secondary scnools          no.           7               20          20               20      upward rev'Aion agreed
in 1982.
-  School roofing                          no.          -                -           26               26      The provision of perman-nt
roofing was Included In
1g82.
Project Coordination:
-  Project office                          no.           I                I        no rev.             1      Not funded under project.
-  Senior staff quarters                   no.           2                2        no rev.             2      -



- 28-
5.   ProJect Costs and Financana
Major elements in the cost estimate at appraisal were: civil works
US$6.5  million):  field  works  (USS2.3 million); <1> equipment and vehicles
US$4.2 million); crop production loans (USS4.0 million); loans for farm
equipment      and      vehicles    (USS2.9 million);    technical    assistance
(USS0.7 million),  and  engineering  and   administration   (US$2.8   million)
totalling  to  a  base project cost of US$23.3 million. Physcial contingencies
(US$1.4 million) and price contingencies (US$5.3 million) raised the total
project cost to US$30.0 million. Re-estimated project costs are summarized
below:
A. ProJect Costs
( Aiprawsal Estimate )           A ctual       )
Rs  dillon   USS mIlIion   Rs million   L m million
A. Directly eroductie
Irrig. S water managowent    124.50      8.03        194.79         8.70
Coconut development         81.75         5.27       105.75         4.82
Agricultural extension      20.00         1.29        20.04         1.00
Agricultural 1nputs         20.90         1.35        21.38         1.07
Agricultural credit        118.05         7.62       220.25         9.93
Livestock                    3.10        0.20          3.70         0.20
Grvxniuater exploration      9.65         0.62        31.00         1.44
Sub-total                 377.97       24.3P       596.91         27.16
S. Social Infrastructure
Rufrl Roads                 17.00         1.10        26.91         1.39
Rural water supply          13.35        0.86          8.45         0.41
Rural electrification       15.60         1.01        17.36         1.06
Health                       6.40         0.41        14.81         0.71
E4ucation                   14.50        0.94         17.13         0.91
Sub-total                 66.8S         4.31        84.66          4.48
C. Project Coordination     20.20         1.30        45.41         2.09
and lavestiq1tions
TOTAL MST                  465.00        30.00       726.98        33.73
_~ _                     m
pj figures in US$ derived fri the corresponding Rupee figures.
Small discrepancies are due to rounding.
Excluding imputed cost of family labour (USS0.8 million equivalent)
to be used in field works.



- 29 -
B. Project Financing
Source                Planned (SAR)                    Final
(USS million)     (S)        (USt million)    (M)
IDA                    20.0        66.7            17.1           51
60SL                    5.2        17.3            11.2           33
PB/BC                   0.8         2.7             1.7            5
Beneficiaries           4.0        13.3             3.7           11
Total               30.0         100            33.7          100
6.    Project Results
A. Direct Bene its
Indicators                       Unit    Appraisal    Estimate at        Estimate at
Estimate     Closing Date   Full Development
Farm f  ilies                     no.      170.000        160.000          180.000
Construction Jobs                m/days      4 *           3.8 a              -    1/
conut e ployent                    *        2.5 a          2.2 a            2.2 a
Intensification eployment          *         5 *           4.8 .            5.0 a
Related non-fare jobs             no.       10.000          ?                 ?
Transort ihprovement            families   20.000          27.000           27,000  V
Drinking water supply                        6.000          9.040            9,040 j/
Electricity supply                           1.933          1.758 9/         2,000
Health care                                 20,000         30.000           36,000 ]/
N/ ho further activities envisaged after project closing date.
N No assessent possible due to lack of base line data.
V  Figures Increased due to increase in population and expansion of
component after revision.
/ 300 dug wells x 15 families; 227 tube wells x 20 families as
main beneficiaries.
y Consisting of 1.262 domestic and 496 coercial users.



- 30-
B.  Econaic loact
Abalsal            PaR
Estibate
Economic Rate of Return                               32%             389
Ulnderlyina Assumption:
1. Incease In paddy cropping intensity (S)            9               14
2. Increrental paddy yield (tons/ac) II              0.12            0.11
3.  ncrqemntal poddy Production (tosS) y            4,900           S.6000
4. Incrmntal coonut yields (ruts/ac)                  408 0/          ag0 y
S. Incvinntal nut production (million)                154             107
]/ For all net harvested area.
y   nnual. at full develapment.
q/ For Whole area under coconuts.
/  For areas affected by project.
Comments:
In order to re-estimate the economic rate of return, the PCR used the
same principal assumptions as the SAR. Past expenditures, however, were
adjusted to 1989 constant prices (for details see Part I, paras 6.11 and
6.12). In the case of coconuts, full development will be reached only by year
2003 against appraisal estimates of 1991.
C. Financial impact
SAR              PcR
. .... Rs million . .. . )
Financial rate of return:                -                -
Other financial indicators
1. Coconut export taxes and              28 II            24
duties per annu
2. Rice procuroant savings               20 y            1.3 M
per  -
3. Iocrmntal 0 and N cost               4.7              8.0
for project facilities and
services per nnu
A/ Assaming that 0G of Incrnental production would be exported.
Asiumlnh that 33% of incrensetal paddy production Is procured by
MSL fur ration progrW_ at below world mar*et price.
ased o actual MSL procurement of 1.85 awerage per anon of
increomntl production.



- 31-
D. Studies
Studies            Purose as Oefined               Status          Imeact of Study
at  mrslsl
Statistical     To provide a reliable and         Copleted        Used for district
hanbook         readily available data source                     planning.
for develomnet planning in
the district.
Preparation of  To elaborate plans for the        Completed       Leading to follow-up
development     preparation of similar rural                      project.
plans           development projects in the
districts of Puttalan, Matale.
Vavunia and aoneregala.
Monitoring and  To evaluate the direct and        Completed
evaluation      indirect lepact of the project
as well as socio-econo ic
characteristies of benefi-
ciaries (by MTI).
Comments:
The ARTI has carried out a total of 11 major studies, the majority of
which, however, in the early years of the project (1980-1983), i.e. at a time
when only a minor part of the components had been implemented. As a result,
there  are  considerable  gps   in  knowledge  regarding  project  impact    on
beneficiaries.
7.   Status of Covenants
Credit                    Subject                    Deadline of       Status
Section                                               Comp lance
3.02A     Establish and maintain project coordi-           -          Coeplied
nation mad project Steering Comittee.
3.028     Project Director to be appointed.                -          Coplied
3.02C     Eployment of consultants.
3.04C     Preparation of PCR.                         June 196       Copliled
3.06      Borrower to ens..re selection of tank           -        Some difficulties were
rehabilitation schems to meet                           experienced at the
satisfactory criteria.                                  beginning but these
have been resolved.
3.01      Subsidiary agrnmnts between borrower.    July 1979          Coup led
Bank of Ceylon ad People's Bank.
3.18A     Q4arlterly Progress Reports.               One-monthly   Sometimes sutmitted
after end of   with delay.
quarter
3.106     A     1na  Progress Report                Each Merch 31  Generally complied.



- 32 -
3'X 1=4.  Annual detailed work progre due          Each Oct. 31   Usually it has been
to IDA.                                                 submitted to IOA from
November 15 to 30 of
each year.
3.10D     Detailed project evaluation plan due     Dec. 31. 1979  Some modifications
to IDA.                                                 were made to the ori-
ginal plan submitted.
Evaluation Reports
being systematically
prepared and submitted
to the Project Director
and IDA.
3.11      Borrower to recover portion of project          -        Expected to be
costs.                                                  recovered over
the project period.
4.018     Audited accounts/credit reports due to IDA no            Often received with
later than six months after end of each FY.             considerable delay.
8.   Use of Bank Resources
Stage of       Nonth/    No. of    Days in    Specialization        Performance      Types of
Project         "tear     Persons    Field        Represented         R Qating       Problems
Cycle              /         ?/                                       Status ./
Through         12/76        6          25          E.N.C.A.I            -              -
appraisal        6/77        3           6            E.A.?              -
3/78       6          27           E,A,C,Cr            -              -
9/78       2          14            E.C                -              -
1/79       2 *        23            E.A                -              -
Supervision      9/79  y    4           30            E,.NC              I              T
7/80  /    3 *         9            A.E.C              2            FEN,T
12/80        1        10              E                2            F.M.T
6/81       1 *        10              E                2             F.T
11/81       1           7              A                2              T
1/82       4 *         7            E.A.C              2             F.T
9/82       3           5            E.A.C              2             T.N
7/83       3 *        20            E.A.C              2             T.H
3/84       3 *        15            E.A.C              2             T.N
12/84       2 *        11             A.C               2             T.N
3/85       1 *        19              E                2             T.N
12/85       2 *        18             E.C               2              -
3/86       3 *                      E.A.C              2              -
j/ Date of return to headquarters.
? Nultiple purpose missions marked (*).
/E 3- Economist. N a Nonitoring and Evaluation Specialist. C - Civil Engineer.
A - Agronmist. I a Rutral Industries Specialist. Cr. - Credit Specialist.
I 1 = Problem-free or minor problems. 2 = Noderate problems. 3 = Mjor problems.
' F = Financial. N aManagerial. T a Technical. P - Political. 0 a Other.



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Cropued P2ddv Area t'0001 and Croupina tntensity tXI
SAR                                              PCR
FutWure Without          FtreWit                 Future Without            Future With
Proiect at full         Proiect at Full          PrP1ect at full          Pro1eet at Full
Development             Deyseloment              Deve1o0mgnt              Develoome"QIt
(1987)                  (1987)                    (1989)                  (1989)
Maior Irrioation Scheme
MAha (Irrigated)                             24                        24                       28                       34
Yala (Irrigated)                             15                        19                       14                       20
Maior Irrigation Schemes
Maha (Irrigated)                             67                        Si                       60                       74              WA
Vala (Irrigated)                             80                        43                       29                      40
flainfed 
dnhb                                         71                        66                       70                       68
Va a                                         41                        39                       34                       34
Net irrigated area                          100                       110                      124                      130
Total cropped area                          248                       272                      235                      270
(gross sown area)
As%&urdumized area                          175                       18U                      205                     210
(net Cultivated area)
Cropping intensity                          142                       151                      115                     129
-4
a,



KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC'i (Cr.B9i-CE)
Credit Oisbursement by Particioatino Banks
(Rs '000)
Catn40rv             Banks             1980           JIS]            V92n           1S&             1984           9Ji           June ISO6
qf Loan                            maQ  Amount   Nc,  Amount   N2   Amount  ftN    Amount   f,  Amount  UN    Amount   No.  Auurt
Cultivation   People's Bank    1.074  2.322  1.773  4.317  1.079  3.186  1.201  3.794  1.275  4.764  1.104  3.899    418  1.828
Loan  j/       Bank of Ceylon   2.309  3.169  2.031  4.132  2.355  4.734  2.861  6.157  4.194  9.533  2.507  9.S32    474  2.175
Coconut .17    People's Banti       601  1.874    251  1.239    134  1.107          83    825    408  3.374    178  1.308          41    249
Fertilizer    Bank of Ceylon        685  1.779    733  1,737    176   .l111    105  1.016    329  2,546    418  2.315              32    314
4-wheel  2/   People's Sank          59  7.049        2    263    -        -          -      -            -           -       -          -
tractors       Sank of Ceylon        42  2.361    -         -      -          -       -                   -       -       -        -     -
2-wheel        People's Bank        194  4.389       z3    578      31    800    123  3.318    268  9.113    281  9.962    101  3.094
tractors       Sank of Ceylon       131  4.33S       94  2.447      93  2.19O    232  6.183    422 14.206    241  8.309    149  S.986
Sprayers       People's Bank          6       6       5       4       1      0      52    101       38     58      42      69       1      0        11
,J/          Bank of Ceylon        42      57       7       4      16     19      29      53      22     36      Is      24      17     29       0a
Lorries for   People's Bank           2    443    -         -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -        _     _
UPCS   4/      Oank of Ceylon       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       _      _       _       _        _     _
Water  j/      People's Bank        -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -        12     61       9      54       6     36
Pumps          Bahk of Ceylon           -       -       -       -      -       -           -        26    137      29    193       58    383
Open dug       People's bank        -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -         9    130       3      28       2     33
wells   ji    Bank ot Ceylon        -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -         5     9O       3      75       2      25
I/ Can Include repisater lodns by same farmers.
,/  Discontinued due to duplication with other programmes and inappropriate use of tractors.
.Balance allocated to 2-wheel tractors.
I/ Initially not included in project. World San% approval in early 1980.
4J D1icontinued due to inappropriate use of lorries.
f/  Approved in late 1983. Pumps mainly used for vegetable irrigation. 
J/  Approved in late 1983. wells mostly for vegetable Irrigation in ary zone.



TabLe 3
- 35-                                       -
SRI LAC
KURMNE6AL RURAL OEVELO3PWET PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Annual Credit Disbursewnt by Participating Banks
(in Rs'000 - in US$'000)
Loan                                                           June
Category      1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    T986   Total
Crops (Rs)    9.147  11.426  10.140  11.795  20.220  17.056   4.568  84.352
Crops (US$)      554    595     487     502      796     629     163   3.726
Vehicles/Equipment
RUpees       18.642   3.299   3.080   9.636  23.833  18.717  10.489  87.716
US$ y         1.130     172     149     411     938      691     375   3.866
Total (Rs)   27.789  14.725  13.220  21.451  44.053  35.773  15.057 172.068
(USS) Il 1.684     767     636     913   1.734   1.320      538   7.592
3 At following conversion rates for US$1: ia90 - Rsl6.5; 1981 - RsI9.2;
1982 - Rs20.8; 1983 - Rs23.5; 1984 - Rs25.4; 1985 - Rs27.1; 1986 - Rs28.0.



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Paddy Under Major Irrigation - Financial Budget
(Rs/acre)
Maha Season                                                                               Yata Season
Cr......       ..ear  ....Crop veer
Existing     New                                                                        Existing     New
TechnoogY Technology Incrementat                                                        Technology Technology Incrementat
t to 25    I to 25      1 to 25                                                         1to  2       to 25      1 to;25 
Revenue                           8,100.00   9,000.00      900.01                       Revenue                            7,200.00   8,100.00      900.00
InpTta                                          253 50                                    Seeds                            2;i4 7 243
Ures                                                                   s~~~550Ue                                             ccw          T9
MixUre                         S, 27.50     374.80       9651                           Nixture ab  Cs, .29  5,u.                                6
eL ofast                         T50.00           *060   50.                  L                   as      
of sneltaneou50.0s15600:                         go                             trschelleneos
But focks                         7000       7ee00                                             kleneous                                              0
Sub Total Labor                   2;37170   2i62.0 0         0253.50                    Sub-Totat Lrnputs                  2,184.70   2,432.70      248.00
INCOSE  (Before Labor Costs)      5,728.29  6,374.80       646.51                       INCOME (Before Labor Costs)        5,015.29   5,667.30      652.00
Labor                                                                                   Labor
Land  reparain                42 0       4,no                                        Land prprat I on
Transa   ingf B 14 roadcast                    0:Trans letrins/Boadcast                                                   A           3:
'= tinq/.Th                                                                       SrvuteshTnrhng
Sub-Total Labor                    2,070.00   2,160.00      90.... jj                    SbTotal Labor                                         --20-000-,10.006.0
INCOME (After Labor Costs)        3,658.30   4,214.80      556.51                        INCOME (After Labor Costs)        2,975.'30   3,567.30     592 .00



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Paddy Under Minor Irrigation - Financial Budget
(Rs/acre)
Maha Season                                                                                   YaLa Season
Crop year                                                                          Crop year
................................                                                  .............................................. ............... 
Exist f~~~3~~ TeoLso                                         insy  Teci~~~~togy (ncrExistngtNe
T=echog t = togy Incremental                                                       Teehnology Te =,logy tnrecntat
.......   ... .......   .......... .                                                            . . .....  ..... .... ....  
1 to 25    i to 2S5  i to 2S                       1 to                               25 =  1 to         1 to 25
tmaoamaz   anamto =     1 to25 =                                                              =222   2    *as
Revenue                            6,750.00   7,200.00      450.00                  Revenue                           5,400.00   5,850.00      450.00
1%:ft ~~~~~~~~0.0Input
Ores                                            2.00       3s 
mixture Y9                                                                         MIxture  I
top$ress                                                                                                                                     50 mix  ix0
greeeas                       0.        00          50                         9     meas                          ,n        c            *.
A rochiemic as                                                                      Aroca C a
Mt?cetaeos:83                              ;88: 8                                 NStelanleous                      6:
ktsletlaecu  0 pg gg ts..t.ane.. 70 .     .... ... .     ...........                                     .  . .....     ..
Sub-Totat Inputs                   2,184.70   2i382.70      198.00                  Sub-Totat Inputs                   1,971.00   2,169.00      198.00
IICOE (Before Labor Costs)        4,565.30   4,817.29      252.00                   INCOME (tefore Labor Costs)        3,429.00   3,681.00     252.00
lAbo                                                                                Labor                                L2.0 
Land preparatIon        420.00     420.00                                  Land prepcation                       :R     4
m  Bh        Iroadeast           6'8 42g.g                                         Trans m tting/Sroadcast              I                 30.0
~ro~1u~~1                    7~55ing    93o:55                                     tir;N   shino              . .A 0.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...                                                                                     .........   ........ i
Sut*Totat Labor                    i,i50.00   2,0;0.00      60.00                   Sub-Total Labor                    1,470.00   1,500.00       30.00
INCOME (After Labor Costs)        2,615.30   2,807.30      192.00                   INCOME (,"ter Labor Costs)         1,959.00   2,181.00      222.00
.A
F~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Paddy Under Rainfed Conditions - FinanciaL Budget
(Rs/acre)
Maha Season                                                                              YaLa Season
Crop year
Crop  year........                                                                      ..... ...
..e................................                                                ESt
TechnolO'gY Tchnol@g tnremmwntai.
Technology Te= tlogy Incrementat    -                                              .... .          .    ...... n,  ,,tG0
Ito 25   1 to 25      1~o3 to 25   1 to 25    D                                                               D
Revwel                           4,"0.00  4,950.00                                4Revemt                           4500.00  4,500-00
labptsl Irut                     i;8   0i;970SftMtIvts18i5    18?S
eetds                                                                                 i L  238.00  ree                          ;sLti2
Urea                                       jjtSit~re                                                                j:
e s t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qwe ,l   -l  ,                            aes                    
B.il locks  T~~~~~~~S:88    700:88                            Bid l~11,11ocks                  788:88    78:33
Sub-totat Iarts                  1; .00   1,89 .0.0        .                       Sub-Total Irts                   1,827.50  1,827.50
INCO  (Befoe Labor Costs)        3,054.00  3,054.00           -                    IsCIE (Before Labor Costs)       2,672.50  2.672.50
Labior                                                                             Labor                              4          C~~
Lmi   trW oadcBst                                                                  lrrEan4itfngBradat
Cram                                                                                                            600lra*a
Sub-to:at Labor                  1,470.00   1,470.00                               SLib-lotel LaOW                  1,440.00   1,440.00                             -
INCOME (After Labor Costs)       1,584.00   1,584.00          .                    INCO4E (Atter Labor CoSts)       1.232.50   1,232.50a



39 -                              TABLE  I
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Paddy Producton (tons)
WITH PROJECT
Year     Major Irrigation       Minor Irrioation       Rainfed        Total
1979          32,710                  70,280            75,850       175F,900
1980          39,045                  75,805            81,700       196,550
1981          46,290                  77,665            88,980       212,935
1982          42,785                 85,405             83,095       211,285
1983          62,980                  79,150            85,000       227,130
1984          58,225                 110,675            84,335       253,235
1985          67,740                 126,085            83,805       277,630
1986          78,920                 130,585            85,415       294,920
1987/88       82,335                 134,190            87,930       304,355
WITHOUT PROJECT
1987/88       60,290                 96,390             91,690       248,370



40-                                Table 8
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Coconut Development - Area Improvement
(Cumulative)
* . .  . Area (acres) . . . .  .  .  .   .
Replanting/     Rehabilitation      Increased       Total
Underplanting                       Productivity
of matured
plantation
With project:
-  1979                2,300             8,900              -          11,200
-  1980                5,400            26,900             5,900       38,200
-  1981                8,400            45,800            9,620        63,820
-  1982               12,400            59,700            11,890       83,990
-  1983               13,900            64,800            14,880       93,580
-  1984               16,500            70,000           20,780       107,280
-  1985               21,200            75,800           24,880       121,880
-  1986               24,000            79,800            24,880      128,680



Table 9
-41 -
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Coconut Rehabilitation - Financial Budget
(Rslacre)
Crop year
.............................  ....................................................._. .........
New Technology
............... .........................  .............................. .. ......  i
1      2        3       4       5       6    7 to 9  10 to25
= - 3sw222322222s 22223=222=2 253 = =2=2=  =23= _=
Revenue                          3,200.0 3,200.0 4,000.0 4,000.0 4,200.0 4,400.0 4,600.0  4,600.0
Ifplts
"Rert1ltnizesir               512:0  '12  0   16.:8   140.0  168.0  224.0  252$4   2452:
Sub-Total Inrputs                  156.0  234.0   226.0   140.0   168.0  224.0  252.0   292.0
INCOGE (Before Labor Costs)      3,044.0 2,966.0 3,774.0 3,860.0 4,032.0 4,176.0 4,348.0  4,308.0
Labor
Cut Drains                      800.0 1,200.0 1,200.0        -       -                        -
Rmove palms                      40.Q     0:0   120.0                                      80
Dig hotle/ptanting                      I 1.0  1 .   0       *       -       -       -     40.U
malntenance                      4 .0    4.               0        000 40040    
Harvest/tasport                 32 .0  400.0  40S 40S 0   4            i80  0 400  48000 0 4800
SubrTotal Labor                  1,280.0 1,880.0 1,960.0  880.0   880.0  880.0  880.0  1,000.0
INCOME (After Labor Costs)       1,764.0 1,086.0 1,814.0 2,980.0 3,152.0 3,296.0 3,468.0  3,308.0



-  42  -                                         Table 10
-SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Coconut (Mature Plantations) - Financial Budget
(Rs/acre)
Crop year
............ .. .... ......    .. .............. .......
New Technotogy
.   .......................................... ... .... ... .. .........
1      2       3        4       5       6       7   8 to 25
3       UWU32==Mm gU3  =S=   =Man= =          U3823 U#     U* =
Revenue                          3,000.0 3,000.0 3,000.0 3,400.0 4,000.0 4,400.0 4,800.0 5,000.0
Fertilizer                       70.0   84.0  126.0  140.0   196.0  224.0  224.0  224.0
-- ..... ...Z  ...;  .. ...... . ...... ....... .......... ... .... ... .... ...
Stb-Total Inputs                    70.0   84.0  126.0   140.0   196.0  224.0  224.0  224.0
INCOME (Before Labor Costs)      2,930.0 2,916.0 2,874.0 3,260.0 3,804.0 4,176.0 4,576.0 4,776.0
Labor
Maintenance                              80.    80.    120.0   60.0  200.0  200.0  488.8
Harvest/transport               320 8   4100.0  480.0   480.0            800 480.           .
...... ........ ..... .. ....... ..... ... .... .. . ... .... . ......
Sub-Total Labor                    400.0  480.0  560.0  600.0  640.0  680.0  680.0  680.0
INCOME (After Labor Costs)       2,530.0 2,436.0 2,314.0 2,660.0 3,164.0 3,496.0 3,896.0 4,096.0



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
Coconut Replanting/Underplanting - Financial Budget
(Rs/acre)
................................................................................... m     ....................................... .........................................
s       2       3       4       5       o    7 te        9      1o    1tt  O1213toto       IS       16 ts       17            t,a@  2       2)      22      23    21 to 23
-.                                                      ....ia.....iW...S  a  .            .fl    .....        ...  ..           ....... w.....  i   ..W..w
o_                       *~~~~~~~,2co.e01.3.  5,200.0 ,200.0 1,210A. 1,20.0 1,600.0 1,600.0 1,700.0  1,600.0  1,600.0 2,00e.0 2,000.0 2,100.0 2300.0 z,see.o02,7te.0 2,toe.e 3,ee.0 3,200.0  3,400.e
9  '8   't9i    8D: e      U ts  8   ts6.e       1        9 6ce   te6196 .96.0   1s6.0    196.0  to96.    196.0  .   19.i   196.0  196.0i  1s.i  1S96    tss.i   196.i
SsTota l   ats                      730.   26.0  i262.   246.0   t96.0  196.0   196.   96.0   1.    196.    196.0  195.0   19.   196O.0  196.0   16.   196.0   196.0  196.   19e.0   1is.0o
<(Ser. LOW  Casts)          462.0  902.0   W32.6 s    64.0 1,001.0 t.006.0 I,601.0 1,604.0 1t5ft.0  1,406.0  1,496.0 1,804.0 1,696.0 1,901.0 2,1O6.0 2,396.0 2,59.0 2,69.0 2,9.0 3,096.0  3,296.0
60.0   40.0                                  .        .        .       .       .       .       .        .       .
i.e...   m.0 8t o 8~  ill1Ab    o8  3o i   ED.e  llo i   io e   B iNS    NS.         IN: 8          i 8  e   8 i... ...  i. .     ...   .....     i. .    . o      i o   Se
Stdl-Totat Lder                   t,est.8   60.0                   "iW  -.iw. o.  2.0 'w.; ";W.; ";W.    eeo.o    Zo.; ";W.;   ae.                  .0   ne.o   no.0   no.o   no.e   n.o    *2.0    a.
sum  tatter Ldr C                  -O616.0   242.0   29A   39.0   44A.0   41K.0 1,2.0 1.101.0   90.o   604.0    766.0 1,1".0 1,124.0  ,29.0 1,396               .0 1,9  .0 1,     M.0 1 .01.0 2,34..  2,48.0
fe
I-



TabLe 12
- 44 -
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 891-CE)
Economic Price Derivaclon for Paddy and Fertilizer
PADDY:
World market price  (USS/ton)  1/                                 293 ZJ
Quality adjustment  (%)                                            80
World market equivalent of Sri Lankan product (US$)              234.4
Freight and insurarice (USS)                                     + 20
C.i.f. Colombo  (US$/ton)                                        254.4
(Rs/ton)  3/                                 8,395.2
Port handling, storage, losses and wholesale margin            + 750.0
Transport (mill to port)                                       + 150.0
Ex-mill price                                                  9,295.2
Processing as nutrient ratio  (X)                                  67
Processing cost less by-product value                            - 20
Mill-gate price of paddy equivalent                            6,214.4
Transport to/from farm                                           - 75
Economic farm-gate price                                       6,139.4
FERTILIZER:
N          TSP          MOP
World market price  (US$/ton)  1/            179.4 4/   163.0 I/    95.7 6/
Quality adjustment  (%)                       100          100         100
World market equivalent of Sri Lankan        179.4        163.0        95.7
product (US$)
Freight and insurance (USS)                   + 35         + 40        + 40
C.i.f. Colombo  (USS/ton)                    214.4        203.0       137.7
(Rs/ton)  3/              7,075.2     6,699.0      4,478.1
Port handling, storage losses and            + 990       + 990        + 990
wholesale margin
Transport (port to wholesaler)               + 200        + 200       + 200
Wholesale price                            8,265.2      7,889.0     5,668.1
Transport to/from farm                        + 75         + 75        + 75
Economic farm-gate price                   8,340.2      7,964.0     5,743.1
1j World Bank's Commodity Price Forecast, October 1988.
2/ Thai milled rice 5% broken, f.o.b. Bangkok.
I/ At an exchange rate of USS1 * Rs33.
4/ Bagged f.o.b. N.W. Europe.
5/ Triple Superphosphate, Bulk, f.o.b. U.S. Gulf.
{I Potassium Cloride, Bulk, f.o.b. Vancouver.



- 45 -                          Table 13
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 891-CE)
Economic Price Derivation for Coconut
1995
(US$/ton)
World Market prices in constant 1989 prices  1/                      791
Bulk freight and insurance                                          - 25
F.o.b. value Colombo                                                 766
(Rs/ton)
Equivalent value in constant Rupees  2/                           25,278
Port handling, storage, losses, wholesale costs                    - 762
and margin (3%)
Processing                                                       - 1,000
Less:  value by-products  3/                                     + 2,750
Sub-total value in-store oil                                      26,266
Equivalent value per nut  4/                                        3.28
Redrying, shrinkage, traders' margin and transport (15%)          - 0.49
Economic farm-gate price per nut                                    2.79
_____________________________
1  IBRO commodity price forecasts, October, 1988.
2/ At official exchange rate of Rs33 per US$.
3/ Assuming 1 ton of oil gives 0.5 ton of poonac at Rs5,000/ton.
4/ Assuming 8,000 nuts per one metric ton of oil.



SRI LNAKA
Kururegala Rura,Oe,velompent Project
Economic Analysis
RS.NII! "ons
..... ...... ........................................................................................................................................................................
1979    1980    1981      1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
.........    ............... .................................................................................................................... .................................................................................................
neremental benefits
...... ......... ..
CWocntvalue of production                                5. 0                     $                         3743       93      163      2.3 8   234. 8    43 8   341 8   343 8        I
gift-totalvtue of production                   551     10.       62:5   2414:      t:     ll                31743.     4 ~ 4~              8 33
Sub-total value of production                  SS.1   107.3    62.5   241.4   369.2   451.5   487.4   517 4   543.1   560.5  57.S   578.4   586.5   594.8   600.8   607.5   614.4
ncremental costs
................
Investment costs                     6':j   14A51    2A         9181    81'    78.4    68.          II$..
Coconut prod. costs                              4              S 1146    47    43.5 30                   55.0    55.3    56.9    61.4    62.3 1685           :1 6.     68.1    68.8    69.0
$ porod. costs                             0.0       .1    19.1        3.6    54.3        9    84 6    84.6    84.6    84.6    84.6    84.6           6.4    84 64.6             .4        6
ts                                                                  31      '6:4      6:4    ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~6.4  6.4  6.4  6.4  6.4              6.4      6     .464,
St-total incrementst costs           67.9   184.8   197.3   162.4   132.6   176.1   192.9   202.4   i46.0   146.3   147.8   is2.4   i53.3   is6.5   157.8   iS9i  i  s9.7   160.0
ncremntal net benefits
.......................
Net benefits                         *67.9  -129.8   -90.0  -100.0   108.8   193.2   258.7   285.1   371.4   396.8   412.7   419.2   425.2   430.0   437.0   441.7   447.8   454.4
22:223.  .......   a:.:..: a:::::: .......     23:.... 2822... =::z: ==== :=      2222:s : 222Zs 3  82:= 2:::.:: 2:2S2:  :2::::: ;=2:2 :222:83 # umsa
1997    1993    1999    7000    2001    2002    2003
.................................................... ..................................................................: 0W
;ncrementat cenefits                                                                                                                                                                                    I
...................
tocenut value of production         343                                 29                                              Internat Rates of Return of Iet Streams
Paddy value of productionn            i          ':s R:         91a      418 30           RHntrt Rates of2 Return of2 Net :Sream
.__._.......    ..,.....    .......     ........._. .......   ......... .... .......--wS-w-=2=-ttS=|==
5th-total vaLue of production   621.6   627.2   632.2   635.6   638.8   641.5   642.6                                   NtOT                       38.04X
Incrementat costs
. .................. ...
Investoent costs                                          .                                    .                                           SWITCHING VALUES AT 10X
Coconut prod. costs                 68.4    69.6    69.9       70.1    70.2    70.4    70.5
P 1.costs              84.6    84.6    84.6       84.6    84.6    84.6    84.6
prod. cStS                            6.4      6.4      6.4      6.4      6.4      6.4      6.4                                                 APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STREAM                    VALUE         VALUE          CHANCS
Sth-total incrementsl costs         159.4   160.6   160.8           161.0   161.2   161.3   161.4                       BlOT                   3,173 .16     1SS.06a
Incremental net beNnefits
incroomtat net benefits                                                                   ~~~~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~CTOT  1,426.09  3,173.16  122.5i%
Net benefits                       462.3   466.7   471.4    474.6   477.6   480.2   481.2
Met Present Value at OCC 1X% * 1.747.1
Internal Rate of Return a  8.1%
Coupn Equivalent Rate of Return a 26%
-4



ANNEX 1
- 47 -
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 891-CE)
LIST OF REPORTS/STUDIES
ARTI    :       Evaluation Plan for the Kurunegala Rural Development
Project - July 1980
ARTI    :       Periodic Rural Markets in the Kurunegala District -
March 1981
ARTI    :       Kurunegala District Rural Development Project - An Analysis
of the Pre-Project Situation
ARTI    :       Kurunegala District - Training and Visit System of Extension
- 1981
ARTI    :       Agricultural Credit Schemes under the Kurunegala Rural
Development Project - An Evaluation, November 1981
ARTI    :       Viability and Replicability of Project Management - 1982
ARTI    :       Kurunegala District Integrated Rural Development Project -
A Critical Analysis of Project Formulation - March 1983
ARTI    :       Intercropping of Coconut Lands with Minor Export Crops -
March 1983
ARTI    :      A Process Evaluation of Coconut Cultivation in the
Kurunegala District - December 1984
ARTI    :       Evaluation of the Irrigation and Water Management
Component - September 1986
ARTI    :       Kurunegala Integrated Rural Development Project - Ex-Post
Evaluation - January 1988



- 48 -
t .~~~~~
XURUNEtlUA RAL DlCVELOPZT nOiCST
(Credlt 891-CS)
STAFF I,NPUT
nul az   im    an kl nu ma ml nu nu  an Ma fl?
PreappraLsal       22.8   16.5       .3       -       -       -       -       -                                   3 _  .  .    9.3
Appratal              -   34.2   49.0         -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -   62.2
Negotiation           -       -    8.4        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -    8.4
Supervision           -       -    2.8   27.2   14.9    6.6   10.9    9.8    8.2    6.8               -    1.1  100.6
Other                 .2     .1      .4    1.2        -       -       -      .4       -       -       -       -    2.2
TOTAL *            22.9   50.7   61.0   38.4   14.9    6.8   10.9   10.2    8.2            8.6       .0    1.1  234.2
Excludes tLme spent by Young ProtessiOna1.



79045'                          SRI LANKA        80000                                                8015S
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                   Bay of Bengal
PHYSICAL FEATURES AND PRINCIPAL LAND USE                                                                                                    1 :
S                 ~~~ANURAHAPURAa  avv
Rubber                                                                                                    (MPJOADOAPURA  101  UL
Forest Reserves
1\1 Coconuts                                                                                                          / R   -' 
Paddy Land                              \                                                                        \...mr  )I    A
Chena and other usoge                                                                                      t      )  t
Agro-Climotic Regions                         )          k" .500000t\)
0             1 0                                                                                                          -
MILES
-7545'                PTA k                                                                                                                                        15
703Q' ~       ~          0
-7'30                                  7ha4 *30! qX
INDIAN OCEAN
15,~~~~o Jsf cOLVO.BO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~m. rwhn fheep.pe;t~ed hy thEG
\~~~~~~~~~h \oeeh  o_ the,odo, onfas( 
.~~~~~~~~~~~h ,eero to whc hv      it/s ,ttel ohodi
W&O 9&*,.                                        ~ ~~~~KEGALLA
o,       fo roMc of is.  t-Jdw.,
I         \                         ~~~~80000'                                            80jt '                                              80?30'  t 



7945'                      SRI              80L00                                           80ANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                      -           .
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTUREw
POPULATlOIC  Populaion Density per Square Mile) }         .
Less than 450                                                                ,
*       450                   _                 ,      o - 900                        ANURADHAPURA            r
Above 900
HEALTH FACILMES.
O1    General Hospital
Dishict Hospitals                                            eu-, ye
@  Peripheral Unitsf                                     A, uwIAA
,      Rural Hospitols
O     Other Health Facilities
-b  Areas of Deficient Drinking Water Supply
-. -   District Boundaries
- - - -  Electorial Boundaries                                                                                                   80 30
K!NGlRFt'A
W_~~~~~W
7015~~~~~
JOea-eeUAr                                                                                                                                        7- 301
*eeti tn W,,, rJ ,Oep, ef VH
ATIO                             J'              80015' KAN                                   DY            b
INDIAN GCEAr; 0              R;                                             
-7 5'   , 
/Xw                     /            :                          \ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~KEGEALA
do *n  rn bbqi      tI                                                :J                                                                           m 
d7nerh*,enbpawror In ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ . 3:~~09



79"45'                                           80000                                                80015 
SRI LANKAJJI
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAJOR IRRIGATION WORKS AND                                                                          /                      oLJ sVAWUNA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION -
TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                   ANURADHAPJRA                A;5hUrW0A L r
132KV                                                                      ANURADHA,R
66KV
33KV                                                                                                        i     =   r In
I IKV                                                                       \n<AT   45 r    '. 
----  33KV lines Under Construction
SUBSTATIONS                                            CGALGAMU           W            uosiyernb.lrgancs,o                  5
*      Substations
Grid Substations                                                                                                <.,       (.._rses^u
PROPOSED WORKS:                                                                       /                         TF^ATSF  
-8000                      A      Villiages to be Electrified                                     \nd,c 
< @  Moior irrigation tonks Rehabilitation                    GalU              \          )           Ocean
\                         ~~~~~~~~Roadst                                                 i  Xre                    r           ,  
\               S  e  e ~~~~Railways                            1                                      r                 - 7i803
\              -    -  ~~~~~~~District Boundories          /      >    \rbmd                        
l ---- ~~~~~Electorial Boundories                                        *                                7\ sls as/ 
\        O              ~~       ~       ~~~~10  20  )D\                       /X                     y/                       x
KILOMTERS                 . -                            l      l     t   Tnk
\ A                 ~~~~~~MILES            .                  ) \X(//                                                         ~/1
INDIAN  OCEAN                          .  
-7o15 . j E:i (i)HIRIPITIYA )7r15r
W27sektsm ,hf b,                                                                                           (6\  B C  (AMUNUGEDERAItAIALANWATTE A
csse'eiw,csfthesbr of  j\                                    /                                           (7HINDAGOLLA. MEEGALLA & GALAPITAMULLA                     z
d15,I,tC*,5080is  d.    et />/PANAGAMUWN/OGADALPOLA                                                                                                    ./               _
bsesaue shows son this *    t.                                                                                KLPTY
dos st edfo, tso fthepso )of                                                                               to) DUNUKEWATTE_
jrlt Bask sdw /gewis. #M5ts I  yw,   
cAp7030c'       0tsrss.    \t7dovoo                                                   *t               80';15                          51          8003000            D



7a, 45'                                           W E001                                              80"15         t 
SRI LANKA                                                             8015'
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                              .
TRANSPORT NErWORK                                                                                                    }v'vuue
PROPOSED PROJECT ROADS                                          -                ANURADHAPU
Grovel Surfoced Roads            "ll,
EXISTING ROADS                              i..
Class A                                   GALGAMUWA               u 
Class B                                 I                           o-A
Class C   Metal and Tarred                          - G   G.
-aeo-  -                              Class C   Gravel                        (d c l n   -VKrs . 
---- Class D   Metal and Tarred                                                                             ecn
*..   Class D   Gravel
Rarlways                                                                                                              8;0
-    -  District Boundories                                                                    /
I- ----   Electoriol Boundories       ._                            e /
7045.          PUTF     LAM    ER .C     SS        >, *.                                   -                          )
wzo45^ )vo(>ft\' -I
hilavr          Bflriy    0. W                     PANt/U  TW iW                                   Y     HU
734'                  PUTALM                                                                             '                                                       745
INDI1AN OCEAN                                                                                     7, k9/  _%
k.    ~ ~    IArkkln   II.nan                lseA  Nin
PA                                       RWARAG' GHAV S  U            RACl h                        W
_ 730 1'                                                                                                                                                           7030  ilh    'i  -  u    S  
J If                             f        /t                r>EuI Fiun,Wlbirma  ~     ~     ~~~~ YMMhee: vre.en,n Ma0l~y      5
1/   \\&                     -/    /            '           9  K_  Ubie                 SCHr OtVILLAG   ACCESS  .m Si R(j .-
01 \\t    /   /              /                A             ihb          $A~9luo           e gr_
7015'                                                                                                        Eh-          Siy-bWq-B001  5>
\\ \ \t jb/ (3) sibW31a Kcsb @ A a> sble SohOd  GII_
;   0  \i      or;s/80X00                             t         03 Aew kgl_ -iVa              8 AV8 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ell. K                CS:-



