Document of
The World Pank                    EaL go 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2492-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 19, 1979
This document has a restricted distbution and may be used by recipients only in tbe performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dsnk authorIzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =   Rs 15.5
Rs I                 US$0.065
Rs I million         US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 bushel (bu) of paddy        =   45 lb
1 acre (ac)                   =   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                   =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq. mi)        =   640 ac (259 ha)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARTI      -    Agrarian Research and Training Institute
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
M          -    Million
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
T&V       -    Training and Visit system of agriculture extension
GLOSSARY
chena           -    slash and burn or "shifting" agriculture
district        -    the principal administrative unit in the country.
There are 24 districts in Sri Lanka.
ganga           -    major river
maha            -    northeast monsoon season (October to January)
paddy           -    unhusked rice
tank            -    reservoir for local rainwater storage
yala            -    southwest monsoon season (March to June)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Amount:                   US$20.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:      The project aims to assist in developing the District
of Kurunegala in an integrated manner for purposes of
raising productivity, employment, incomes and living
standards and to develop a replicable model for rural
development for other districts in Sri Lanka. The
project would provide for rehabilitation of existing
irrigation schemes accompanied by improved water
management practices to fully exploit the irriga-
tion potential, and for programs for replanting/
underplanting, intercropping and fertililizing of
smallholder coconut plantations. The project would
also strengthen agricultural extension services,
improve the supply of input services such as fer-
tilizer distribution and seeds supplies, and lay the
foundation for a viable agriculture credit system.
These directly productive investments would be com-
plemented by investments in transportation, health,
education, water supply and rural electrification.
The project would benefit about 100,000 farm families
directly and about 50,000 indirectly, two-thirds of
these families being in the poverty target group.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/
US$ Million Equivalent
Component                       Local  Foreign  Total
A. Directly Productive
Components
Irrigation and Water
Management                6.03    2.00    8.03
Coconut Development          3.93    1.35    5.28
Agricultural Extension       0.78    0.51    1.29
Agricultural Inputs          0.68    0.67    1.35
Agricultural Credit          2.19    5.42    7.61
Livestock                    0.06    0.14    0.20
Groundwater Exploration    0.17    0.45    0.62
Subtotal              13.84   10.54   24.38
B. Social Infrastructure
Rural Roads                  0.72    0.38    1.10
Rural Water Supply           0.65    0.21    0.86
Rural Electrification        0.74    0.27    1.01
Health                       0.15    0.26    0.41
Education                    0.49    0.45    0.94
Subtotal               2.75    1.57    4.32
C. Project Coordination
and Investigations         0.66    0.64    1.30
Total Cost 2/        17.25   12.75   30.00
Financing Plan:                                           US$ Million Equivalent
Local Foreign Total
IDA                             7.25   12.75   20.00
Government                      5.19      -       5.19
People's Bank and
Bank of Ceylon                 0.81      -      0.81
Beneficiaries                   4.00      -      4.00
Total                      17.25   12.75   30.00
1/   Includes taxes and import duties (US$0.8 million equivalent).
2/   Includes contingencies (US$6.66 million equivalent).



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursement:                                 US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY      1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual        3.0      5.0     4.0      4.0      4.0
Cumulative   3.0       8.0    12.0    16.0    20.0
Rate of Return:            32%
Staff Appraisal
Report:                  No. 2292-CE, dated March 6, 1979






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for
the equivalent of US$20.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Kurunegala Rural Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report, "Development in Sri Lanka:  Issues and
Prospects" (Report No. 1937-CE, March 22, 1978) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on March 23, 1978. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Sri Lanka has achieved social progress far beyond that of other
countries with comparably low per capita incomes. Literacy, health, and life
expectancy are high; nutrition is adequate, and mortality and population
growth rates have been declining. These impressive gains have been achieved
despite generally low output and employment growth. Per capita GDP growth
was only 0.9% per annum in the 1948-60 period; it accelerated to 2.1% in
the 1960s and then declined to 1.3% per annum in the 1970s. Throughout the
1960s and through much of the 1970s, these modest output gains were eroded
by adverse terms of trade trends. This disappointing performance has been
accompanied by a disturbing increase in the level of open unemployment. In
the 1970s, while the labor force has been growing at about 125,000 per year,
employment has been rising by about 85,000, much of it in the form of unpro-
ductive jobs. The number of unemployed has, therefore, been rising, and open
unemployment is estimated at over one million or 20% of the labor force.
4.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable ini-
tial conditions. Compulsory primary education had been introduced as early
as 1901. The food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of
Independence in 1948, Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy
and life expectancy. These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in
the post-Independence period through large expenditures on social services and
the food subsidy, which have accounted for two-fifths to one-half of govern-
ment revenues in the 1960s and 1970s. These expenditures have been financed
by harnessing the surpluses of Sri Lanka's three major tree crops, tea, rub-
ber, and coconut, which provided the Government with both an easy revenue
source and the foreign exchange earnings needed to pay for food imports re-
quired to meet consumption requirements.
5.        There were both measurable and non-measurable socio-economic benefits
flowing from these improvements in health, nutrition, and education, such as
the decline in fertility and the relatively low rate of urbanization. At the



-2-
same time, there were significant costs arising from the firm commitment of
successive governments to maintaining these social gains. The fiscal burden
of these expenditures imposed a high degree of inflexibility on Sri Lanka's
policymakers in their attempts to accelerate long-term growth. That inflex-
ibility increased over time as growth slowed down and in particular, the
ability of the tree crop subsector to provide the resources for the social
programs weakened as commodity prices kept falling and productivity suffered
due to inadequate incentives. Moreover, the gains in education had a negative
impact in the form of large numbers of educated unemployed who have posed a
challenge to the established political order. With political parties com-
peting with each other to offer inducements to the electorate, governments
have failed to focus social expenditure programs more narrowly on specific
groups living in poverty, making these unnecessarily costly.
6.        In the 1960-77 period, gross domestic product at constant prices
rose by 3.8% per annum, slightly above the 3.5% per annum recorded in the
first 12 years after Independence. This impressive performance masks a marked
deceleration in the growth of the productive sectors of the economy between
the 1960s and the 1970s. GDP growth slowed down from 4.4% per annum in the
1960s to 3.0% in the 1970-77 period. Growth fell from 3.4% to 1.9% in agri-
culture; from 6.2% to 2.3% in manufacturing.
7.        The key to the slowdown in GDP growth lies largely in the slow
growth of agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of GDP and four-
fifths of export earnings. Tea and coconut output has been declining steadily
from the mid 1960s; rubber, after showing a rapid increase in the 1960s,
stagnated in the 1970s. Poor weather, declining commodity prices, a rising
effective tax burden, and low producer returns combined with the uncertain-
ties caused by a long, drawn-out land reform (1972-75) depressed producer
incentives and, hence investment and production, to new lows. These problems
were aggravated by a dual exchange rate, introduced in 1968, which discri-
minated against traditional exports and in favor of food imports.
8.        Paddy production, which grew at 7.4% per annum in the 1964-70 period,
slowed down to 0.7% per annum in the 1970-77 period. The decline in yields
and cropping intensities that this reflected is attributable to a series of
droughts and a sharp deterioration in the institutional support for production
programs. The only bright spot on the agricultural scene has been the rapid
increase in output of subsidiary food crops in the 1970s. This represents
gains in acreage rather than yields and is in response to the improved incen-
tives arising from a ban on imports of this foodstuff, introduced in 1970.
9.        Manufacturing output in the 1970s also decelerated due to the cumu-
lative impact of declining investment levels, severe foreign exchange short-
ages that necessitated import rationing (with serious consequences for a
sector in which imported raw materials account for 70% of the value of raw
materials used), the exhaustion of import substitution possibilities, and
inefficiencies in management of the public sector, which now accounts for
66% of the gross value of production in organized industry.



-3-
10.       In general, economic growth was constrained by a persistent foreign
exchange shortage throughout the 1960s and 1970s, inadequate levels of saving
and investment, and the low efficiency of resource use. Sri Lanka's terms of
trade have deteriorated steadily since the early 1960s and worsened sharply in
the mid 1970s following increases in the price of imported food, fertilizer,
and petroleum. The share of these three items in Sri Lanka's total imports
jumped from about 50% in 1972 to 70% in 1975. This sharp increase has, to
some extent, offset the improvement in export prices (particularly of tea)
since 1973. Trade policies that discriminated against exports and encouraged
import substitution caused a slow growth in exports of 2.5% per annum between
1960 and 1976, which acted as a significant constraint on growth for an econ-
omy in which exports accounted for 30% of GDP in 1960, and, at 24%, are still
substantial today.
11.       The share of consumption in GDP has remained relatively stable and
high (at 86%) over the last decade and a half. Domestic savings, when
adjusted for the dual exchange rate, fell from 11.5% of GDP in 1966-70 to 9%
in 1971-76. This deterioration in savings performance is largely explained
by a decline in public savings. Public savings averaged a mere 1% of GDP in
the 1960s, shrinking rapidly in the 1970s, and eventually becoming negative.
This poor performance is attributable to the large and growing burden of sub-
sidies and transfers, which worsened in the 1970s because of the increasing
disparity between import costs and officially determined prices. Private
savings were adversely affected in the 1970s by political uncertainties, a
confiscatory tax burden, and falling real interest rates.
12.       Gross investment has averaged 16% of GDP at current market prices
in the 1960-1976 period. In real terms, investment has been declining, and
there has been persistent failure throughout this period to raise the level
of public investment (around 6-7% of GDP) while private investment in produc-
tive activities was, on the whole, not being given much encouragement. The
efficiency of investment has also been rather low due to both a misdirection
of investment and a failure to exploit the full potential of past investments.
Thus, much of the investment in agriculture has been directed to paddy, to
the neglect of replanting in the tree crop sub-sector, resulting in an erosion
of the latter's production base. Even within paddy, the strategy pursued
emphasized costlier, more visible extensive development of the Dry Zone to
the neglect of cheaper, but less intensive, development. In the manufactur-
ing sector, capital-intensive import substitution was pursued to the neglect
of labor-intensive export-oriented production. Utilization of the potential
already established has been uniformly low. This has been reflected in low
cropping intensities and yields in the agricultural sector, and low-capacity
utilization in manufacturing.
13.       In the elections of July 1977, the eighth since Independence, the
United National Party won a large majority. In the relatively short period
that it has been in office, it has embarked on a major reform of political
institutions and economic policies. A new constitution has been enacted
introducing a presidential form of government. Proportional representation



- 4 -
has replaced the first-past-the-post voting system. A new District Minis-
terial system has been established and District Ministers have been appointed
to each of the 24 districts in Sri Lanka to help increase local level partici-
pation in district planning and administration, and improve implementation of
development programs. District Ministers are appointed by the President from
the Government parliamentary group and function as ex officio Deputy Ministers
to all development-oriented ministries for development programs in their
respective districts. The District Minister presides over a Development
Council comprising Members of Parliament from the electorates in the district
and others nominated to the Council. The Secretary to the District Minister
is also the Government Agent for the District. The development councils are
entrusted with the tasks of planning, coordination, implementation and evalua-
tion of district programs and allocation of the district's share of funds from
the decentralized budget.
14.        The policy changes introduced by the new government are designed
to address the economic problems described in paras 3-12 above. The Govern-
ment has identified five major objectives: (i) the revival and resuscitation
of the economy; (ii) increased capacity utilization in the productive sectors;
(iii) increased employment opportunities; (iv) stimulation of savings and invest-
ment; and (v) improvement in the balance of payments over the medium term.
A program of policy reforms has been developed in close consultation with
the IMF. Its principal aim is to dismantle controls over resource allocations
and initiate price adjustments with a view to establishing more realistic
relative prices. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby
arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979, the
Fund's Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement
covering the 1979-81 period.
15.        The policy reforms introduced so far include:
Exchange Rate Reform: The exchange rate was unified on November 16, 1977,
and allowed to float at a depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00. This implied
a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevailing prior to unifica-
tion, 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
rate, and 29.5% with respect to a transactions-weighted average rate of the
two markets. 1/
Import Liberalization: The trade and payments regime has been liberalized.
With the exception of foodgrains and petroleum products, public sector import
monopolies have been terminated. Prior licensing of imports has been abol-
ished for all but a handful of commodities. The tariff structure has been
revised and simplified.
Interest Rate Reform: To encourage financial savings and discourage spe-
culative imports, interest rates have been raised sharply.
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



- 5 -
Price Controls. These have ended for most commodities.
Budgetary Policies: The unification and depreciation of the exchange rate
caused tree crops export tax revenues and the cost of food, fertilizer and
petroleum subsidies to rise sharply. Export tax rates on tree crops were
raised further to mop up windfall profits while attempting to leave adequate
producer margins. Business Turnover Tax rates have been substantially lowered
and rationalized to be consistent with the new import tariff and exchange rate.
To limit the growth in food subsidies, the rice and sugar rations were confined
to the poorer half of the population and the subsidy on imported wheat flour
was reduced through adjustments in the domestic price. To offset the adverse
impact of these changes, public sector wages have been adjusted upwards on two
occasions, and an income supplement has been introduced at Rs 50 per month to
benefit the poorest households in which one or more persons has no gainful
employment. Public corporations have been asked to pass on cost increases,
except in the case of fertilizer, petroleum, milk and public transport, where
price increases were initially deferred to cushion the impact on consumers.
The Government has subsequently made some adjustments in bus fares, petroleum
and fertilizer prices. These changes, taken together, have enabled an increase
in public savings and contributed, together with higher aid receipts, to a
sizable step up in capital expenditures.
Tax Reform: The tax structure has been rationalized-and simplified with a
view to increasing the elasticity of revenues. The burden of personal and
company taxation has been lowered.
Agricultural Pricing Policies: The domestic procurement price for rice has
been increased by 21%. With the related increase in flour prices, incentives
for paddy and other flour substitutes have been improved. Fresh coconut
prices have recently been increased by 30% and the export duty on coconut
products has been appropriately adjusted. The unification of the exchange
rate also ends discrimination against tree crops; however, the increase in
export taxes takes away a substantial part of these gains. These reforms
constitute only a beginning, and the Government anticipates the need for
further price adjustments designed to reduce the continuing large burden
of subsidies and current transfers (currently at over one-third of govern-
ment revenues).
16.       The economy's response to the policy reforms has been encouraging.
Real gross national product in 1978 is estimated to have increased by 5.7%.
The improved availabilities of inputs following import liberalization, an
increased role for the private sector in distribution and good weather helped
attain a record paddy harvest. Industries, other than tree crop processing,
benefited from the removal of price controls and increased access to imported
raw materials and spare parts. Output of manufacturing industries is estimated
to have risen by 9%, and electricity consumption by 13%, in 1978. After an
initial slow start, private investment has also responded well to the reforms.
This is partly reflected in the near threefold increase in capital goods
imports from US$81 million in 1977 to an estimated US$225 million in 1978.
Transport operators, in particular, have rushed to modernize their antiquated
fleets, resulting in sizable imports of transport equipment. Others have
taken advantage of accelerated depreciation provisions to replace worn out



-6-
machinery and equipment. Applications for new investments have been encourag-
ing. Public investment has also shown a major increase in 1978.
17.       Despite the ending of price controls, policy induced price increases,
and related wage increases, inflation in 1978 is estimated at 15%. Money
supply growth has slackened, and the budget has had a contractionary effect
due to under-expenditure on capital account. Interest rate reform has ensured
positive real interest rates, contributing to a shift in asset preferences and
easing the task of managing the balance of payments.
18.       With import liberalization, imports of goods and non-factor services
in 1978 rose by 39% to US$1,039 million. Exports rose by 12% to US$926 million.
Thus the current account deficit swung from a surplus of US$77 million in 1977
to a deficit of US$105 million in 1978. However, since aid disbursements also
rose sharply, net foreign exchange reserves rose by US$98 million in 1978 to
US$214 million. Gross foreign exchange reserves rose to US$397 million, or 4.5
months of imports. Thus, despite import liberalization, Sri Lanka's balance
of payments remained well in control. The exchange rate averaged Rs 15.60 =
US$1.00 during 1978, appreciating modestly against the dollar and depreciating
against the SDR.
19.       While the overall performance of the economy has been good, there
remained several underlying weaknesses, particularly the inadequacy of incen-
tives and the poor quality of management of the tea estates, severe managerial
problems in the State industrial corporations, shortages of skilled manpower
and inadequate construction capability. The Government is aware of these
weaknesses, and technical and financial assistance programs are in the pro-
cess of being developed to address some of these problems.
20.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort at
stepping up public investment. In this context, the Government attaches the
highest priority to three major new programs: (i) Accelerated implementation
of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program involving telescoping construction
of key remaining works of the 30-year Master Plan for Sri Lanka's largest
river into a 7-10 year period. (Five major reservoir projects are to be
launched with international assistance in 1979 and 1980 at a cost of over
US$1,000 million, to be spread over eight to ten years. When completed, these
projects will irrigate 340,000 acres in the dry zone and generate 390 MW of
power.); (ii) A 200 square-mile free trade zone north of Colombo, under a
newly constituted Greater Colombo Economic Commission. (The first Investment
Promotion Zone near Colombo's international airport, Katunayake, is off to a
good start, and some 50 proposals have been approved.); (iii) A housing and
urban renewal program with its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan region.
21.       Recognizing the enormous financial and manpower burden of these
schemes, the Government has, in consultation with the Bank, begun preparation
of a medium-term public investment program which will attempt to ensure
consistency between the multiple objectives of Government policy and the
financial, administrative and manpower resources available for attaining
those objectives. An initial outline of the program, incorporating the



-7-
capital budget for 1979, is to be presented to the May/June 1979 Aid Group
meeting. The program itself is to be completed in late 1979. It is seen
as a rolling program, emphasizing the annual capital budget, and making
such adjustments in objectives and content as are deemed necessary by
short-term developments and opportunities that present themselves.
22.        The Government has identified three major policy objectives in the
medium term: (i) the creation of over one million new jobs between 1979 and
1983 to absorb the 630,000 expected additions to the labor force and make a
significant dent in the backlog of the unemployed; (ii) acceleration of eco-
nomic growth to 5.5% per annum; (iii) structural improvement in the balance
of payments through reduced dependence on tree crop exports and import sub-
stitution in food. The program envisages a total public investment of Rs 46
billion over the 1979-83 period ($2,900 million), some 60% of total (gross)
investment. Investment is expected to average 24.5% of GNP in the 1979-83
period, as against 16% in the 1971-76 period. To enable this increase to
materialize, domestic savings are expected to average about 14% of GNP, a
substantial improvement over the 9% recorded in the 1971-76 period. The
program, however, relies heavily on a substantial increase in net external
inflows, which are estimated to average 10.6% of GNP throughout the period,
as against an average of 2.3% in the 1970-76 period. These external flows
will finance over two-thirds of the public investment program.
23.       The underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large
investment requirements of the Government's high priority program against the
urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main
thrust of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term
development, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastruc-
ture investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the
economy. The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to
respond to the economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector invest-
ment program, and provide much of the short-term growth.
24.       The success the Government enjoys in attaining its medium term
development objectives is dependent on the further reforms needed to improve
price and export incentives, and management in the public sector. It is also
dependent on additional efforts to mobilize domestic resources and address
absorptive capacity constraints such as manpower shortages and planning and
implementation capability. However, success is ultimately contingent on a
well designed program of external financial and technical assistance. This
is particularly because the proposed increase in investment, together with
the new import liberalization policy will cause imports to grow much more
rapidly than in the past. Moreover, Sri Lanka's terms of trade are expected
to worsen over the medium term, due in the main to an expected decline in real
tea unit values, and an increase in foodgrain import costs. Thus larger aid
flows are needed to ensure that an ambitious development program, with a
strong rehabilitation component, can be implemented within the framework of
a liberalized import regime. Such assistance will also help finance about two-
thirds of the public investment program. In this context, local cost financing
will be needed to support this effort, particularly in the early years, as
domestic resource mobilization efforts begin to gather momentum.



- 8 -
25.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the new policy envi-
ronment in Sri Lanka. Aid commitments in 1978 from members of the Sri Lanka
Aid Group totalled $380 million, an increase of 56% over 1977. At the 14th
Meeting, donors also expressed strong support for the accelerated Mahaweli
Program. The grant element of aid commitments is currently around 65% and is
expected to improve further. The debt service ratio in 1978 stood at 10.3%,
declining from 15.0% in 1977, due to improved export earnings and the decline
in outstanding short and medium term borrowings. The ratio is expected to
drop further to 9.4% in 1979.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
26.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has made eight loans totalling US$73.4 million (net of cancellations)
and fifteen credits totalling US$147.2 million (net of cancellations and
exchange adjustments) in support of 21 projects. About 54% of Bank Group
assistance has been for agriculture (irrigation and agricultural and dairy
development), 27% for power, and the remainder for Development Finance
Company operations, highways, a program credit (mainly involving the import
of raw materials for industry), and water supply. Three early power loans,
the credit for the Mahaweli Ganga Development Project I, and the program
credit, together with the recently completed Lift Irrigation and Drainage and
Reclamation Credits, have been satisfactorily completed and fully disbursed.
Of the two loans made to the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC),
US$6.8 million of the US$12.0 million available was cancelled by DFCC due to
a sudden deterioration in the private investment climate resulting from a
change of government in 1970. Under an ongoing IDA credit of US$4.5 million
made to the DFCC in 1975, sub-projects for the total credit amount have been
approved. A second IDA credit of US$8.0 million to DFCC was approved in FY78.
At the request of the Borrower, a loan/credit for highways was cancelled in
1970, after disbursement of US$0.8 million of the credit, following the
Government's decision to make major changes in the scope of the project.
IDA credits for a Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project of US$21.0 million
and a Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project of US$4.5 million have been
approved in FY79. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group opera-
tions as of January 31, 1979, together with notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
27.       An IFC equity investment of about US$199,000 equivalent in DFCC and
an IFC non-revolving line of credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned
Bank of Ceylon for on-lending to private small- and medium-scale industrial
enterprises were also approved in FY78. An investment of US$3.25 million to
the Pearl Textile Mills, Ltd. (Ceylon) was approved by IFC's Board of Directors
in 1970, but cancelled the same year because Government approval for the
project was withdrawn. IFC has also recently proposed an investment of
US$3.32 million in a synthetic textile mill, which will produce for the
domestic market.
28.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce



its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment,
incomes and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects
to support industry and basic infrastructure are also included. The Bank
Group has agreed to assist the Government of Sri Lanka to accelerate the
development of the Mahaweli Ganga development area by helping to develop an
implementation strategy and to coordinate external assistance for project
preparation and implementation. It is expected that significant investment
opportunities for IDA and other sources of external aid will be associated
with this effort. In addition, appraisal has been largely completed for a
road maintenance project and a national agricultural extension and research
project. Projects in other fields, including water supply and sewerage, tree
crop rehabilitation (rubber), rainfed farming (sugar production), road trans-
port and small scale industries, are also being prepared for possible IDA
financing.
29.       The Bank Group presently accounts for 10.3% (IBRD 3.3%; IDA, 7%) of
Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (almost totally
Bank) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total
external debt will increase to 17% by 1985 (with the Bank's share declining
to about 1%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service will decline to
about 5% by 1985.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
30.       Approximately four-fifths of Sri Lanka's population lives in rural
areas; the proportion varies from roughly 50% in the Western Province in which
Colombo District is located to about 93% rural in the North Western Province
in which Kurunegala District is located. The proportion of Sri Lanka's
population living in rural areas has declined only modestly, around 7 percent-
age points between 1946 and 1971. This is attributable to low and narrowing
rural-urban income differentials, an island-wide food-subsidy program, and
the spread of education and health services throughout the economy. Income
distribution data, which need to be interpreted with considerable caution,
show a significant reduction in inequality within the rural sector. The
share of total income of the top 20% of households in rural areas fell between
1960 and 1973 from 52% to 43%, while that of the lowest 20% rose from 4.5% to
7.3%. Income differentials between the non-estate rural areas and the urban
areas also narrowed over the same period, the ratio of mean incomes between
urban and rural areas declining from 2:1 in 1963 to 1.4:1 in 1973. This
reflects a shift in the terms of trade in favor of agriculture, higher agri-
cultural output and declining real incomes in the urban and estate sectors.
Although there is considerable rural poverty in Sri Lanka, it does not take
the extreme form that is witnessed in neighboring South Asian countries.
31.       The rural sector is dominated by agriculture, with 95% of the rural
population involved directly or indirectly in that activity. About one-third
of the gross domestic product, one-half of total employment and 80% of export
earnings and a large share of government revenues are on account of agricul-
ture. Much of the activity in manufacturing, transport and the services
sector also relates to either supply of inputs to agriculture or processing



- 10 -
of agricultural produce. Traditional and modern economic activity exists
side by side in the rural sector. Tea, rubber and coconut production for
export, dominated by plantations, have in the past constituted the modern
sector in agriculture. With land reform, the bulk of the area under rubber
and coconut and a third of the area under tea are now cultivated by small-
holders. Paddy is primarily in the traditional sector, though a number of
cultivators have adopted modern practices. Although cash crops are beginning
to be included in slash and burn type chena cultivation, this remains a
subsistence-type activity with farmers using traditional cultivation practices.
Rural industries diminished in importance as a result of competition from
the import of industrial goods in the 1950s and the late 1960s. Major rural
industries today include rice mills (which have replaced more traditional
forms of processing), power looms (which supplement handlooms) and tradi-
tional handicrafts.
32.       Sri Lanka's climate is suitable for year-round cultivation.  The
variations in precipitation, topography and soils make it possible to grow a
wide range of crops including tea, rubber, coconuts, paddy, tubers and roots,
coarse grains, pulses, vegetables and fruits. Agricultural development is
confined largely to the wet and intermediate zones, accounting for a third of
the island's surface area, and to a small part of the dry zone. The popula-
tion is concentrated primarily in the wet zone; the dry zone, with the excep-
tion of Jaffna peninsula, is sparsely populated despite recent migration and
colonization. Out of some 5.5 M ac under permanent cultivation, 1.6 M ac are
under paddy, 1.2 M ac under coconut, 0.6 M ac under tea, 0.5 M ac under
rubber, 0.1 M ac under other perennial crops and the remaining 1.5 M ac under
mixed rainfed farming, mostly as small gardens around homesteads. In addition,
about 2.5 M ac are under chena cultivation. Typically, only about one-fifth
of the chena land is cultivated in any year. Where sufficient water is avail-
able, it is common practice to produce two or more crops a year. The cropping
intensity on paddy lands ranges from about 175% in the wet zone to about 110%
in the dry zone, the average for the whole country being about 130%.
Performance and Problems
33.       Agricultural performance over the past two decades has been rather
mixed. There have been modest increases in production and employment and some
progress has been made towards food self-sufficiency. The sector has not,
however, been able to provide a major stimulus to the rest of the economy or
to make any significant dent in the chronic unemployment problem faced by
Sri Lanka (see paras 7 and 8 above).
Objectives and Strategy for the Future
34.       The present Government recognizes the pivotal role of agriculture
in stimulating economic growth and rural development in Sri Lanka. It is
also aware of the constraints imposed on growth by past policies and programs.
The major objectives of the Government's medium-term plans and programs for
agriculture are to:(i) increase agricultural employment and incomes; (ii) in-
crease self-sufficiency in basic food items; and (iii) expand export earnings.



- 11 -
35.       The Government's strategy for achieving these objectives emphasizes
better utilization of the existing potential through institutional and policy
improvements as well as rehabilitation of the production base. Among the
policies and programs being given high priority are: (i) establishment of
appropriate price incentives for producers; (ii) strengthening of agricultural
support services such as research and extension, credit, farm power supply,
and fertilizer distribution; (iii) improved irrigation water management;
(iv) improved management of state controlled lands; (v) stepped up programs
for rehabilitation of plantation crops; and (vi) improvements in living con-
ditions of plantation labor. Through these measures, the Government hopes
to step up the agricultural growth rate to 4.5% per annum over the next five
years. Given adequate attention to implementation problems, the target is
attainable. For the longer-term needs of the economy, the Government is
emphasizing further expansion of irrigated agriculture in the dry zone through
accelerated development of the Mahaweli Ganga basin and a major replanting/
rehabilitation program in the tree crop sector.
Integrated District Development Programs
36.       To encourage grassroot participation in development and to reduce
implementation problems at the field level, the Government is encouraging
decentralization of planning, monitoring and coordination responsibilities.
Overall national priorities and policy guidelines will be established at the
central level and technical guidance and supervision for field staff will
continue to be directed from the respective headquarters. District Ministers
will oversee and coordinate the planning and implementation of all develop-
mental programs 1/ in their respective districts. As the District Minister
arrangement has just been initiated, many of the detailed working procedures
have not yet been completed. It is estimated that it will take several more
months before it is fully operational (see para 13 above).
37.       The decentralization program clearly holds the potential for quick
resolution of implementation bottlenecks as well as for making development
plans more responsive to local needs and resources. The extent to which
this potential will be realized in practice depends largely upon: (i) the
ability to avoid partisan political considerations in resource allocation
at the local level; (ii) development of harmonious relationships between line
ministries in Colombo and the District Ministers; (iii) strengthening of plan-
ning and monitoring capabilities at the district level; and (iv) preparation
of sound technical criteria and policy guidelines for use in formulation of
district plans.
38.       The Government is proposing to undertake a number of integrated
district development projects to test and develop the decentralization program.
Under these district projects, districts would be surveyed and studied, and
a development plan would be prepared taking into consideration the leading
1/   Projects and programs which are of national importance (e.g. the
accelerated Mahaweli Ganga Development Program) will, however,
continue to be handled at the central level.



- 12 -
sectors and activities that need investment support to promote balanced and
accelerated growth. These district projects would emphasize low-cost, quick-
yielding, labor-intensive investments aimed at better utilization of the
existing potential. The main features of this approach would be: (i) coverage
of a wide range of crops and infrastructure needs; (ii) promotion of balanced
interregional development; and (iii) production increases in the near term.
39.       The proposed project for the Kurunegala District would be the
first attempt in Sri Lanka to develop an entire district in an integrated
manner. It is expected that over the next decade most districts outside the
Mahaweli Program would be covered by similar projects. Proposals for devel-
opment of two other districts, Hambantota and Matara are under preparation
with assistance from Norway and Sweden, respectively. The proposed Kurunegala
project would include support for preparation of similar projects for four
other districts for possible financing by external agencies. The four pro-
posals are expected to be ready by June 1980.
Bank Group Support to Agriculture
40.       During the last several years, Bank Group lending to Sri Lanka has
heavily emphasized agriculture and rural development. Since 1968, a total of
nine projects have been financed in this sector including:   Lift Irrigation
(Cr. 121-CE, US$2.0 M); Drainage and Reclamation (Cr. 168-CE, US$2.5 M);
Mahaweli Ganga Development I (Ln. 653-CE, US$14.5 M and Cr. 174-CE, US$14.5
M); Dairy Development (Cr. 504-CE, US$9.0 M); Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 595-CE, US$25.0 M); Tank Irrigation Modernization (Cr. 666-CE, US$5.0 M);
Mahaweli Ganga Development II (Cr. 701-CE, US$19.0 M); Tree Crop Rehabilita-
tion (Tea) (Cr. 818-CE, US$21.0 M) and Tree Crop Diversification (Cr. 819-CE,
US$4.5 M). The first two of these projects have been successfully completed.
The others are progressing satisfactorily, although, due to large scale
emigration of skilled manpower to the Middle East and Africa during the past
several years, skilled manpower availability is beginning to be a constraint.
No project audits by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department have been
undertaken in the sector so far.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project was identified by the Government of Sri Lanka,
prepared by several Government agencies and coordinated by the Ministry of
Plan Implementation with assistance from the UNDP, the Canadian International
Development Agency and IDA missions. The project was appraised in March/April
1978. Two issues relating to project area and organization were resolved
during a follow-up appraisal mission in August 1978. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C., in February 1979. The Borrower's delegation was led by
Dr. Wickrema Weerasooria, Secretary, Ministry of Plan Implementation. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Sri Lanka - Kurunegala Rural Development Project"
(Report No. 2292-CE, dated March 6, 1979) is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. A timetable of key events relating to the project
and special conditions of the credit are given in Annex III.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
42.        The proposed project aims to assist in developing the District
of Kurunegala in an integrated manner for purposes of raising productivity,
employment, incomes and living standards and to develop a replicable model
for rural development for other districts in Sri Lanka. The main assumption
underlying the project approach is that the existing economic and social
infrastructure in Sri Lanka is substantially underutilized and that a rapid
and significant improvement in utilization is possible through strengthening
of development-oriented institutional services and complementary investments
in physical infrastructure.
43.        The proposed project emphasizes:
(a) directly productive investments;
(b) local level political participation in identification
of project investments;
(c) reduction of intra-regional disparities;
(d) financial, technical and institutional replicability; and
(e) labor-intensive, quick-yielding rehabilitation works,
rather than new construction.
44.       Although the proposed project includes some 12 different components,
it does not purport to tackle all aspects of regional development. Instead,
the project design represents a pragmatic compromise between comprehensiveness
and manageability. Even after the project, substantial scope would exist for
further investments in components included under the project as well as for
incorporation of new components.
45.       The proposed project would cover the entire administrative district
of Kurunegala. The Kurunegala district is predominantly rural and agriculture
is the mainstay of its economy. It is located in the western part of the
country (Map IBRD 13943R) and has a land area of about 1,850 sq mi, with an
estimated population of 1.15 M. It is the third largest district in the
country, accounting for about 7% of the total area and 8% of the population.
The climate in the project area is tropical with low variations in tempera-
tures and heavy variable rainfall. Out of the total land area of some
1.2 M ac, about one-half is under permanent cultivation and one-third under
chena cultivation. Coconut and paddy are the two most important crops cover-
ing about 380,000 ac and 170,000 ac, respectively. For both coconut and paddy,
Kurunegala has the highest acreage among all the districts in Sri Lanka,
accounting for about 35% and 13% of the respective crop acreages in Sri Lanka.
The average operational holding size is about 4 ac compared to about 2.5 ac
in Sri Lanka as a whole. Most holdings have 3-4 parcels, often with each
under a different tenurial arrangement.



- 14 -
46.       The district is reasonably well served by a network of about 900 mi
of metalled roads and about 7,000 mi of gravelled roads and dirt tracks.
Educational and health care facilities in the district are roughly at par
with those in other parts of Sri Lanka. However, the district lags behind the
rest of the country in rural electrification and drinking water supplies.
There are also substantial intra-district variations in the level of social
infrastructure facilities, with the outlying remote areas having generally
poor service levels (see Maps IBRD 13944, 13945, and 13946R).
Project Description
47.       Because of the predominant position of coconut and paddy in the
district's economy, as well as the scope for large production increases for
both crops, the principal project thrust would be to rehabilitate their pro-
duction base and to improve support services essential for increased produc-
tion.  The directly productive investments would be complemented by invest-
ments in transportation, health, education, drinking water supply and rural
electrification to improve utilization and effectiveness of the existing
facilities. These investments in the social infrastructure are designed to
improve living standards, to reduce intra-regional disparities and to develop
the social infrastructure for growth in the long-term.
48.       The main components of the proposed project are:
(a) Irrigation and Water Management
(i) rehabilitation of nine major tank and about 500
village irrigation schemes; (ii) provision of 22
mobile pumping facilities for lift irrigation from
perennial streams and other water bodies; and (iii)
introduction of improved water management practices.
(b) Coconut Development
rehabilitation and improvement of coconut lands through
stepped up programs for replanting/underplanting and
intercropping.
(c) Agricultural Extension
strengthening the agricultural extension services in
the district through the introduction of the Training
and Visit (T&V) system.
(d) Agricultural Input Supplies
improvement of availability of agricultural supplies
and services and their coordination.



- 15 -
(e) Agricultural Credit
supporting and strengthening existing schemes
for production credit and for credit for pur-
chase of machinery and equipment.
(f) Livestock
strengthening of animal disease control and
veterinary services.
(g) Groundwater Exploration
exploration of the groundwater resources and
assessment of the potential for economic exploita-
tion of such resources.
(h) Rural Roads
construction/rehabilitation of about 130 miles of high
priority rural roads.
(i) Rural Water Supply
installation of about 400 dug wells in areas with
drinking water deficiency.
(j)  Rural Electrification
electrification of sixteen rural areas.
(k) Health
(i) provision of staff quarters, vehicles and medical
equipment; and (ii) electrification with diesel
generator sets of 4 inpatient hospitals.
(1) Vocational Education
provision of workshop and science equipment and
construction of buildings and teachers' quarters.
(m)  Project Coordination and Investigations
(i) provision of vehicles, office equipment, additional
staffing and construction of office buildings; (ii) pre-
paration of similar rural development projects for four
other districts; (iii) development of a District Statistical
Handbook for Kurunegala; (iv) benchmark and follow-up
surveys for evaluating the impact of the project; and
(v) preparation of additional development schemes for the
District of Kurunegala.



- 16 -
Organization and Implementation
49.       Given the strong interdependence among many of the components and
the large number of agencies involved in implementation, successful project
implementation would depend upon the capacity for a quick resolution of policy
issues as they may arise, and for close monitoring, supervision and coordina-
tion of the work programs of various agencies. Therefore, the project was
designed with three levels of coordination for project implementation.
50.       At the central level, a Project Steering Committee, comprising heads
of the concerned agencies and departments as well as the Government Agent in
Kurunegala and the Project Director, has been established (Section 3.02(a) of
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)). The Committee is chaired by the
Secretary, Ministry of Plan Implementation, with the Director, Regional
Development as its member-secretary. In addition to coordinating and trouble-
shooting at the highest level, the Committee is responsible for: (i) review-
ing and approving annual work programs and budgets; (ii) reviewing quarterly
progress reports; (iii) ensuring general consistency of policies and practices
in various district development projects; and (iv) liaising with IDA on all
project policy matters. The Committee is serviced by a small project cell in
the Regional Development Division of the Ministry of Plan Implementation. The
project cell would work in close cooperation with the Project Director in
Kurunegala.
51.       At the district level, a Project Coordination Committee, comprising
district heads of the key project agencies, has been established to discuss
and resolve interdepartmental coordination problems (Section 3.02(a) of the
DCA). The Committee is chaired by the District Minister, with the Project
Director as the member-secretary. Project-related policy issues as well as
implementation bottlenecks and coordination problems which can not be resolved
at the district level will be referred to the Project Steering Committee.
A full time Project Director with the rank of Additional Government Agent has
been appointed to the district to coordinate various project activities under
the general supervision of the Government Agent and the District Minister
(Section 3.02(b) of the DCA).
52.       Overall project implementation would take five years.  Site surveys
for most buildings under the project are already underway and construction
should be completed in about two years. Tender documents for construction
and agricultural equipment have already been prepared and are being reviewed
by IDA; they are expected to be issued by mid-March 1979 with awards by July
1979, and site deliveries in late 1979. Staff mobilization began in January
1979 and most new staff are expected to be in place by June 1979. Detailed
surveys and investigations ate in progress for village irrigation schemes to
be rehabilitated during the first year of the project. Assurances were
obtained that the selection of village irrigation schemes for rehabilitation
under the proposed project would be in accordance with criteria satisfactory
to the Association (Section 3.06 of the DCA). Assurances were also obtained
that the organizational structure, arrangement, and work program for agricul-
tural extension in the project area would be established and maintained under
terms satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.09 of the DCA).



- 17 -
53.       The Project Director, in collaboration with the various implementing
agencies, would annually prepare a detailed work program, together with asso-
ciated budgetary requirements, for the following calendar year. The program
would be supported by appropriate maps, charts and diagrams and include esti-
mated manpower and material requirements. Following a review by the Project
Steering Committee, the work program would be submitted to IDA for comments
not later than October 31 of each year (Section 3.10(c) of the DCA).
54.       The Irrigation Department would be responsible for the operations
and maintenance (O&M) of the major irrigation schemes down to the distributary
level. Responsibility for O&M of field channels (in major schemes) as well
as the village irrigation schemes would rest with the benefitting farmers who
would be supervised and advised by the Cultivation Officers of the Agrarian
Service Department. Lift irrigation schemes would be operated and maintained
by the Irrigation Department. The maintenance and repairs of the rehabili-
tated rural roads would be done by the Highways Department. Drinking water
wells would be maintained by the beneficiaries, supervised by the Department
of Local Government Services. The Ceylon Electricity Board would be respon-
sible for O&M of rural electrification schemes as well as the diesel gene-
rators to be provided to the Health Department. Health buildings will be
maintained by the Buildings Departments of the Ministry of Local Government.
Adequate repair facilities and workshops exist in the private sector to pro-
vide maintenance services for farm equipment to be sold to farmers under the
project. After project completion, incremental recurrent expenditures for
agricultural extension and the coconut development program would be financed
through annual budgetary appropriations to the Agriculture Department, the
Coconut Cultivation Board and the Department of Minor Export Crops. Assurances
were obtained that: (i) all civil works, including major irrigation works,
roads and buildings constructed and/or rehabilitated under the project, would
be maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices and that adequate
staff and funds would be provided for this purpose (Section 3.08(b) of the
DCA); (ii) institutional arrangements for O&M of village irrigation schemes
and field channels in major tank schemes would be satisfactory to IDA
(Section 3.08(a) of the DCA); and (iii) sufficient funds are provided to the
various implementing agencies to meet all operational, maintenance, and other
recurrent expenditures under the project (Section 3.08(c) of the DCA).
55.       The Peoples' Bank and the Bank of Ceylon would make loans to project
beneficiaries on the prevailing terms for agricultural credit in Sri Lanka,
which are as follows: (i) 9% per annum for cultivation loans for paddy,
coconut, and field crops; and (ii) 14% per annum for farm machinery and equip-
ment loans, with 10 to 20% downpayment by individuals and at least 20% down-
payment by private sector farm machinery pools. Maturities would be:(i) six
months for cultivation loans for paddy and field crops; (ii) five years,
including a two-year grace period, for cultivation loans for coconut; and
(iii) five years, with semi-annual installments, for farm machinery and
equipment loans. The Central Bank would provide 100% refinance for cultiva-
tion loans and 70% refinance for loans for machinery and equipment; refinanc-
ing would be on terms and conditions consistent with the ongoing countrywide
programs and would provide a weighted average spread for all schemes of about
5% to the lending banks, with no guarantee against default. It would be a
condition of effectiveness that the Government has entered into subsidiary



- 18 -
agreements, satisfactory to the Association, with the Peoples' Bank and the
Bank of Ceylon (Sections 3.07 and 6.01(a) and (b) of the DCA) for the provision
of agricultural credit under the proposed project. Inflation over the past
four years is estimated at 12-15%. There is no evidence to indicate that the
annual rate of inflation will change substantially over the next twelve to
eighteen months. Thus, in the immediate short run, interest rates for agri-
cultural lending are expected to remain negative in real terms. However,
unlike the inflation prior to 1978, which was mainly caused by excessive
budgetary deficits fuelling money supply expansion, the current inflation is
largely a result of policy-induced price adjustments, which are designed to
produce a major restructuring of relative prices in the economy (see para 15
above). These price adjustments are an integral part of a program of policy
reforms introduced by the new Government in consultation with the International
Monetary Fund. They are expected to be substantially completed by the end of
1980. The Sri Lanka authorities anticipate production to respond positively
to these price changes, and, together with a continued tight rein over govern-
ment budgetary deficits, to cause a slow down in the rate of inflation by
1981. This is a reasonable assumption, and, barring unforeseen development,
positive real interest rates should prevail over the bulk of the project's
disbursement period.
Technical Assistance
56.       To strengthen the implementation capacity of the various project
agencies, the Government would employ consultants having qualifications and
experience and upon terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association (Section 3.02(c) of the DCA). This technical assistance would
include about two manyears each for development planning and for farm
management/extension work, plus about 24 man-months of short-term specialists
to advise on specific technical issues in several project components. The
project would also make provision for short-term study tours by project
staff.
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.       Monitoring of the project's progress would be through monthly
reports by the staff of the various implementing agencies. Assurances were
obtained that each of the various departments and agencies responsible for
carrying out the proposed project would maintain separate records adequate
to reflect the operations and financial condition of the part or parts of the
proposed project for which the department or agency is responsible (Section
4.01(a) of the DCA). The Project Director would compile and consolidate the
individual reports for review and discussion at the monthly meeting of the
Project Coordination Committee. Based on the monthly reports, the Project
Director would also prepare quarterly progress reports for review by the
Project Steering Committee. To avoid burdening the field staff with excessive
paper work, monthly progress reports would be kept short and include only
data of key importance. The quarterly reports together with other relevant
project records would be used to prepare a comprehensive annual progress
report. Assurances were obtained that the quarterly progress reports would
be submitted to IDA within one month of the end of the quarter under review
(Section 3.10(a) of the DCA) and that the annual progress report would be sent



- 19 -
to IDA by March 31 of the following year (Section 3.10(b) of the DCA). Assur-
ances were also obtained that the Government would cause each of its various
departments and agencies to have its accounts and financial statements audited
each fiscal year (for the part or parts of the proposed project for which it
is responsible), and also would cause the Project Director to consolidate
these accounts and financial statements into a unified report for all of the
proposed project activities and furnish it to IDA not later than six months
after each such year (Section 4.01(b) of the DCA).
58.        In view of the prototype nature of the project, high priority would
be given to evaluation of the direct and indirect impact of the project as well
as the socio-economic characteristics of the beneficiaries. Benchmark data
for the evaluation would be established mostly from two on-going surveys --
the National Agrarian Survey by the Agrarian Research and Training Institute
(ARTI) and the Consumer Finance Survey by the Central Bank. The two surveys
are expected to be repeated periodically -- the ARTI survey every two years
and the Central Bank survey every five years. In addition, small in-depth
studies focussed on specific aspects of the project would be undertaken by
contracting local universities and research institutions. Assurances were
obtained that by December 31, 1979, IDA would receive for review and comment
a detailed plan for project evaluation (Section 3.10(d) of the DCA). Assur-
ances were also obtained that a project completion report would be prepared
after the completion of the proposed project (Section 3.04(c) of the DCA).
Costs and Financing
59.        The total project cost is estimated at US$30.0 M equivalent.  The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$12.75 M or about 43% of the
total project cost. Cost estimates are based on unit prices adjusted to
January 1979 price levels and include about US$0.8 M for taxes and import
duties. Physical contingencies of 10-15% for civil works, 5% for field works
and equipment, and 10% for incremental recurrent expenditures have been
included. Price contingencies have been estimated assuming an annual infla-
tion rate of 6% for foreign costs, and 15% for local costs in 1979, followed
by 10% thereafter. The total cost of individual consultants' services is
estimated at about US$0.4 million equivalent, or about US$6,000 per man-month,
consisting on average of salary US$3,500, allowances US$1,200, travel US$500,
settlement US$300, and miscellaneous US$500. The proposed IDA credit of
US$20.0 M would finance the full foreign exchange costs and about 42% of the
local costs, or about 68% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties.
Benefitting farmers would provide about US$4.0 M equivalent as contributions
to field works for coconut development, cash purchases of farm equipment, and
down payments and installment payments on private agriculture investments
financed through institutional credit. Participating commercial banks, the
Peoples' Bank and the Bank of Ceylon, would contribute about US$0.8 M from
their own resources for financing part of the agriculture credit requirements
under the project. The Government would contribute the remaining US$5.2 M.
Procurement
60.        Equipment and Vehicles.  Equipment, vehicles and spares with an
estimated cif cost of about US$2.5 M (net of contingencies) would be procured



- 20 -
after international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods or the
import duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids. Because of the relatively small quantities under the
project and the need for standardization, it would be impractical and costly
to have separate tenders for much of the educational and medical equipment;
accordingly, the project requirements for these items (cif cost US$0.4 M, net
of contingencies) would be procured together with the national requirements.
Due to strong consumer preferences, ICB would also be impractical for procure-
ment of vehicles which are to be purchased by departmental staff or for
procurement of equipment to be purchased on a cash basis by farmers (cif cost
US$0.5 M, net of contingencies); these would be procured through prudent
shopping, following procedures satisfactory to IDA. Small off-the-shelf items
costing less than US$10,000 each, which cannot be bulked into packages suitable
for international tendering or items needed urgently for expeditious project
implementation, would be procured through prudent shopping in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IDA. The total of all non-ICB equipment purchases
would be limited to an aggregate of US$1.2 M.
61.       Civil Works.  Because most civil works (base cost US$6.5 M net of
contingencies) would be labor-intensive, relatively small, restricted to
seasonal construction, scattered over a wide area and could not be grouped
into large contracts, they would be unsuitable for ICB. Also, at present the
private sector in Sri Lanka has a very limited capacity for construction works
and much of that capacity would be preempted by programs such as the Mahaweli
Program. Many Government departments and agencies, on the other hand, have
considerable experience and capacity for such works. Accordingly, the civil
works under the project would mostly be done on force account or through small
unit-cost contracts with local labor groups. Field development works for
coconut lands (base cost US$2.3 M) would be undertaken by beneficiaries on
force account using family and/or hired labor and inputs purchased through
normal commercial channels.
62.       Agricultural Credit.  Farm inputs, equipment and vehicles (base cost
US$6.9 M) under agricultural credit would be purchased by the sub-borrowers
through normal commercial channels. A sufficient number of local dealerships
and agencies are available to ensure competitive prices and wide ranging
choice. This situation would, however, be monitored by the Agriculture
Development Authority and reviewed by IDA supervision missions from time to
time; in case there were to be inadequate competition or excessive prices in
the local market, arrangements would be made for procurement through ICB with
due regard to consumer preferences.
Disbursements
63.       Disbursements would be made for:  (i) 100% of foreign expenditure,
or 100% of local expenditure ex-factory, or 80% of local expenditure for
equipment, vehicles, and spares; (ii) 100% of the cost of technical assist-
ance; (iii) 80% of the cost of civil works including construction materials;
(iv) 80% of the financial assistance in excess of Sri Lanka Rs 1.0 M per
calendar year by the Government for field works; (v) 40% of the disbursements
in excess of Sri Lanka Rs 7.0 M per calendar year for cultivation loans by



- 21 -
the Peoples' Bank and Bank of Ceylon; and (vi) 80% of the amount disbursed by
the Peoples' Bank and the Bank of Ceylon for loans for agricultural equipment
and vehicles. Disbursement for items (iii)-(vi) would be made against state-
ments of expenditures. Supporting documentation would not be submitted for
review, but would be retained by the implementation agencies and available for
inspection by IDA during the course of project supervision missions. The
Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for all
implementing agencies claiming disbursement under statement of expenditure to
maintain proper accounting records and, where necessary, to build up their
institutional capacity for procurement and internal audit. The disbursement
mechanism for field works and for cultivation loans is designed to provide
financing for those additional activities to be undertaken above the current
level of activities. The level of activities achieved in 1978 was established
as the base for these calculations. All other disbursements would be made
against full documentation. The Project Director would be responsible for
preparing claims for disbursements from IDA. It is expected that the disburse-
ments would be completed by June 30, 1984, about six months after the end of
project implementation. Since preliminary works for establishing the project
organization and for initiating project activity (e.g., construction of
buildings and facilities, procurement of vehicles, establishment of nurseries,
site surveys, etc.) is critical to efficient program implementation, it is
proposed that expenditures after January 1, 1979 for eligible project expen-
ditures be retroactively financed up to a total value of US$0.5 million.
Farm Incomes and Cost Recovery
64.       Analysis of the present and future farm operations for representa-
tive farms in the project area indicates that the gross values of production
and the net farm incomes would increase by about 40% over the present level
and 25% above the future level expected without the project. The increases
are expected to be somewhat larger in the wet/semi-wet zones where present
income levels are somewhat lower and the scope for rehabilitation of coconut
is greater. Also, the gains in net farm incomes are expected to be somewhat
lower on larger holdings, as they would require hired labor, while hired
labor requirements on smaller holdings would be minimal due to underemployed
family labor. The projected increases are considered adequate for active
participation of the beneficiaries in project activities. Estimates of
financial rates of return on some specific farm activities under the project
(e.g. replanting/underplanting of coconuts, intercropping with cocoa, coffee
and pepper and custom operation of farm tractors) indicate annual returns of
25-40% and hence they should all find ready acceptance by the farmers.
65.       It is estimated that about 60% of the project-related increase in
paddy production and 90% of the increased coconut production would be marketed.
Assuming continuation of the current pricing policies, the marketed surplus
would mean an annual "transfer" of about Rs 77 M (in 1978 prices) from proj-
ect area farmers to the Government as well as urban consumers because of
differentials in the domestic and world-market prices of paddy and coconut
products. The project "recovery" would amount to about Rs 50 M per annum,
net of the estimated incremental subsidy burden of Rs 23 M per annum on
account of increased fertilizer use and about Rs 4 M per annum as incremental
O&M expenditures. At a discount rate of 10% per annum, the present value of



- 22 -
the projected stream of net transfers from the project area farmers would
amount to about Rs 220 M. This compares to the present value of Rs 195 M of
proposed Government investments 1/ under the project. Thus, with continuation
of the present development, pricing, and subsidy policies, the investment
would lead to full recovery of all project costs including those for social
infrastructure.
66.       An analysis of project rent 2/ using farm gate prices corresponding
to world-market prices indicates that the prevailing pricing and subsidy
policy in Sri Lanka implies rent "recovery" rates of over 50%. In view of
these, no new charges have been sought under the project and the project
would operate within the current framework of Government policies applicable
nationally. Assurances were obtained that the Government would recover
a portion of the project costs, mutually agreed with IDA, based upon the
Government's distributive objectives and farmers' incentives and abilities
to pay, and that the progress of the recovery would be reviewed with IDA from
time to time in order to ensure that these principles are consistently achieved
(Section 3.11 of the DCA).
67.       In addition to an initial contribution of about Rs 62 M (net of
taxes and duties) for project financing and debt service of the proposed IDA
credit, the project would directly add a net surplus of about Rs 21 M per
annum (constant 1979 prices) to the Government budget. The indirect impact
from additional tax revenues from increased activities in secondary and
tertiary sectors would also be positive, although it has not been quantified.
Benefits and Justification
68.       The proposed project would assist the Government in raising incomes,
employment and living standards of some 170,000 farm families in the Kurunegala
District. The project would also have a beneficial effect on the Government's
balance of payments as well as its budgetary position. Even more importantly,
the project would help the Government in developing a low-cost, quick-yielding,
labor-intensive model of regional development for replication in other areas
of the country.
69.       At full development in 1991, successful project implementation would
lead to incremental annual production of about 2.4 M bushels of paddy (32,000
tons of rice) and about 155 M nuts of coconut, both about 25% above the levels
expected without the project. At projected world market prices, the gross
value of incremental paddy and coconut production would be about US$21 M per
annum. Allowing for the added imports of fertilizers, agro-chemicals, farm
equipment and fuels, the project would represent a net annual foreign ex-
change savings of about US$16 M.
1/   Excluding price contingencies, agricultural credit and farmers' own
contribution to coconut rehabilitation works.
2/   Project rent is the incremental net value of production adjusted for
uncertainty in farm incomes and including appropriate rewards for
additional farm labor input and management requirements.



- 23 -
70.       The labor-intensive works to be constructed under the project would
create employment of about 4 M man-days during project implementation. Another
2.5 M man-days of employment would be created in field works for replanting/
underplanting and intercropping of coconut lands. More intensive land use and
improved crop husbandry practices under the project would result in additional
annual farm employment of about 5 M man-days. Increased agricultural produc-
tion, through backward and forward linkages, would also create substantial new
employment in activities such as marketing, processing, transportation, input
supplies and consumer services. All this would help to relieve the large un-
employment and underemployment situation prevailing in the project area, par-
ticularly during the slack periods of the agricultural cycle.
71.       Social infrastructure financed under the project would improve trans-
port facilities for about 20,000 families currently living in inaccessible
remote areas, improve drinking water supplies to some 6,000 families in water
deficit areas, supply electrical service to about 1,000 rural households,
provide better health care for about 20,000 families in remote areas, improve
instructional facilities at about 300 schools, and strengthen vocational
education facilities in the district.
72.       Over two-thirds of the project beneficiaries would be small farmers
with operational holdings of 3 ac or less, with present per capita income
levels considerably below the national average of about US$200. Improved land
productivity and increased on-farm and off-farm employment under the project
could enable about 25% of the farm families in the district to move above the
poverty level of about US$50 per capita per annum.
73.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be about 32%.  Sensitiv-
ity tests indicate that the project remains viable under a variety of adverse
assumptions about costs, benefits and timing of realization of benefits.
With a 20% increase in investment and production costs and 20% decrease in
incremental paddy and coconut production, the economic rate of return is
estimated to be about 19%. If full realization of project benefits is delayed
by two years, the economic rate of return is estimated to be about 28%.
Project Risks
74.       The proposed project is complex and faces the difficulties asso-
ciated with actions in politically sensitive and institutionally demanding
areas, such as irrigation water management and rural credit discipline. An
inherent risk in multi-sectoral projects such as this concerns the ability
to achieve necessary coordination in implementing the various interrelated
components. It is hoped that the newly established District Ministerial
system, as well as the detailed preparatory work undertaken to define func-
tions and responsibilities of the various implementing agencies, would keep
such problems to a minimum. As a further safeguard, the project organization
has been designed with a view to providing quick feedback and with a capa-
bility for early resolution of implementation bottlenecks, at the highest
levels, if necessary.



- 24 -
75.       On the technical side, the most serious risk concerns successful
adoption of intercropping practices by coconut smallholders. The availability
of field-tested technical packages for extension work is also limited at this
stage. The project has been designed with these constraints in mind and the
intercropping program has been kept very modest. It is hoped that this limited
approach would demonstrate the prospects of successful implementation on a
large scale after the project. However, even if the component were not to
succeed, the project would remain viable.
76.       Finally, the project faces the risk of shortage of professional
and technical staff of various kinds, particularly design and construction
engineers. During the past few years there has been a large scale emigra-
tion of such staff to Africa and the Middle East. The domestic requirements
have, on the other hand, increased dramatically because of the Government's
development and investment programs such as the accelerated Mahaweli Ganga
Development Program. The Government is keenly aware of the problem and is
trying to solve it through more attractive salaries and incentives as well as
accelerated training programs. Because the Government has assigned high
priority to the project, staff from the various implementing agencies have
already been reassigned to the project area. As the project requirements for
technical personnel are rather small in relation to overall domestic avail-
ability and demand, and with this interest by the Government and the other
specialized technical assistance included under the project, no major problems
are foreseen in meeting the project needs.
Project Replicability
77.       The project would be suitable for replication in most other dis-
tricts of Sri Lanka. Financially, the project represents an investment of
about US$110 per farm family spread over a five year period. Extension of
the project to the estimated 2 M farm families in Sri Lanka would represent
an investment of about US$220 M (in 1979 prices) -- a substantial sum, but
well within the means of Sri Lanka, particularly in view of the expressed
interest of several other aid agencies to finance similar projects. Admin-
istratively, the project is designed to work through existing institutions
and organizations rather than creating autonomous new boards or project
authorities. Accordingly, the administrative structure could be rapidly
mobilized in other districts of Sri Lanka. Finally, paddy and coconut, the
focus of the proposed project, are important in practically all districts of
Sri Lanka, and therefore the proposed investment package could be quickly
adapted to the needs and potential of other districts. The project experience
would be applicable on a countrywide basis and successful project implementa-
tion could open up the prospects of accelerated rural development on a large
scale.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 25 -
79.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness for the IDA Credit would
be the execution of satisfactory subsidiary agreements between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Peoples' Bank and the Bank of Ceylon
respectively (para 55).
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 19, 1979.



-26 -                                               Annex I
Page 1 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
SRI IANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SRI LANKA                                               ft
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             65.6                                                    SAME        SANE     MEET HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      24.2                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP id    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0       120.0     200.0            167.4       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      107.0       153.0     127.0             65.7       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         9.9         12.5      14.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         22.0      25.2             12.8       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       151.0       191.0     213.0             85.2       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    507.0        518.0     579.0            322.6      254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.5 /f     40.0      39.0             44.0       43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                         54.3 /f      56.0      57.0             52.9       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.2 /f      4.0       4.1              2.9        2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6         2.4       1.7              2.2        2.4          2.7
URBAN                               4.8         4.5       3.7              4.2        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH BRTE (PER THOUSAND)      37.6        33.1      27.4             45.1        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH BU.TE (PER THOUSAND)     10.7         8.0        7.9            17.3        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.5         2.3        2.0             3.2        2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        55.3     113.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WHMEN)    ..          8.0       9.9             13.7        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA i1970-100)              86.6       100.0     109.1             95.6       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    92.0       101.0      97.0             91.1       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           45.0        50.0      48.0             49.6       50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        15.0        16.0      15.0             12.6        13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..          ..       16.8              ..          ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    60.5         65.8      67.8             43.1       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            52.0        50.0      51.0             99.5       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        21.0      19.0             30.0       26.4         31.1
URBAN                                ..        46.0      36.0             66.3       63.5         68.5
RURAL                                ..        14.0       13.0            17.2        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        64.0      59.0             15.7        16.1        37.5
URBAN                                ..        76.0      68.0             66.9        65.9        69.5
RURAL                               ..         61.0      55.0              2.5        3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER FHYSICIAN           4500.0          ..    4010.0           8830.8    13432.7       9559.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4170.0      2730.0    2280.0           8479.3     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             330.0       330.0     330.0           1624.5     1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                ..       130.0     140.0               ..      183.3        278.4
RURAL                                ..       570.0     600.0               ..     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        54.0       51.3              ..        19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4 /f      5.8         ..              ..        5.2
URBAN                               6.3 /f      6.3         ..              ..        4.8
RURAL                               5.2 /f      5.5         ..              ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER R00M
TOTAL                               2.0 /f      2.5         ..
URBAN                               2.1 /f      2.7         ..              ..        1.8          2.3
RURAL                               2.0         2.5         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               7.5 If      9.0         ..              ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                              35.9 /f     34.5         ..
RURAL                               2.3 7T      2.8         ..              ..         8.7        10.3



- 27-                                               Annex I
TABLE 3A                                     Page  2 of  6 pages
SRI LANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SRI LAA                                                  /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SANE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION L.   GROUP /d    GROUP L.
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0         99.0      77.0             59.1        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                90.0        94.0       77.0             38.4       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  27.0         51.0      54.0             19.9        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                16.0        51.0       55.0              9.9        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECXNDARY)   ..           1.0       1.0              1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0           .-      22.0             38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                            ..           ..        ..             23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         77.6       78.1            35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          8.0          7.0       6.7              2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         36.0           ..      37.0             14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..              ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  36.0         49.0         ..             6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            ..        3.9              ..         1.4          1.6
ENPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3500.0 If   4100.0    4707.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   22.6         23.7      28.5             21.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.3         52.0      55.0             62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.5         14.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 34.3        33.5       34.6            35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                 50.8         49.2       48.2             52.4       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                16.2        16.5      20.3             15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.4        1.2              1.3        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.4          18.8       18.6            18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS  52.1          45.6      42.8             42.8        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5           7.4        7.3             7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.7          17.9       19.3            19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      68.0             80.2        88.5        155.9
RUIRAL                                ..          ..      76.0             67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..              ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..      59.0             39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      26.0             50.3        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      22.0             44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
Ic    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   If  1963.
September, 1978



- 28 -                                                                Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                       Page   3  of   6   pages
Zia" Ihe adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populateS country in each group.  Coverage of coantries among the indirators depends on availability of data and is not uifor.  Due to lock of data,
gro-p averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
si.ple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective nu-ber of hospital beds
AjtiruLtur-l - Most recent estimate of agricultural are. used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized hospital and rt-
co  peronnertly for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                    babilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permatently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at lean.t one phyndico..  Establishne..ts providing prinoipally custodial
care are not incladnd.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
lNP PER CAPITA (US11   - SNF per capita estioates at current market prices,                 cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
-ul-ulocod by saco conors-Ion   ethod as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodacion and
1961, 197C, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of =edical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY COSIMPTIION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                     from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal acd lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclser and geo-
theroal olacrnicity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per oapita.                    HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
PO ULATION1 AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A household consists of a group of individuals who snare living quarters
Total population, Mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or oar not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of hosse-
Urban population (percent pf total) - Ratio of urban to total pcpula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas mav affect comparasility                   Average number of persons per rooe   - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among cuntries.                                                                 ber of persons per noOC in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
copulation density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-per=anent stru-tures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square Rilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. kc. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultunai land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population ag structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Popuatin gowthmer  (prcen) -totl, ad uban- Compound anulPrimary school - total, and female - Tonal and famale e-rllmanet of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-yar populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level an percentages of respectivelv primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years bht adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of pri=sry education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year populat-on; ten-yeer arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-yeon average ending in 1975 for most renent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman wall bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence cuurses are generally
in her normal reproduct ve period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; Usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondarv) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Pa=lvn planninc - acoentoes. annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program,.                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the carre-
Pamily planning - users (percent of marerid women) - Peroenrage of                         sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-64 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married romeo in sane age group.                                          a percentage of total adslt population aged 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSLXPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970o101) - Index number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars cosprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food comnodities.                                     seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearoes and military
Per capita supplv of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of ne: food supplies available in country per .apita               Radix receivers (per thousand Population) - All types of r-ceiv-rs for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data foe  recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quiremeots were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
.al acrivity and health considering environmental temperaure. body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receiners for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicecsed TV receivers in coon-
cent f-r waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was is effect.
Per capita oupply of protein (grace per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper  ircoulation (per thousand population) - Shows thc aveagecircula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined on                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a  nimcu= allowance of 50 grams of total protein per day and ZO grams                    be "daily" if it apoears at least foar tines a weak.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita per near - BPsed on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than thoue of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 gra.s of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pales - Protein supply of food              EtlPLOY!dENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thoasands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are cot comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total 'abor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting aid fishing
Life nopoctascy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (Percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, nanafecturing and
cod 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gee an percentage of total labor force.
Infant sortality race (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
ose year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                female labor force as percentages of their respective popalations.
Access to sole water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are ILO's  adjusted participation runes reflecting  an-sen
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     stroctrre of che population, end lonp time trend.
solo cuter supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated hut                 _Econor  dependency ratio - Ratio of population order 15 and 67 and  ev  to
uscoctuslnontod water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
und nacitary wells) as perce.tages of their  -espeotive populations.
In as urban area a public fountain or standpost located not sore                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
-ooablh  access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 2l  percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 43 percent
i yply that tre housewife or ce=bers of the household do not have to                     of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
otc ar need.                                                                        POVERTY TAiGET GROUPS
.Acss *.o-excreto d.spos.l (ceccooc of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (L'S  per capita)- urba  and rota. -
r.ural -  c-ber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by encreta                      Absolute poverty income level is tbat income le-   bel.ow which a  ilsnl-l
hus-os-l a. p-rc-ontugs of thuir rusppctiva populatic.-  Eborta                          untritio.ally adequate dies  p1cc essential eon-food rqyuir-ents if  not
ci-.e  he . cl2tior sn d disposal, with or without                        affordable.
'-uss of hunan  --cc c'  asd c-slo-water by water-borne systems                  Estinated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urbac and rural -
-  -   - -e of pit pyr -"es- ac  iuclar installations.                                   Relative poverty income leel is tiar ioco- level ls cisc one-th ird
?hi pcvaci_r          coos h ia. -  pluri-: divided by number of practicing                per capita personal incone of tho rountro.
-muss  1 Zans c0i  fiec f   ne-ical  -ccool at university level.                      Estimated population below pover:t incor,e level  perce         -urban and rural -
cs   u' a- -cc "ursiof -ccost   F-pslation divided by number of                            Percent of populatuon (urban and rural) whi  ore either "ab-olute poor" or
so 1vol :    m d u -lm   gradu-te cursen, practical curses, and                  relative poor" whichever is greater.
Ecconoic and Souia1l DubL 'itisic-
Ivcon.ic Arut-ins 00d P'cie-c.o-t lDepultccnr



Annex I
SRI LANKA                                         Page 4 of 6 pages
E C O N O M I C    D E V E L O P M E N T    D A T A    S H E E T S
A C T U A L                        EST.             P R O U E C T E D
1965       1970        1976         1977        1978       1979         1980        1985        1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (1)
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT   1975  PRICES)
----------------------------------
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT                 1783.0      2354.0      2747.3      2811.4      2983.8      3153.6      3333.5      4407.2
GAINS FROM TERMS OF TRADE               539.7       242.2       185.1       495.1       424.8       341.2       286.6       191.9
GROSS DOMESTIC INCOME                  2322.7      2596.2      2932.4      3306.5      3408.6      3494.8      3620.0      4599.0
IMPORTS                                1189.8      1017.3       913.5      1098.6      1363.7      1398.0      1451.6      1738.8
EXPORTS - VOLUME                       -670.2      -662.9      -660.5      -722.9      -790.1      -817.8      -858.9    -1092.2
EXPORTS - TT. ADJUSTED               -1209.9       -905.1      -845.6    -1218.0    -1214.9    -1159.0    -1145.5    -1284.1
RESOURCE GAP - TT. ADJUSTED             -20.1       112.1        67.9      -119.4       148.9       239.0       306.2       454.8
TOTAL CONSUMPTION                      2055.9      2239.0      2563.6      2719.1      2900.9      3011.0      3147.8      4048.0
INVESTMENT                              246.8       469.4       436.8       468.0       656.5       722.9       778.4      1005.8
NATIONAL SAVINGS                        244.3       297.9       350.7       580.8       519.7       503.5       498.7       582.3
DOMESTIC SAVINGS                        266.9       357.3       368.9       587.4       507.6       483.8       472.2       551.0
GOP AT CURRENT USS                     1686.6      1870.6      2424.2      2821.3      2515.2      3057.1      3559.3      6284.6
SECTOR DUTPUT
(SHARE OF GOP AT   1975  PRICES)
AGRICULTURE                             0.444       0.422       0.376       0.387       0.387       0.382       0.377       0.354
INDUSTRY                                0.171       0.211       0.217       0.201       0.201       0.205       0.209       0.230
SERVICES                                0.385       0.367       0.407       0.412       0,412       0.413       0.414       0.417
PRICES (  1975  * 100)
EXPORT PRICE INDEX                      65.65       56.86       95.16      114.45      117.17      118.47      120.48      152.46
IMPORT PRICE INDEX                      36.37       4i.64       74.33       67.92       76.20       83.59       90.34      129.68
TERMS OF TRADE INDEX                   180.52      136.55      128.02      168.49      153.77      141.73      133.36      117.57
GDP DEFLATOR (USS)                      94.59       79.47       88.24      100.35       84.30       96.94      106.77      142.60
ANNUAL AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE             4.76        6.85       10.88       11.06
G R OW   T H    R A T E S               1976
___---------------------               SHARE
1965        1977                                OF
1977       1979                                GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (1)
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT   1975  PRICES)
----------------------------------
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT                    3.9         5.9                               100.0
GAINS FROM TERMS OF TRADE                                                                 6.7
GROSS DOMESTIC INCDME                     3.0         2.8                               106.7
IMPORTS                                  -0.7        12.8                                33.3
EXPORTS - VOLUME                          0.6         6.4                                24.0
EXPORTS - TT. ADJUSTED                    0.1        -2.5                                30.8
RESOURCE GAP - TT. ADJUSTED                                                               2.5
TOTAL CONSUMPTION                         2.4         5.2                                93.3
INVESTMENT                                5.5        24.3                                15.9
NATIONAL SAVINGS                          7.5        -6.9                                12.8
DOMESTIC SAVINGS                          6.8        -9.2                                13.4
GDP AT CURRENT USS                        4.4         4.1
PRICES ( 1975 s 100)
EXPORT PRICE INDEX                        4.7         1.7
IMPORT PRICE INDEX                        5.3        10.9
TERMS OF TRADE INDEX                     -0.6        -8.3
GDP DEFLATOR (USS)                        0.5        -1.7
SELECTED INDICATORS
___________________
ICOR                                     4.37        3.29
IMPORT ELASTICITY                       -0.18        2.09
AVERAGE NATIDNAL SAVINGS RATE            0.11        0.18
MARGINAL NATIONAL SAVINGS RATE           0.33       -0.21
IMPORTS/GDP                              0.45        0.43
INVESTMENT/GDP                           0.16        0.21
RESOURCE GAP/GDP                         0.04        0.03
(1) COMPONENTS MAY NOT ADD UP BECAUSE OF ROUNDING



Anuex I
SRI LAMA                                             Page 5 of 6 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENIS ANO EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
___________________________________________
1973        1974        1075        1976         1977        1978         1979
A C T U A L                             E T.         P R OJ E C T E D
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
_____  _____ _____-  __________
1.  EXPORTS (INCLUDING NFS)               424.3       570.4       623.2        628.5       827.3        925.7       968.8
2.  IMPORTS (INCLUDING NFS)               445.3       731.7       *196.6       679.0       746.2       1039.2      1168.7
3.  RESOURCE BALANCE                      -21.0      -161.3      -170.6        -50.5        81.1      -113.4       -199.8
4.  NET FACTOR SERVICE INCOME             -17.3       -16.6       -18.4        -20.1       -15.0         -4.t           .2
1 NET INTEREST PAYMENTS                 -14.7       -14.7       -15.13      -18.6        -14.0        -3.1          1.2
OF NHICH ON PUB M3LT LOANS           -15.5        -16.5       -20.6       -23.1        -22.1       -22.8       -26.7
.2 DIRECT INVESTMENT INCOME              -2.7        -2.0        -2.4         -1.5        -1.1        -1.0         -1.0
.3 WORKERS REMITTANCES (NET)                10 .0                   .O           .0          .0          .0           .0
5.  CURRENT TRANSFERS (NET)                  .2         -.2          2.8         6.6         10.5        12.9        15.1
6.  BALANCE ON CURRENT ACCOUNT            -38.1      -178.1      -1U6.2        -64.0         76.6     -104.6       -184.6
7   PRIVATE DIRECT INVESTMENT                .5         1.3          -.2          .0         -.3           .0        12.5
8.  GRANTS & GRANT-LIKE FLOWS              13.0        42.0         77.0        56d.0       6Q.8         53.0        80.1
PUBLIC M&LT LOANS
9.  DISBURSEMENTS                          93.8       146.3        157.4       210.4       150.1        262.7       291.8
10. AMCRTIZATION                          -39,1       -52.4      -117.7       -103.8      -101.9        -72.1       -64.1
11. NET DISBURSEMENTS                      44.7        93.8        313.7       106.7        40. 2       190.6       227.8
OTHER MSLT LOANS
12. OISEJRSEMENTS                                         .0          .0          .0
13. AMORTIZATION                             ,0          .0           .0          .0
14. NET DISBURSEMENTS                        .0           .0 .O                   .0           .0          .0
15. USE OF IMF RESOURCES                   -1.4        33.3         27.9        11.1        46.9           .0           .O
16. SHORT-TERM CAPITAL
TRANSACTIONS                           -9.8        13.2        -2.8       -22_6          5.5       -40.7         -4.S
17. CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS NEI               28.2        62.3       -12.0        -31.8       -56.9           .0        15.0
18. CHANGE IN RESERVES
(- = INCREASE)                       -37.1         56.8        56.6       -57.4      -183.Q        -98.2      -146.2
19. NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE   (1)
RESERVES (END OF PERIOD)              -11.0       -67.8      -124.4       -67.0        116.0       214.2        360.S
GRANT AND LOANS COMMITMENTS
1.  OFFICIAL GRANTS                        21.1        37.0        76.0         53.1       104.3       103.9        300.0
2.  TOTAL PUBLIC MALT LOANS                92.1       233.1        285.,       221.8       167.6        355.5       439.0
.1 IBRD                                      0          .0           .0          .0           .0          .0          .0
.2 IDA                                     6.0        24.0        293.5          .0        41.2        25.5         70.0
.3 OTHER MULTILATERAL                      2.8         2.5        30.0          8.1        49.7       117.0         88.0
.4 GOFV,RNMENTS                           58.4        72.9       196.6        140.9        69.7       189.6        259.1
.5 OF WHICH CENTRALLY PLANNED
ECONOMIES (2)                           2.6        21.4        56.t          4.2         1.7        10.0          5.0
.6 SUPPLIERS                              25.0       133.6        29.7         72,7         7.0        23.4         21.9
.7 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                   .0           .0          .0                       .0          .0          .0
.8 BONDS                                                       .0          .0                .0           .0          .0
.9 PUltIC LOANS NEI                         .0          .0          .0           .0           .0          .0          .0
3. OTH-ER MSLT LOANS (WHERE
AVAiLABLE)                               .0                       .0                       .0          .0          .0
MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. GRANT ELEMENT OF TOTAL
CI)INIMITMENTS                      45.000O      27.100      55.760      39.800       64.400      63.293      65.385
2.  AVERAGE INTEREST RATE                  .037        D05t         .020      3 .040         .021        .023        .023
3.  AVERAGE MATURITY (YEARS)             23.700      13.600      28.300       20.500      35.400      30.549       33.492
-------------------------------------
1/ NET FOREIGN ASSETS: US$ EQUIVALENT OF LINE 31, IFS.
2/ INCLUDES CMEA COUNTRIES, PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA, NORTH
KOREA, NORTH VIETNAM.
DATE OF LATEST UPDATE 02/16/79



Annex I
SRI LAN~KA                                        Page 6 of 6 pages
D E B T    A N D    C R E D I T W O R T H I N E S S
----------------------------------------------_____
1973       1974       1975        1976       1977        1978
A CT U A L                           ES_T.
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
------------------------------------------
TOTAL DEBT OUTSTANDING (DOD
END OF PERIOD)                       484.8      587.3       598.0      702.3       787.0      976.5
INCLUDING UNDISBURSED                  680.1      875.7      997.0      1103.8      1217.9     1458.7
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE                    -54.6      -68.9      -138.4     -126.8     -124.0       -94.9
INTEREST                             -15.5      -16.5      -20.6       -23.1      -22.1       -22.8
OTHER l.&LT DEBT SERVICE                  .0          .0         .0          .0         .0          .0
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                     -54.6      -68.9      -138.4     -126.8     -124.0       -94.9
DEBT BURDEN
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                      12.9       12.1        22.0       20.2        15.0       10.3
DEBT SERVICE RATIO (1)                  13.5       12.4        22.4       20.4        15.1       10.4
DEBT SERVICE/GDP                         2,7        2.7         5.2        5.2         4.4        3.8
PUB. DEST SERVICE/GOV. REVENUE          15.7       10.0        19.0       20.0        23.5       14.7
TERMS
INT. ON TOTAL DOD/TOTAL DOD              3.2        2.8         3.4        3.3         2.8        2.3
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL DOD            11.3       11.7        23.1       18.1        15.8        9.7
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT
_______________________________
GROSS DISB./IMPORTS (INCL.NFS)          18.8       20.0        19.7       31.0        20.1       25.3
NET TRANSFER/IMPORTS(INCL.NFS)           6.6        10.6        2.4       12.3         3.5       16.1
NET TRANSFER/GROSS DISB.                34.9       52.9        12.1       39.7        17.4       63.9
EXPOSURE
IBRO D0SB./GROSS TOTAL DISB.             6.5        3.4         3.6        1.6         1.3         .6
BANK GROUP DISB./GROSS TOTAL
DISBURSEMENTS                         12.4       10.9        '2.2        4.0         8.7        5.6
IBRD DOD/TOTAL DOD                       6.6        5.8         6.1        5.1        4.4         3.3
BANK GROUP DOD/TOTAL DOD                 9.5       10.0       '12.5       11.3        11.3       10.3
IBRO DEBT SERVICE/TOrAL DEBT
SERVICE                                8.0        7.4         4.0        4.7        4.9         6.1
BANK GROUP DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL
DEBT SERVICE                           8.1        7.5         4.2        5.0         5.2        6.5
OUTSTANDING DEC. 31, 1977
EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                               AMOUNT    PERCENT
______________________________                               ------    -------
IBRD                                                           34.3        4.4
BANK GROUP                                                     39.0       11.3
OTHER MULTILATERAL                                             43.B        5.6
GOVERNMENTS                                                   574.9       73.0
OF WHICH CENTRALLY PLANNED ECONOMIES (2)                     52.        6.7
SUPPLIERS                                                      79.2       10.1
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                                           .1         .0
BONDS                                                            .0          .0
PUBLIC DEBT NEI                                                  .0         .0
TOTAL PUBLIC M&LT DEBT                                        767.0      100.0
OTHER PUBLIC M&LT DEBT                                           .0          .0
OTHER M&LT DEBT                                                  .0          .0
TOTAL PUBLIC DEBT (INCLUDING UNDISBURSED)                    1217.9      154.8
TOTAL M & LT DEBT (INCLUDING UNDISBURSED)                    1217.9      154.8
DEBT PROFILE
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1978-82/TOTAL DOD END OF 1977               63.2
1/INCLUDING NET DIRECT INVESTMENT INCCME
2/INCLUDES CMEA COUNTRIES, PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA,
NORTH KOREA, NORTH VIETNAM.



- 32 -                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                    Amount (net of
Credit                                                     cancellations)
No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose             Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Six loans and five credits fully disbursed             42.4   36.0
636     1969   Ceylon
Electricity
Board         Power                  16.5             0.3
653     1970   Sri Lanka        Mahaweli Ganga
Development I       14.5             2.8
372     1973   Sri Lanka        Power Transmission             6.0     0.2
504     1974   Sri Lanka        Dairy Development              9.0     7.6
566     1975   Sri Lanka        DFC - Industrial III           4.5     0.9
595     1975   Sri Lanka        Agricultural Devel-
opment                      25.0     7.1
666     1976   Sri Lanka        Tank Irrigation                5.0     4.0
701     1977   Sri Lanka        Mahaweli Ganga
Development II              19.0    19.0
709     1977   Sri Lanka        Water Supply                   9.2     9.1
742     1977   Sri Lanka        DFC - Industrial IV            8.0     6.6
818     1978   Sri Lanka        Tree Crop Reha-
bilitation (Tea)            21.0    21.0
819     1978   Sri Lanka        Tree Crop Diver-
sification (Tea)            4.5      4.5
Total,                                                 73.4  147.2    83.8
of which has been repaid                             37.4    -
Total now outstanding                                  36.0  147.2
Amount sold,                             3.6
of which has been repaid               3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                      36.0  147.2
Total undisbursed                                       3.1   80.7    83.8
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of January 31, 1979)
Amount of US$ Million
Year        Obligor               Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                              -     0.1      0.1
1978  Bank of Ceylon             Development Banking      2.0     -        2.0
Total Commitment now held by IFC                    2.0    0.1      2.1



ANNEX II
- 33 -         Page 2 of 6 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 636 - Maskeliya Oya Power Project; US$16.5 million of July 28, 1969;
Effective Date:  January 19, 1970; Original Closing Date:
September 30, 1973; Revised Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The New Laksapana Hydro station is complete. The first 50 MW unit
was commissioned in February 1974 and the second 50 MW unit in July 1974. The
erection of the Polypitiya switching station 4s complete. The cost savings
of US$1.7 million on the projectarebeing used to finance an equal cost over-
run on Credit 372-CE. Final disbursements are in the process of being
completed.
Ln. No. 653 - Mahaweli Ganga Development (Irrigation/Power) Project;
US$14.5 million of January 30, 1970; Effective Date:
April 30, 1971; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1976;
Revised Closing Date: July 31, 1979
The project, now complete, is about two years behind appraisal
target. Delays were due mainly to foundation problems at Polgolla power
house and a slow start at Bowatenna diversion dam. After overcoming these
problems, the construction progressed satisfactorily. Good progress has been
recorded to date on agricultural extension and research in the project area.
The Credit (174-CE) associated with this project has been fully disbursed.
However, an unallocated amount of US$2.0 million remains in the loan which the
Government wants to utilize for the procurement of badly needed vehicles and
equipment for the operation and maintenance of project works and for other
urgent works associated with the further implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga
Development Program. This procurement is underway. The closing date of the
loan has accordingly been extended to July 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 372-CE - Power Transmission and Distribution Project; US$6.0 million
of April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 5, 1973; Original
Closing Date: December 31, 1976; Revised Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The major part of the physical construction is complete. Completion
of the project will be during 1979 although disbursement from Credit 372-CE
and the cost overrun of US$1.7 million being financed from Loan 636-CE were
substantially completed by December 31, 1978. A major tariff increase of
about 100% was introduced from December 1, 1978 which will enable the CEB to
meet a 9% rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in 1979 and 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



34 -            ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The original project, as appraised in 1973, was designed to increase
milk production on about 2,400 dairy farms covering 42,000 acres in the Coco-
nut Triangle and Mid Country of Sri Lanka by providing credit, technical
assistance and a strengthened milk collection, transport and marketing system.
Complementary objectives were to establish pilot units for commercial calf
rearing and pasture management systems; and provide processing equipment to
the National Milk Board. However, progress was severely constrained by the
poor supply of cattle available for onlending to project borrowers. The poor
supply of cattle was due to import problems and an over-estimation of the
national herd at appraisal stemming from unreliable Government statistics.
Moreover, unrestricted slaughter of cattle was stimulated by a rapid increase
in concentrate feed prices which made milk production unattractive plus the
relatively high consumer price of fish and poultry meat. It, therefore,
became necessary to reformulate the project. The revised project, still under
discussion with the Government, would focus on what was a small component of
the original project-support to dairy cooperatives. Under this component,
dairy farmers would be organized in a manner similar to the successful Anand
pattern of Dairy Cooperatives in India. The Government has requested the
National Dairy Development Board (India) to help evaluate the potential of
such an approach and the Chairman of NDDB visited Sri Lanka in December 1978
to evaluate Sri Lanka's technical assistance needs for the proposed approach.
Consequently, the supply of inputs and services would become key activities
of the revised project, which would include provision of technical assistance
and credit to farmers and support for milk collection, transport and marketing.
Preliminary proposals have already been received and accepted by IDA to expand
the successful ongoing calf/heifer rearing and pilot pasture programs. The
number of beneficiary farm families would be substantially increased (current
estimate approximately 10,000 vs. 2,400 in the original project) and the
project would contribute to a considerable increase in income of existing
landless and small farmer dairy producers. Government's strong commitment
to the proposed revised project approach is evidenced by the recent Cabinet
approval to provide adequate incentives to dairy production in Sri Lanka.
Cr. No. 566 - Third Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$4.5 million of June 27, 1975; Effective Date:
August 22, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The credit was designed to meet the estimated foreign exchange
requirements of the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) for
lending mainly to export industries and tourism. The credit has been fully
committed and is likely to be fully disbursed by the closing date.



ANNEX II
- 35 -            Page 4 of 6 pages
Cr. No. 595 -  Agricultural Development Project; US$25.0 million of
December 24, 1975; Effective Date:  March 1, 1976;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The original closing date of June 30, 1978 has been extended to
June 30, 1979 to allow full utilization of credit funds. Disbursements
continue to be slow and only if the Project Coordinating Committee and the
participating agencies take quick actions as agreed with IDA will it be
possible to commit the remaining US$4.9 M out of a total of US$7.1 M undis-
bursed before the new closing date. Funds still available are for import
of spare parts for machinery rehabilitation programs of the Department of
Agriculture and the Department of Machinery and Equipment, and the importation
of about 300 tractors for farmers and 75 4-wheel drive vehicles for the two
estate corporations' field supervisory work.
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of the first two tanks is now about one year behind
schedule but construction equipment has arrived and construction progress has
begun to pick up significantly. Unfortunately, quality control has been neg-
lected (either through lack of training and experience or through negligence)
and some of the completed works are poorly constructed. Some of these works
will have to be reconstructed or water losses and O&M costs will be unaccept-
ably high. The Government has agreed to take action to improve quality
control and closely monitor future work and will reconstruct those facilities
which do not function properly after operation commences. In this regard, a
quality control training program was provided by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation
in the USA for three Irrigation Department engineers during November-December
1978 and it is hoped that construction quality will improve to the levels
required. A well-qualified Water Management Specialist has arrived (part-time)
to set up a water management training program for Irrigation Department staff
and farmers and much improvement is expected in this area. A full-time
resident Project Manager has been appointed and coordination and construction
progress are expected to improve. Project completion is expected to be
delayed about one year.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million of
April 21, 1977; Effective Date (planned): September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Government has undertaken development of the project on an
accelerated basis and had planned to complete the project within one year.
This proved to be an overly optimistic target and the Government now is
striving to complete the project by end 1979. Unfortunately, in its haste to
meet set target dates, Mahaweli Development Board (MDB) initiated work in all
areas of the project on an ad hoc basis, by-passed certain work required in



- 36 -             ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
preparing lands for settlement, sacrificed construction quality standards and
practices requisite to works of good quality, changed portions of the main
canal alignment where difficulties were encountered and embarked upon settle-
ment actions without ensuring that necessary support programs and infrastruc-
ture development would be in place when settlement of the lands was done.
The Government has agreed to take action to improve quality control and
closely monitor all work in the future. In this regard, a quality control
training course was provided by the US Bureau of Reclamation in the USA for
four MDB engineers during November/December 1978 and it is hoped that con-
struction quality will improve to the levels required. A Resident Project
Manager has recently been appointed, filling a vacancy that has existed for
more than a year, and project implementation and coordination activities are
expected to improve considerably. Project completion may be advanced by about
1-1/2 years earlier than estimated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of May 10, 1977; Effective
Date: February 9, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Good progress has been made in implementing institutional changes,
introducing a new bulk water tariff, establish new accounting procedures both
in the National Water Supply and Drainage Board and in local authorities.
Although almost all of the procurement documents have been completed, only
one contract for the purchase of equipment for the project has been awarded.
Several bids for civil works and equipment have been received but progress
has been slow in bid analysis and contract award. Draft contracts for a
tariff study in the project area and for engineering services have been
finalized.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit will meet a substantial portion of DFCC's estimated
foreign exchange requirements over a two-year period for lending to private
sector industrial projects and tourism. Subprojects for US$4.1 million
have been authorized. DFCC remains a competent institution, with a rapidly
increasing level of activity, which could increase further provided that
DFCC's staffing problems are overcome as well as the constraint caused by
the low equity base.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The implementation schedule calls for the following preparatory
actions to be taken during this year:



- 37 -           ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
(a) a factory and field rationalization study followed by
preparation of tender documents for factory equipment;
(b) preparation of standard estate labor housing plans fol-
lowed by tender documents for construction; and
(c) preparation of tender documents for vehicles/tractors.
Progress has generally been satisfactory although the factory rationalization
study and preparation of standard housing plans will be completed about 3
months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Project progress is encouraging and gathering momentum not least
because of national political support for the project. Staff recruitment
of the National Agricultural Diversification and Settlement Authority (NADSA)
is nearly complete. The officers have been posted in the field and field
activities such as development of nurseries for planting materials, identi-
fication of housing clusters, soil conservation works, and some planting of
shade trees and pepper vines under existing shade trees have already started.
Lack of soil conservation officers and delay in procurement process is
affecting the pace of project implementation. Credit effectiveness date had
to be extended twice since the Attorney General had not received full docu-
mentary evidence of land transfer to NADSA, but has now been declared effec-
tive (December 15, 1978).



ANNEX III
-38 -                   Page I of 2 pages
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
15 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Different agencies of the GOSL coordinated by the
Ministry of Plan Implementation with the assistance
of UNDP, CIDA and IDA missions.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the
first mission to consider the project
October 1976 - November 1976
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
March 1978
August 1978 (Follow-up appraisal mission)
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
February 23, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 29, 1979
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



- 39 -                 ANNEX III
Page 2 ot 2 pages
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)  the Project Coordination Committee and the Project
Steering Committee would be established with compo-
sition and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
(paras 50 and 51); a Project Director would be ap-
pointed with experience, qualifications and respon-
sibilities satisfactory to IDA (para 51);
(b)  the organizational structure, arrangements, and work
program for agricultural extension in the Project
area would be established and maintained under terms
satisfactory to the Association (para 52);
(c)  selection of village irrigation schemes for rehabil-
itation under the project would be in accordance with
criteria agreed upon by IDA (para 52);
(d)  the detailed work program under the project for the
following calendar year would be submitted to IDA,
not later than October 31 of each preceding year for
comments (para 53); and
(e)  the Government would enter into subsidiary agreements,
satisfactory to the Association, with the Peoples' Bank
and the Bank of Ceylon for the provision of agricultural
credit under the proposed project (condition of effec-
tiveness, para 55).






79045'                               SRI LANKA           80000                                                       80015'
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                         Boy cf Bengal
PHYSICAL FEATURES AND PRINCIPAL LAND USE
/ ANURADHAPURA(AN5ADP   T   A
Rubber4/
Forest Resernes                                                   .                                                          i        A        55fl1  ICL
Coconuts                                                     -SPu!
Paddy Land
Chena and other usage                                                                                                      KEL          s\  I    AWA
Agro-Climralic Regions                                                                                                        \ RAMSPN5RAGALA
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~00'                                                                                                       SA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LLE    'OAA n
-8 00                                                                                    b           <                                               iwiin
lrcjion Oceon
80030'
A ,~~~~0                i          1  20 ,       + f0   
:   Ll                     ~~~~~KILOMETERS                    -<ji-;-                                           --        
:  \   n         ~~~0 10                                   r          -M                          5-\           ..,    
0 0 ) 40q ~~~~MILES ,.-- -.
WS\ \  I            vJ%7                 :          fS    <                 ;7   .                ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 AIATAL
ttPUTTALAM MTL
7*451                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7045'
KND
INDIAAN OCEAN
This map has bee prepared by the
Worldd Bnk'ssta ff -eclusiely fhe
the cnenn   f tet readers for                                                 KEGALLA                                   K
the nport to which iris attached
The denominain used ard the                                                                                                  V
do nof imply, on the part of the
Wevld Bank and its affiliates,an 
judgment on the legal sraru of                                                                                          f 
ay ttit-y oay ndremt                                                                                                   7
000 oracceranceofsuchboundaries                  .                                 -                                         Jn 
0 j ; :0    0 2 Xr  0   : ts80 000C                                                                    80/ |'S                                                      801 30' =6






79045'                                               80 00                                                    80015                               -
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
* J'AUN
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                            NNARS r
POPULATION { Populaton Density per Square Mile}                                                                                        C ,
.Less 'thr' 450
450 -  900                                                                                   ANURADHAPURA                  RAUADHAPURAk
UAbove 900                                                                                                                              POONNAR
HEALTH FACILITIES 
U   General Hlospito                                                                                                                    MTL
AL      Dstrict Hospitals
*76    r,Peripheral Units                                                                                                             'ALL
u    Hospitals /' ;  /7   /I                                                    7/          /         KGL                              AJA
O       Other Health Fac litier
Areas of Dehcient Drinring Woter Supply of                  I
Roads
Railways
-.--District Boundaries
-- - Electroial Boundaries                                                                                                                         810
7045'~ ~ ~~~~~~~1
u   r   x^fW RS                                   4                                     )ILOMmER
AM,\\j            4oooo                                   2                 80l 5 I  n                                               8      0     -
%                                                                                            k~~~~~~~~~~I<
A00                                               80I5 IYA730' ~
wk.






79045'                                             80000                                                8ao15'
SRI LANKA                                                                                                  uy o: Beis9ol
//  % Ss -fW~~~~Ba  of sengoI
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\JVAVUN
MAJOR IRRIGATION WORKS AND                                                                                                         ANNOOS
RURAL 'ELECTRIFICATION                                   -
TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                      ANURADHAPURA                  IONOANU-.APURA(
132KV                                                                   /oLONNOR5 
66KV
33KV                                 <                             f           AA^                                      BTI 
33KV lines Under Construction                                                                          i                 A  
Substations                                       G L A         U        2\W        lavml   jus           iDB         'U-ARAj.ADULLAR
*  Grid Substations                                                                                                   EL    ;\/( IY.4<oDAAGLL
PROPOSED WORKS/*                                                                          /                        U^^^9PRA                  1 
-8 000                       A       Villiages to be Electrilied                                                                          I .an
^ Major irrigation tanks Rehabilitation                          Gai F 0a.                                 Oce,r ti
X ~~~~~~~~Roads    Tak / _.  /803
\ | l | Railways                                                                                                             80'30 \  mhanpIl
Elector,al Boundaries                                                            T-k
:;  \                    ~~~~~KILOMTERS              .          |                                      M       e         y;                                    .
0 9 \ 0 ! \ H < I ~~~~~~~~~~~~imbiriyf     hklwa -
1}K0NDIAPia                                                                                                            YAAHW
COLOMBO                                          CKAUDAWATTE/ASWERDUMA
3  c eofMee*oe         0                                        ./ of                                           7HINDAGOLLA. MEEGALLA & GALAPITAMULLA7
Rambe~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
~~h>w:M4id)Xed  2 \                     /                  |                           (;iPANAGAMUWA/OGADALPOLAR                      ,/POLA  7
40aZ<e=o*fi>.:   L            t                                 )                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~1DUNUKEWATTE                                     m1
0000'\&   a o o o o               .                80 ,15'>                                              80  30' 






79045'                                                                             80,000                       80015          /
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRANSPORT NETWORK
\ -\  URADHAPU  '          U R AD HAPURA    - ANF'
PROPOSED PROJECT ROADS                                                                   ANR/-ttR                                   POA
Grave Surtaced Roads
EX_STINO  ROADS
Class A                                  >    GALGAMUWA  __                 ago  ow4o  <   .                                    C \
Class B                                                 o
Class C    Metlc Ind Ta rred
-800'                       ---    Closs C    Grove                                (r                                                            Ii        "r i       A        ';
----  Class D    Meola and Tarred                     .   /            Galgamow     .                                            MAR A,ne
Cr-ss D    Gravel /
-v----------r-Rai ways                                                                                                                        80130'
5 -   -     -  DistricT Boundoaries
Electoral Boundaries
KILOMTERS
017                           lo                                                               K ,
7 t 03W  -        M(ae                ~           ~  KUI    4T5\ i
.~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~                                                                      ~ ~~~             ~ 3t  Kueuurw  Pauwr _r  Yo\    \< iotaOsa e   /:   ATL
S  f :              f  r                             -A                                                                                                                        i~~~MILS 
4 3  i*;   8 L  if  PUTTALAM             (oAtUGA    7OA'  \              \>/D45EY                          \f\KAD
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  Drurwewnnaa Kurrojiurom                                                         t  *,rrs Kliadmaw; EAL Aok
Nagolagars Kersene  3 aswKorr Morgoiwa:ATL
2=g,! ' 07 r )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 HILC O Wetanaguafmo Bryargarn                                         2)arganruwaNcrw
r . 3; i - m- ;; i .; ~~~~~z(@Nt90mDO             j!         /                ($ NaTpil0 sorw ma Koroa mte        Aces Gatoat MsoeosoaSor                   40 -w
* ffi > C .    -  ;5<  >   COLOMBO                sg       /          ) ~ ~~~~~ a)j Arsaeao.arae Paranaganra      445 Erseelorrondtga                         ccigw
.. 5 .f ''@ ''',, i ':,:ti,: ' \: i \\ /-)  97) Aegalarawia Mahasranegara                                         2d Alugara Ncecer             _.go
Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
j -  - . i i ' i i\%  i 01     //                   i                faDi Hantaneagma Rid'Vma        (2:) G;gamuws Neripwiva                         W1~~~~~r it
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  I ;i    t t\>                                                 1)Elwl  osd                      2/A^s                      auuY  
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rK+i2='- 'iy-.i                                                     RA\4    to.5Z1    tuuar  aaTm                  rpaad   
Bl \          R&Y       KB 00                                              1)Mhakdw.  aa-6RNGY              2AgrScoli 
Y,or-drr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



