Document of
The World Bank                                     y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2292a-CE
SRtI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 8, 1979
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =   Rs 15.5
Rs 1            =   US$0.065
Rs 1 million    =   US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 long ton  = 2,240 lb              =    1.016 metric tons
1 hundredweight (cwt)
= 50.8 kg                      =    112 lb
1 bushel (bu) of paddy              -    45 lb
l pint                              =    0.57 liters
1 acre (ac)                         =    0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                         =    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)               =    640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)                         =    30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 chain                           '      66 ft.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADA       -    Agricultural Development Authority
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
ARTI      -    Agrarian Research and Training Institute
ASD       -    Agrarian Services Department
BC        -    Bank of Ceylon
CB        -    Central Bank
CCB       -    Coconut Cultivation Board
CEB       -    Ceylon Electricity Board
CFC       -    Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation
CRI       -    Coconut Research Institute
DA        -    Department of Agriculture
DAPH      -    Department of Animal Production and Health
GOSL      -    Government of Sri Lanka
GPS       -    Guaranteed Price Scheme
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
ID        -    Irrigation Department
IRRI      -    International Rice Research Institute
LS        -    Lump Sum
M         -    Million
MADR      -    Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
MPC       -    Multi-Purpose Cooperatives
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
PB        -    People's Bank
PMB       -    Paddy Marketing Board
PS        -    Prudent Shopping



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FREQUENTLY USEI) ABBREVIATIONS FOR OFFICERS
AGA       -    Assistant Government Agent
Al        -    Agricultural Instructor
A',       -    Agricultural Officer
CDO       -    Coconut Development Officer
DAEO      -    District Agricultural Extension Officer
GA        -    Government Agent
KVS       -    Village Level Worker (Krushikarma Viyaptha Sevaka)
Pb        -    Project Director
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
T:        -    Techni-al Assistant
GLOSSARY
anicut          -    diversion scheme
asweddutpized   -    leveled and bunded land suitable for impounding
water. By tradition, this is used
interchangeably with paddy land.
ayurvedic       -    indigenous system of medicine.
chena           -    slash and burn or "shifting" agriculture
district        -    the principal administrative unit in the country.
'here are 24 districts in Sri Lanka.
kurakkan        -    ringer millet:
maha            -    northeast monsoon season (October to January)
mammoty         -    hand hoe
manioc          -    cassava, the plant from which tapioca is made
paddy           -    unhusked rice
tank            -    reservoir for local rainwater storage
yala            -    southwest monsoon season (March to June)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTORAL BACKGROUND ....................................            L
General ...........................................           L
Role of Agriculture in the Economy.                           2
Performance and Problems ...........................          2
Objectives and Strategy for the Future.                       3
Integrated District Developmient Programs ..
Bank Group Support to Agrictlture.                            5
II. THE PROJECT AREA .
Location and Demography                 .5
Climate and Physiograph            .. . .
A. Climate ..
B. Topography ancd Soils              .6
C.   Water Resources ard Drainage.                      7
Agricultural Production                .         .8
A. Land Use.                                            8
B.   Farm Size and Land Tenure.                         9
C.   Farming Practices, Yields and Production          10
Agricultural Supporting Services    .          .12
A.  Research and Extersion .12
B. Farm Input Supplies .14
C.   Agricultural Credit ......... .    .........      15
D.   Marketing and Processing           .16
E.   Coordination of Irput Supplies.                   17
Social Infrastructure and Living Standards                   17
A.   Transport and Comnunications.                     17
B. Electrification.                                    13
C. Water Supply.                                       13
D. Health Facilities .19
E.   Educational Facilities .19
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited
Sri Lanka in March/April 1978, and incLuded Messrs. P. Garg, P.N. Gupta and
S.Z. Husain (IDA); and Ng Siew Kee, Z. Matmor, and H. Vieilhescaze (Consu'Ltants).
A follow-up mission composed of Messrs P. Garg and P.N. Gupta visited Sri
Lanka in August 1978.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
Page No.
III. THE PROJECT                           ..                             20
Objectives and Approach           . . .20
Detailed Features.          ..........................      21
A.   Irrigation and[ Water Management                  21
B.  Coconut Develu)pment .24
C.   Agricultural Extension .26
D.   Agricultural Input Supplies .27
E. Agricultural Credit .27
F.   Livestock.          ..........................   30
G.   Groundwater E::ploration .30
H. Rural Roads .                                      31
I. Rural Water Supply .31
J.  Rural Electrification .32
K. Health .                                           32
L. Education .                                        33
M.   Project Coord:nation and
Investigations .33
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT .34
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures                 34
Financing ..........................                        37
Procurement ..........................                      37
Disbursements .38
Accounts and Audits .40
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION .40
Implementation Responsiriility .40
Coordination and Manageaient .42
Implementation Schedule .44
Monitoring and Evaluation .45
Technical Assistance .46
Operation and Maintenance .47
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS .48
Cropping Intensities, Yields
and Production .48
Market Prospects and Prices .50
Farm Incomes .51
Cost Recovery .53
Impact on the Government Budget .54



-3-
Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
Page No.
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION         ............................  54
General ................................. .........      54
Production and Balance of Payments .............  ..      55
Employment ..............................    ..........  55
Social Infrastructure        ............................  55
Distributive Impact ...    ........................ .     56
Environmental Impact ..... ........... . ......  ......... .  56
Economic Rate of Return .....     .....................   56
Sensitivity and Risks                  ..............     58
Project Replicability ..... ...........o............      59
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................        60
ANNEXES
Annex I     -   Project Are.a Details
Annex 2     -   Detailed Cost EstimatEs
Annex 3     -   Financial and Economic Analyses
Annex 4     -   Related Documents and Background Papers
CHARTS
WB 20053    -   Proposed Project Orgarization
WB 20054/55 -   Implementation Schedule
MAPS
WB 13943R   -   Physical Features and Land Use
WB 13944    -   Social Infrastructure
WB 13945    -   Major Irrigation Works and Rural Electrification
WB 13946R   -   Proposed Transport Network






SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APE'RAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The island nation of Sri Lanka occupies about 25,300 sq mi (16.2 M
ac) and has an estimated population of 14.5 M or a population density of about
570 per sq mi. The population is growing at a moderate 1.6% per annum. The
average per capita income level is low -- about US$200 in 1978 and has grown
only by about 1% per year over the past two decades. About 40% of the popula-
tion is estimated to have annual income levels below the "official" poverty
level of about US$50 per capita. 1/ However, because of the considerable
progress made by Sri Lanka in satisfying many of the basic needs of its popu-
lation through a relatively well developed social infrastructure as well as
the food subsidy program for the poor, poverty in Sri Lanka does not take
the extreme form found in neighboring South Asian countries.
1.02      About three-quarters of Sri Lanka's population live in rural areas.
Although the proportion of urban population has increased steadily from about
12% in 1901 to the current 23%, much of the increase has been due to the growth
and reclassification of small rural towns into urban areas. The influx of
rural population into major urban metropolitan areas has been rather modest
and this can be largely attributed to the:
(a)  relatively low and steadily narrowing rural-urban income
differentials;
(b)  low incidence of rural landlessness;
(c)  well dispersed social infrastructure such as health, educq-
tion and transport facilities; and
(d)  uniform application of the various food subsidy programs to
both the rural and urban population.
Because of the relatively slow growth of the major metropolitan areas, Sri
Lanka has largely avoided the problems of urban congestion and decay, typical
in many other developing countries.
1.03      Based on the rainfall pattern, the island can be divided into two
distinct zones: the wet zone (average annual rainfall of 75-200 inches) in
1/   Based on the cutoff level used in determining eligibility for subsidized
food rations.



-2-
the southwest quadrant, and the dry zone (average annual rainfall 35-75 inches)
covering the rest of the island. A narrow transition band between the dry
and the wet zone is sometimes characterized as the third climatic zone, the
intermediate zone. 1/ About three-quarters of the population reside in the
wet zone, giving it an average population density of about 1,800 per sq mi
compared to only 200 per sq mi in the dry zone. Until about 1950, much of the
growth took place in the wet zone. Since then, however, successive govern-
ments have heavily emphasized the development and settlement of the dry zone.
As a result, during the past few decades the growth rate in the dry zone has
far exceeded that for the wet zone. This trend is likely to continue for
the foreseeable future.
Role of Agriculture in the Economy
1.04      Agriculture plays a major role in Sri Lanka's economy, accounting
for about one-third of the Gross Domestic Product, over one-half of total
employment, about 80% of export earnings and a large share of public revenues.
Much of the activity in manufacturing, transport and the service sectors also
relates to either supply of inputs to agriculture or processing of agricul-
tural produce. In the rural areas, the dependence on agriculture is almost
total with over 95% of the rural population involved in agriculture, directly
or indirectly.
1.05      Sri Lanka's climate is suitable for year-round cultivation.  The
variations in precipitation, topography and soils make it possible to grow a
wide range of crops including tea, rubber, coconuts, paddy, tubers and roots,
coarse grains, pulses, vegetables and fruits. Out of some 5.5 M ac under
permanent cultivation, 1.6 M ac are under paddy, 1.2 M ac under coconut,
0.6 M ac under tea, 0.5 M ac under rubber, 0.1 M ac under other perennial
crops and the remaining 1.5 M ac under mixed rainfed farming, mostly as small
gardens around homesteads. In addition, about 2.5 M ac are under slash and
burn type shifting agriculture locally known as chena cultivation. Typically,
only about one-fifth of the chena land is cultivated in any year. Where
sufficient water is available, it is common practice to produce two or more
crops a year. The cropping intensity on paddy lands ranges from about 175%
in the wet zone to about 110% in the dry zone, the average for the whole
country being about 130%.
1.06      Tea and rubber are primarily export crops providing about 60% of
total export earnings and through export taxes and duties, about 40% of
Government revenues. Coconut is also exported although only as a residual,
after satisfying the quite substantial domestic demand for the various
coconut products. Paddy and most other food crops are grown solely for
domestic consumption.
Performance and Problems
1.07      The agricultural performance over the past two decades has been
rather mixed. There have been modest increases in production and employment
1/   The Kurunegala District, the proposed project area, mostly falls with-
in this transition zone.



and some progress has been made towards food self-sufficiency. The sector
has, however, been unable either to provide a major stimulus to the rest of
the economy or to make any significant dent in the chronic unemployment
problem faced by Sri Lanka.
1.08      During the 1960s, agricultural production grew at an annual rate of
3.4% with a relatively good growth in paddy (6%) and rubber (5%), but a meager
1% growth in tea and coconut. The increased paddy production enabled sub-
stantial progress towards food self-sufficiency -- from about 50% in 1960
to about 80% in 1970. However, despite this, the net surplus (in current
prices) on trading of agricultural commodities declined from about US$200 M in
1960 to only US$120 M in 1970 due to stagnation in tea and coconut production
as well as adverse price trends in externaL markets. Performance in the 1970s
has been much worse. Except for subsidiary food crops and minor export crops
such as spices, production virtually stagnated or even declined. Paddy pro-
duction in 197, for example, was only 5% above the level achieved in 1970.
For tea, rubbEr and coconut, production remained below the levels attained
in 1970.
1.09      The generally poor weather condi:ions experienced during the 1970s
are partially responsible for this inadequate performance. Mostly, houever,
the reasons are related to sectoral strateg,ies and policies over the past two
decades. The policy of import substitutioln has been partially successful, but
increased fooc. self-sufficiency has come a: the cost of a severe neglect of
the rest of the sector, particularly plantation crops. Sectoral develcpment
has also suffEred from:  (a) the inability to mobilize adequate investaent
resources for agriculture; (b) emphasis on costlier but more "visible" exten-
sive developmEnt, neglecting the more intenisive use of resources already
developed; (c) inadequate attention to operation and maintenance, which neces-
sitated frequent and costly rehabilitation; (d) ineffective and demoralized
agricultural supporting services due to in3titutional uncertainties as well
as excessive political interference; (e) iaadequate planning for disposal and
proper management of lands acquired under Land reform; and (f) a systen. of
controls, subsidies and taxes which discouraged private initiative and invest-
ment.
Objectives ancL Strategy for the Future
1.10      GOSI. recognizes the pivotal role of agriculture in stimulatir.g
economic growt:h and rural development in Sri Lanka. It is also aware of the
constraints imposed upon growth by past policies and programs. The major
objectives of GOSL's medium-term plans and programs for agriculture are to:
(a)  increase agricultural employment as well as improve
income levels, particularly for the economically dis-
advantaged groups;
(b) increase self-sufficiency in basic food items such as
paddy, milk, sugar, fish and pulses so as to improve
nutritional standards and to insulate the economy from
excessive fluctuations in external markets; and



-4-
(c) expand export earnings both from traditional agricul-
tural exports and from "non-traditional" items such
as cocoa, coffee, pepper and spices.
1.11      The Government strategy for achieving these objectives emphasizes
better utilization of the existing potential through institutional and policy
improvements as well as rehabilitation of the production base, where necessary.
Among policies and programs being given high priority by GOSL are: establish-
ment of appropriate price incentives for producers; strengthening of agricul-
tural supporting services such as research and extension, credit, iarm power
supply, and fertilizer distribution; improved irrigation water management;
improved nianagement of state controlled lands; stepped up programs for rehab-
ilitation of the plantation crops; and improvements in living conditions of
plantation labor. Through these measures, the Government hopes to step up the
agricultural growth rate to 4.5% per annum over the next five years.  With
adequate attention to implementation problems, this is an attainable target.
For the longer-term needs of the economy, the Government is also emphasizing
further expansion of irrigated agriculture in the dry zone through accelerated
developmenit of the Mahaweli River basin.
Integrated District Development Programs
1.12      To encourage grassroot participation and to reduce implementation
problems at the field level, GOSL is encouraging decentralization of planning,
monitoring and coordination.  In line with this approach, it has recently
established a District Ministerial system and appointed a Minister to each
of the 24 districts in Sri Lanka. The District Ministers, ex officio Deputy
Ministers to all the development-oriented Ministries in Sri Lanka, would
oversee and coordinate the planning and implementation of all developmental
programs 1/ in their respective districts. Overall national priorities and
policy guidelines would be established at the Colombo level. Technical guid-
ance and supervision for the field staff of various agencies and departments
would also be from the respective Headquarters in Colombo. As the District
Minister set-up has just been started, many of the detailed working procedures
are still to be worked out, and it would be some time before it is fully
operational.
1.13      The decentralization program clearly holds the potential for quick
resolution of implementation bottlenecks as well as for making development
plans more responsive to local needs and resources. The extent to which this
potential would be realized in practice would depend largely upon: (a) the
ability to avoid partisan political considerations in resource allocation
at the local level; (b) development of harmonious relationship between line
Ministries in Colombo and the District Ministers; (c) the strengthening of
planning and monitoring capabilities at the district level; and (d) the
preparation of sound technical criteria and policy guidelines for use in
the formulation of district plans.
1/   Projects and programs which are of national importance (e.g. the Mahaweli
program) would, however, continue to be handled at the central level.



1.14      To give an operational corLtent to the decentralization program, the
Government is proposing to undertake a number of Integrated District Develop-
ment Projects. Each of the districts is to be surveyed and studied and a dev-
elopment plan is to be prepared taking into consideration the leading sectors
and activities that need investment support to promote a balanced and accel-
erated growth. The district projects are to emphasize low-cost, quick--yielding,
labor-intensive investments aimed at better utilization of the existing poten-
tial by relaxing critical bottlenecks and constraints. The main advantages of
the district projects would be: (a), increased responsiveness of developmental
efforts to local needs and priorities; (b) promotion of balanced regionial
development by enabling resources to be channeled into non-Mahaweli areas; and
(c) an opportunity for balancing high-capital intensity and long-gestation of
most other developmental programs of GOSL.
1.15      The proposed project for the Kurunegala District would be the
first attempt by Sri Lanka to develop an entire district in an integrated
manner. It is expected that over the next decade most districts in SrL Lanka
would be covered by similar projects. Proposals for development of two other
districts, Hambantota and Matara are under preparation with assistance from
Norway and Sweden, respectively.  The proposed Kurunegala project would also
include support for preparation of similar projects for four other districts
for possible financing by external agencies. The four proposals are expected
to be ready by June 1980.
Bank Group Support to Agriculture
1.16      During the last several years, Bank Group lending to Sri Lanka has
heavily emphasized agriculture and rural development. Since 1968, a total of
nine projects have been financed in this sector including:   Lift Irrigation
(Cr. 121-CE, US$2.0 M); Drainage and Reclamation (Cr. 168-CE, US$2.5 MI);
Mahaweli Ganga Development I (Ln. 653-CE, US$14.5 M and Cr. 174-CE, US$14.5
M); Dairy Development (Cr. 504-CE, UJS$9.0 M); Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 595-CE, US$25.0 M); Tank Irrigation Modernization (Cr. 666-CE, US$5.0 M);
Mahaweli Ganga Development II (Cr. 701-CE, US$19.0 M); Tea Rehabilitation
(Cr. 818-CE, US$21.0 M) and Tree Crop Diversification (Cr. 819-CE, US$4.5 M).
The first three of these projects have been successfully completed. The
others are progressing satisfactorily, although due to large scale emigration
of skilled manpower to the Middle East and Africa during the past few years,
manpower availability is beginning to be a constraint.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Domography
2.01      The proposed project would cover the entire administrative district
of Kurunegala, one of the 24 districts in Sri Lanka. The district, located
in the western part of the country, has a land area of about 1,850 sq ii
and an estimated population of 1.15 M. Kurunegala town, the district hnead-
quarters, is about 60 mi north of Colombo, the national capital (Map 13943R).



- 6 -
Kurunegala is the third largest district in the country, accounting for about
7% of the total area and 8% of the population. The district is predominantly
rural; according to the 1971 Population Census, 96% of the population was
rural compared to about 78% nationally. Kurunegala town with a population of
about 27,000 is the principal urban center in the district. All other towns
in the district have a population under 6,000. Average population density is
about 620 per sq mi. The density varies considerably within the district --
from less than 400 in the northern parts to over 1,000 per sq mi in the
southeast.
2.02      Since the early 1950s, the district has had a net outmigration to
other districts of about 2% per decade, a result of the gradual population
shift towards the dry zone as well as increasingly limited scope for opening
up of new areas within the district. The total labor force is estimated at
about 450,000. According to the 1971 Census, the unemployment rate in Kurune-
gala was about 14%, somewhat lower than the national average of 19% but con-
siderably higher than 5-10% found in most dry zone districts. About two-thirds
of employment is in the agriculture sector; manufacturing and mining accounted
for about 10%; construction about 2% and the service sector for the rest. As
elsewhere in the country, health and educational standards are generally quite
high; the literacy rate is over 85% and life expectancy is about 68 years.
Climate and Physiography
A.   Climate
2.03      The climate in the project area is tropical with only slight varia-
tions in temperatures but heavy, variable rainfall (Annex 1, Table 1). Annual
precipitation follows a distinctly bi-modal pattern, particularly in the south-
ern part. The northeast monsoon (maha season) brings rainfall to the whole
district during October-December. The southwest monsoon (yala season) brings
rainfall mostly to the southern part during March to June.
2.04      On the basis of precipitation, the district can be divided into
four distinct zones: dry, semi-dry, semi-wet, and wet zones (Map 13943) with
mean annual rainfall of below 60, 60-75, 75-90 and over 90 inches, respectively.
The intermediate zones (semi-dry and semi-wet) cover about 70% of the district,
the dry zone covers about 20%, and the wet zone about 10%. The total amount
as well as distribution of rainfall varies considerably from year to year.
Frequently, rainfall occurs in the form of high intensity storms, resulting in
limited soil storage and excessive run off. Run off estimates indicate that
only about 60% of the rainfall received is effective. Probability data indi-
cate that rainfall is generally adequate for rainfed crop production during
the maha season in all parts of the district. During the yala season, rainfed
paddy production is feasible in the wet and semi-wet zones but at considerable
risk. The total rainfall in semi-dry and dry zones is inadequate for the
economical cultivation of coconut.
B.   Topography and Soils
2.05      The topography slopes gently downward from south to north and towards
the coastal plain. Except in areas adjoining Kandy and Matale Districts, the



- 7 -
elevation ranges from about 50-2,000 ft above mean sea level. In addition to
the general slope, there are local urLdulations in surface relief related. to
the stream patterns in the district.
2.06      Soils in the district vary considerably as regards texture and
drainability. The texture varies from moderately fine (reddish brown earths
and low humic gleys) to coarse (regosols), and drainability from poor (low
humic gleys) to well drained (reddish brown earths).  The soils have a shallow
profile, mostly varying in depth from about 2-5 ft. The PH values indicate
that most soils in the district are slightly acidic to neutral. All the soils
are low in nutrients and fertilizing is essential for good crop yields. The
combination of the various soil textures and drainage characteristics with
different rainfall patterns makes it possible to grow a wide range of cr'ops
in the district.
C.   Water Resources and Drainage
2.07      The drainage pattern of the district is predominantly from south
to north and east to west, with most streams originating from the central hills
of the island and flowing towards the western coast. The major streams flowing
through the district are: Karambalan Oya, Maha Oya, Deduru Oya and Mi Oya.
Most of these streams are perennial, although with large variation in flows
from month to month.  The streams generally feed either major irrigation tanks
or diversion schemes. Recently, two lift irrigation schemes serving a total
estimated area of 1,000 ac have been constructed on Maha Oya. Reliable data
on stream flows is unavailable and hence, it is difficult to make any defini-
tive judgment about the potential for further irrigation development from
these streams. Clearly, however, thiere is scope for some additional lift
irrigation schemes, particularly for supplementary yala irrigation in the
intermediate zone. For longer term lplanning and development, it is essential
to initiate systematic monitoring of the various stream flows.
2.08      Because of relatively high rainfall and run offs, conditions are
favorable for surface water storage for irrigation during dry periods. This
potential was recognized from the earliest times and numerous tanks, big and
small, were constructed. With the passage of time, most of these fell into
disuse until restoration during the past few decades. Currently, there are
nine major operating tanks in the district with service areas ranging from
about 800 to 5,000 ac (Map 13945 and Annex 1, Table 2). The total service
area for the nine tanks is estimated at about 25,000 ac. There are also about
3,000 village tanks and 600 village anicuts (diversion schemes) with a poten-
tial service area of about 95,000 ac. However, due to inadequate maintenance,
many of the village irrigation schemes are in poor condition and actual
service areas are considerably below the potential. Currently, the total
service area under the village schemes is estimated at about 70,000 ac.
2.09      As in the rest of the country, poor management practices are the
most serious constraint to the effective use of irrigation facilities. Largc
amounts of water are wasted because of excessive surface run off, improper
channel distribution systems, excessive seepage, insufficient control of water
issues, improper operation of sluice gates, over application of irrigation



-8-
water and delayed and staggering planting leading to poor utilization of
rainfall. Currently, average water duty in irrigated areas is estimated
at about 5 ac-ft per ac for maha paddy and 7 ac-ft per ac for yala. With
rehabilitation of the conveyance systems and adoption of improved water man-
agement practices, these duties could be reduced by as much as one-third (Annex
1, Table 3). GOSL is aware of the potential for increased production through
better management of water resources. Recent policy decisions place heavy
emphasis on improved irrigation water management and provide an encouraging
setting for action in this crucial area.
2.10      The hydrogeological conditions and groundwater resources in the
district are yet mostly unexplored. However, as most of the district is
underlain by crystalline rock, prospects of economically exploitable ground-
water are likely to be limited. Some 30 test wells have been drilled in the
district over the past few years and a total of ten shallow tubewells with low
yields are in testing operations. The investigations have been limited due to
the lack of suitable equipment for drilling in crystalline rock. The existence
of some 85,000 village wells (some of them inoperative) indicates the presence
of localized groundwater resources with constituting aquifers in unconsolidated
sediments and fractures, joints and other openings in weathered parts of the
crystalline rocks. Further exploration is required for identification of
areas with groundwater potential.
2.11      Practically the entire district is free from deep or prolonged
flooding and there are no severe drainage problems.
Agricultural Production
A.   Land Use
2.12      Out of the total land area of some 1.2 M ac, about 0.6 M ac are
under permanent cultivation, 0.1 M are forests, 0.1 M ac are under non-
agricultural uses such as settlements, roads and water bodies and the rest
are under chena cultivation. Coconut and paddy are the two most important
crops covering about 380,000 ac and 170,000 ac, respectively. For both
coconut and paddy, Kurunegala has the highest acreage among all the districts
in Sri Lanka, accounting for about 35% and 13% of the respective crop acreages
in Sri Lanka. Rubber is cultivated on some 15,000 ac. Mixed rainfed farming
(mostly as small gardens around homesteads) including fruits, vegetables,
spices and pulses accounts for the remaining 35,000 ac under permanent cul-
tivation. The cropped area and the crop mix under chena cultivation vary from
year to year according to climatic and market conditions. Data on land use
under chena cultivation is hard to obtain and notoriously unreliable. On a
crude basis, an average of about 100,000 ac are cropped under chena farming
each year, the main crops being: manioc and tubers, 50,000 ac; kurakkan and
other coarse grains, 20,000 ac; vegetables, 15,000 ac; and pulses, 15,000 ac.
Most of the coconut and rubber land is in the southern part of the district
with a wet/semi-wet climate; paddy land is distributed fairly evenly in the
district while chena cultivation is mostly practiced in the less-densely
populated northern part with a dry/semi-dry climate.



-9-
B.   Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.13      Reliable and consistent data on farm sizes and land tenure in
Kurunegala district are lacking due to: (a) fragmentary nature of most past
surveys; (b) complexity of land use and tenurial practices; and (c) changes
due to land reform during 1972-75.
2.14      According to the 1973 Census of Agriculture, there were about
172,000 operational agricultural holdings in Kurunegala, including about 300
estates of 20 ac or more with ten or more resident employees. The average
operational holding size was about 4 ac comlpared to about 2.5 ac in Sri Lanka
as a whole. The estimated farm size distribution is summarized below:
Table 2.1: FARM SIZE DISTRIBUTION
Operational
Holding
Size      Number   % of Total       Area      % of Total
(ac)        '000)                 ('000 ac)
0 - 1         42         24           20             3
1 - 3         69        40           116            17
3 - 10        52         30          252            38
10- 20         5           3           66            10
20+            4           2          213            32
Total      172       100          667            100
Due to the break-up of the 50+ ac holdings during the 1972-75 land reform, the
current farm size distribution is likely to be considerably less skewed than
that indicated above. Also, larger holdings mostly consist of coconut planta-
tions while smtaller holdings contain mostly asweddumized land. Because of the
generally lower income levels on coconut lands as compared to asweddumized
lands, the skewness, adjusted for land productivity, would be even smaller.
2.15      Abott 88% of all the holdings ars privately owned, 9% are owned by
the Government and the rest belong to reli;ious and other institutions. A
variety of larnd tenure patterns prevail in the district; about half the hold-
ings are ownect singly, 10% owned jointly, 15% held as grants or leases on the
Government owELed (crown) lands, and the re3t as encroachments and other forms
of tenure. Most holdings comprise 3-4 par^els, often under different tenurial
arrangements. It is estimated that about 60% of the farm families in the dis-
trict are owner-cultivators, 30% owner-cultivator cum tenants and the lest pure
tenants. Typical tenancy arrangements involve paying the landowner 25-50% of
the produce with the landowner supplying some of the cash inputs. The tenurial
conditions and rental rates are governed by the Agricultural Lands Law of 1973.
2.16      Target Groups.  Minimum holding sizes required to provide subsistence
level incomes (US$50, para 1.01) vary considerahly with the land productivity
and tenurial arrangements, as well as earnings 'rom off-farm employment. In
most cases, however, a 3 ac holding can adequately support a family of 5-6
people. On this basis, about two-thirds of the farm families in the district
are currently below the poverty level.



- 10 -
C.   Farming Practices, Yields and Production
2.17      Coconut.  According to a 1977 survey of coconut holders in Kurunegala
District, about 80% of the palms lie within the productive age group of 7-60
years; about 10% of the palms are above 60 years old, mostly senile and requir-
ing replanting; and the rest are immature as underplantings. Only about 5% of
the coconut area was interplanted with other crops, primarily pastures, coffee,
pepper and pineapple. The planting material is almost exclusively local tall
(Typica variety) selections. The estimated mean palm stand of 69 per ac is
higher than the recommended 64 per ac. Weed control is not a serious problem
except in the 10-25 ac holdings with absentee owners. Overall, only about 5%
of coconut holders reported fertilizer use in 1977, although the proportion of
users on larger holdings (over 25 ac) was much higher at about 25%. Due to
inadequate fertilizer application, particularly during the past 3-4 years, the
palms show widespread symptoms of malnutrition and a large scale fertilizer
program is urgently needed. Contour drains to minimize soil loss and retain
soil moisture are practiced only on about 10% of the holdings. In some low-
lying areas on slope bottoms, waterlogging due to inadequate field drainage
is also a problem. In underplanted smallholdings, very often the low yielding
senile palms are retained well beyond the recommended fifth year of under
planting, and the consequent overshading by the taller palms retards the growth
of the young palms. Pests and disease infestation of mature palms is not a
serious problem in the district. Although over one-third of the coconut acre-
age is suitable for intercropping, less than 5% are intercropped at present.
2.18      Reliable data on coconut yield and production levels is unavailable.
According to the 1977 survey, the yield averaged about 1,250 nuts per ac,
a sharp decline from the reported yield of about 1,700 nuts per ac in 1975 --
mostly due to adverse weather conditions and reduced fertilizer application.
The survey also showed significant yield variation by holding size -- varying
(in 1977) from about 900 nuts per ac in holdings below 3 ac to over 1,300 nuts
for holdings above 25 ac, largely reflecting better management levels in the
bigger holdings. Even the 1975 yield level is less than half the genetic
yield potential of the existing plantations in the district indicating consider-
able scope for increasing productivity by increased use of fertilizer as well
as better management practices. On the basis of reported 1975 yield levels,
the total district production in a normal year would be about 030 M nuts.
2.19      Paddy.  Of the total asweddumized 1/ paddy area of 170,000 ac, about
25,000 ac are under major irrigation schemes, 70,000 ac under minor irrigation
schemes, and the rest under rainfed cultivation. Most of the rainfed paddy
area is in the southern part with a wetter climate. Typically, about 90% of
the asweddumized land is cultivated during the maha season and 50% during the
yala season. Sowing of the maha crop starts in October/November. Except for
tillage, cultivation is mostly carried out by manual labor. Because of inade-
quate farm power for land preparation (para 2.33) and the priority given to
chena cultivation, maha sowing is often extended into late January thus wasting
most of the maha rainfall. The crop is harvested between February and April.
1/   Leveled and bunded land suitable for impounding water.



- :11 -
Subject to water availability in the tanks, yala paddy is broadcast during
March/April for harvest in June/July. In southern parts of the district, some
rainfed yala cultivation is also praclticed. However, it is highly risky due
to the erratic rainfall pattern. Presently, paddy is mostly broadcast, al-
though transplanting and row seeding are becoming more popular. According
to a crop cutting survey during maha 1976/77, about three-quarters of farmers
in Kurunegala were using improved varieties of paddy and about two-thirds were
using fertilizer although only half of them at recommended levels.
2.20      During 1977, climatically a "good" year, average paddy yields were
about 50 bushels (1 ton) per ac 1/ during the maha season and 42 bushels
(0.85 tons) per ac during the yala season. In both cases, they were about
5% below the national average.  Ten other districts had yields higher than
those in Kurunegala with six outperforming the District by 30% or more, indi-
cating a vast potential for improvement over present levels.  Total paddY
production was estimated at about 6.3 M bus;hels (128,000 tons) during the
maha and 4.0 M bushels (82,000 tons) during the yala or a total annual pro-
duction of 10.3 M bushels (210,000 tons). The district production accounted
for about 11% of national production during maha, 16% during yala and 13%
overall. In a "normal" year, paddy production would be about 20% lower. The
trends in paddy area, yields and production levels for Kurunegala are detailed
in Annex 1, Table 4.
2.21      Chena Cultivation.  Chena agriculture is practiced in nearly all
jungle areas. Clearing and land preparation commences in June or July and is
normally completed by August. This is followed by burning. Sowing and plant-
ing on chena land commences with the maha rains towards the end of September
and extends to the end of November. Cereals (kurakkan and maize) are normally
planted first, followed by chillies and vegetables. Roots and tubers (manioc
and potatoes) and pulses (green grams and cow peas) are planted last. Crop
husbandry standards are generally low and the main inputs are labor and seeds.
Most farmers perceive chena as a hedge against total or partial failure of the
paddy crop. For this reason, only when the chena crops are secured do tlne
farmers transfer attention to paddy lands resulting in delayed maha planting
and consequent waste of rainfall. This attitude, often quite rational from
the view point of a small farmer given unreliable irrigation supplies due to
poorly maintained and operated irrigation schemes, is a major constraint to
better use of land and water resources in the district. Traditionally, chena
land was cropped once every 20-25 years. With increasing population pressure,
the fallow period is now much shorter (about 4-5 years). The shortened cycle
has serious implications for the long run productivity of the land. There
is clearly a need for developing viable settled systems of rainfed farming
to replace chena cultivation.
2.22      Data on yields and production levels of the chena crops is extremely
limited and often contradictory, partly because of the complex nature of chena
cultivation, often involving a mixture of as many as five crops in the same
1/   On net harvested area basis.  By definition, 85% of the gross harvested
area is taken as the net harvested area.



- 12 -
plot. Because of poor management standards, yields are believed to be gener-
ally low. Average per ac yields are estimated at: 4 cwt (0.2 tons) for
kurakkan and maize; 80 cwt (4 tons) for manioc and sweet potatoes; 5 cwt
(0.25 tons) for pulses such as cowpeas and green gram; and 4 cwt (0.2 tons)
for chillies. The average annual production of some of the main chena crops
over the past two years is reported to be as follows: manioc, 180,000 tons;
potatoes and yams, 35,000 tons; cowpeas and other pulses, 8,000 tons; oil-
seeds, 2,000 tons; kurakkan and other coarse grains, 3,000 tons; and chillies,
1,500 tons. The reported acreage, yield and production trends are detailed
in Annex 1, Table 5.
Agricultural Supporting Services
A.   Research and Extension
2.23      Research.  The National Rice Breeding Center (Batalagoda) and the
Coconut Research Institute (Lunwila) are located within the district. Two
other important institutes, the Dry Zone Research Station (Maha Illupalama)
and the Minor Export Crops Research Station (Matale), are both less than 50 mi
away from the district.
2.24      Sri Lanka has had a good rice breeding program.  During the 1960s,
the "H" series of locally bred varieties replaced most of the traditional
varieties. Subsequently, Sri Lanka has successfully incorporated IRRI strains
to produce varieties suitable to its own conditions. At Maha Illupallama,
considerable progress has been made in introducing and developing new varie-
ties of chillies, green gram, black gram, pigeon peas (dhal) and cowpeas.
Pioneering field research is also underway on increasing productivity of
lands under irrigation schemes through improved cropping systems and irriga-
tion water management as well as on stabilized rainfed farming syst;ems for
replacing chena cultivation. The Coconut Research Institute has recently
released f'or commercial planting new high yielding hybrids which come into
bearing in. the fifth year and have a yLeld potential of over 6,000 nuts per
ac.  However, the new hybrids require more exacting climatic and scil con-
ditions and thus are not suited to all coconut growing areas in Sri Lanka.
2.25      Extension.  Presently, several different agencies are responsible
for extension work in the district, the principal ones being: the Department
of Agriculture (DA); the Coconut Cultivation Board (CCB); the Land Commis-
sioner's Department, the Department of Minor Export Crops (DMEC); and the newly
established Department of Animal Production and Health (DAPH). Among these,
DA through its extension Division has by far the heaviest involvement. The
Division is headed by a Deputy Director whose professional staff consists of
ten senior Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) for cereals, pulses, tobacco,
plant protection, horticulture and seed certification and production. The
field operations are controlled by a District Agricultural Extension Officer
(DAEO) in each of the 24 districts. The district level staff includes district
SMSs who are usually agricultural diploma holders and who by training or experi-
ence have specialized in certain subjects. The middle level staff consists
of Agricultural Instructors (AIs), who are also agricultural diploma holders.
Each AI is assisted by a number of village level workers (KVS) who have taken
one year training in the Practical Farm Schools.  The number of KVSs per Al



- 13 -
varies with the area of the range covered by the AI and its production
potential.
2.26      The Kurunegala District includes the following extension staff at
present: one DAEO; one additional DAEO; ten SMSs; 48 AIs; and 175 KVSs.
Only 135 KVSs are involved in extension work, the rest being responsible for
the sale of seed and planting material as well as accounting. The staff is
responsible for the agricultural extension activities of some 165,000 farm
families, i.e., about 1,200 farm families per KVS.
2.27      Extension activities are technically backstopped by:  (a) the
Batalagoda Rice Research Center; (b) the Research Division of the Agriculture
Department, Peradeniya; and (c) the Maha Illuppalama Research Station.  Con-
tacts with research institutions are mostly informal and of an irregular nature.
In-service tra:.ning is provided by the Training Institute at Peradeniya and
the Maha Illuppalama Research Station. The district office has one old jeep
which is in poor working condition. Out of the 48 AIs, only 11 have motor-
cycles; most KVSs do not have any transportation.
2.28      Extension work on coconut lands is the function of the Coconut
Cultivation Board (CCB). Field operations are spread over seven regions,
two of which --- Kurunegala and Kuliyapitiya -- are in the Kurunegala District.
Each regional office is headed by a Senior Coconut Development Officer (SCDO).
The district field staff consists of 25 CDOs who are mostly Agriculture Diploma
holders. Each CDO is assigned to an area covering 5,000-6,000 farmers. The
staff is charged with the responsibility of extension, advisory work relating
to plant protection as well as the management of various coconut development
subsidy schemes. The technical backup for extension is provided by CRI The
workload related to the various subsidy schemes is rather heavy. Also, the
CDOs are handicapped by poor mobility due to lack of transport as well as
absence of village level workers. These factors have tended to keep the
extension effort of the staff to the minimum and incidental to their other
activities.
2.29      Responsibility for extension work in two special projects (Hakwatuna
and Usgala Siambalangamuwa) were with the Land Commissioner's Department who
had two AOs, one AI and four KVSs attached for this purpose. In preparation
for the proposed reorganization of extension services under the project, these
have recently been merged with the extension organization of DA.  As regards
livestock, nine Veterinary Surgeons, assisted by 40 KVSs operate in the district
under the control of DAPH. Main activities include disease control (preventive
vaccination), artificial insemination program and the enforcement of health
and other regulations. The Department: of Minor Export crops with one AO, two
AIs and two KVSs is responsible for extension work on crops such as cocoal,
coffee and pepper.
2.30      Main problems impeding efficiency of the present agricultural
extension system are:
(a)  fragmentation of the agricultural extension service with
emphasis on individual crops and without concern for
overall production possibilities;



- 14 -
(b)  pursuit of unrelated and, often, conflicting activities;
(c)  weak links with the agricultural research institutions;
(d)  inadequate in-service training for the field staff;
(e) insufficient contact with the farmers due to inadequate
manpower and absence of well structured work programs; and
(f)  lack of transport and inadequate operating budgets.
GOSL is aware of these problems and is placing a high priority on solving
them. Under the IDA financed Tank Irrigation Modernization Project (Credit
666-CE), the extension service in the Anuradhapura District has been reorgan-
ized along the Training and Visit (T&V) system. The results so far are en-
couraging although some difficulties have been experienced due to delays in
appointment of additional staff, improper selection of contact farmers as well
as political interference in staff placement. A project to extend the T&V
system on a nationwide basis, incorporating the experience from the Anurad-
hapura District, has recently been appraised for possible financing by IDA.
B. Farm Input Supplies
2.31      Seeds and Planting Material.  For paddy and other field crops,
farmers obtain seeds from the extension service and the Multi-purpose Coop-
eratives (MPCs), which, in turn, get them from Government farms and from
certified seed growers. There is a great deal of farmer-to-farmer exchange
and many cultivators save their own seed, especially for paddy. Foundation
and registered seed are grown on Government farms. Multiplication is done
mostly by certified growers. Currently, there are no facilities in Kurunegala
for cleaning and processing of the seeds obtained from certified growers.
Such facilities are available in other major paddy producing districts and
have proved to be very popular with the farmers.
2.32      For coconut, there are two nurseries run by CRI, with a total capa-
city of 150,000 plants, sufficient for the replanting of only about 1,500 ac
per year. Recently, a nursery for intercrops such as cocoa, coffee, and
pepper has also been started; however, the output remains much below the
requirements. Shortage of good quality planting material is a serious con-
straint to accelerating replanting and intercropping programs in the district.
2.33      Agricultural Equipment.  As elsewhere in Sri Lanka, for the past
two decades there has been a steady shift towards tractorization of land prep-
aration for paddy cultivation. Draft animals, however, still account for about
half of the land preparation for paddy cultivation in the district and they
will continue to have an important role for the foreseeable future, parti-
cularly in the wetter, southern parts of the district where holding sizes are
smaller and land preparation is physically less taxing. Land preparation for
chena cultivation is done almost exclusively by manual labor. Due to stagnation
in the draft animal population and severe restrictions on imports of tractors
and mammoties (hoes) during 1970-77, the farm power situation got progressively
worse. During 1977, the district had in estimated 100,000 buffaloes, 450



- 15 -
four-wheel tractors and 300 two-wheel tractors, adequate to cultivate on:Ly
about 100,000 ac over the recommended 45-day cultivation period, compared to
the asweddumized area of 170,000 ac. Inadequate farm power availability has
been a major constraint to fuller utilization of the land and water resources
in the district. With import liberalization over the past year, the situation
has improved considerably and several popular brands of tractors are now
readily available with local dealers and agents. Currently, the main co-n-
straint is the lack of suitable credit fac:Llities for financing such purchases
by the farmers. Availability of good qual:ity mammoties, particularly the
brands popular with farmers, is still a problem.
2.34      Fertilizers.  Until recently, the Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation (CFC)
was the sole importer for all fertilizers; now the imports are also open to
the private sector. Mixing and distribution at the wholesale level is handled
by both public and private sector organizations with the private sector mostly
catering to large plantation estates. Retail sales for paddy and field crops
are through MPCs as well as Agricultural Service Centers (ASCs) supervised and
supported by the Agrarian Services Division (ASD) of the Ministry of Agricul-
tural Development and Research. Retail sa:Les for coconut are handled mostly
by CCB.  At present, in Kurunegala Districc, ASD operates ten  fertilizer
stores, with a total capacity of about 5,200 tons and CCB, four stores with
a capacity of 1,300 tons. In addition, MPCs and ASCs have an all-purpose
storage capacity of about 7,000 tons, a pai7t of which is used for fertilizer
storage. Recently, retail sales have also been opened to the private sector.
2.35      Farmers are generally aware of the benefits to be derived from
increased fertilizer use and a number of farm surveys indicate substantial
unsatisfied demand due to an inefficient distribution and marketing network
as well as inadequate agricultural credit ,upport, particularly for coconut.
A comprehensive review of the fertilizer p-ocurement, distribution and market-
ing problems has been completed recently w.th assistance from the Federal
Republic of Germany and it is expected tha: overall fertilizer availability
will improve considerably during the next Eew years. At the district level,
most serious bottlenecks relate to inadequate storage and transport facilities.
2.36      Agro-chemicals.  Active ingredients and emulsifiers for all pesti-
cides are imported, both by the private sector and the Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation but most of the formulation talces place in Sri Lanka. The range
of pesticides available is comprehensive and adequate, and packaging is good.
GOSL controls both the retail prices and the range of products that can be
sold. The private sector firms have their own field Advisory Services and run
demonstrations on farmers' fields. They have a network of subdistributors at
the village level and also supply MPCs and ASCs. All formulations are liquid,
therefore they must be applied through sprayers which are usually rented from
a neighbor or from the MPCs. A shortage of sprayers at the farm level is a
serious constraint.
C.   Agricultural Credit
2.37      Principal sources of institutional agricultural credit are the two
nationalized commercial banks -- the People's Bank (PB) and the Bank of
Ceylon (BC). The Bank of Ceylon lends directly to the farmers through its



- 16 -
40 ASC branches in the district. The People's Bank lends through MPCs as
well as through MPC's Rural Bank branches, totalling 37 in Kurunegala. Both
banks follow essentially similar credit policies, set forth by the Ministry
of Agricultural Development and Research (MADR).  Currently, cultivation loans
are granted for paddy and some 17 other field crops.  The maximum area financed
is 10 ac for paddy and 5 ac for other crops. Loans are grantec according to
the scales of finances approved by IIADR for different crops in various agro-
ecological regions. Loans are disbursed partly in kind (inputs) with direct
payments to supplier, and, partly in cash.  Loans are also provided for farm
equipment and land development, however, no production loans are made for
coconut lands.
2.38      Cultivation loans are for six months.  The lending rate to the bor-
rower for cultivation loans is 9% with a penalty of 6% charged on overdues.
For other types of agricultural loans, interest rates range from 10-14% with a
repaynment period of up to five years. For cultivation loans, the Central Bank
provices 100% refinance facilities to both banks at a concessionary 2% rate.
Default guarantees of up to 75% were also provided by the Central Bank; how-
ever, to improve credit discipline and encourage greater involvement of the
lending institutions in agricultural credit, GOSL has discontinued the default
guarantees beginning with the maha 1978/79 crop loans. Agricultural lending
activity by the two Banks in the Kurunegala district for the past few years
is suntmarized in Annex 1, Table 6.
2.39      A long standing problem with agricultural credit in the district,
as in the rest of the country, has been the high default rate, typically
averaging over 50%.  This has prevented greater farm population coverage by
institutional credit. Also, it has meant a continuous drain or, the Govern-
ment treasury. In part, the high lefaults are due to weakness in agricul-
tural credit operations. Largely, however, they result from the lenient
attitude adopted by successive governments toward habitual defaulters. GOSL
is seriously concerned about the problems with the current agricultural credit
program and is hoping to use the proposed project as a vehicle for developing
a financially viable credit system while providing coverage to most of the
farm population. With technical assistance from the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), GOSL is undertaking a comprehensive review of the agrictltural credit
operations in Sri Lanka. The findings of the review are expected over the
next few months.
D.   Marketing and Processing
2.40      To ensure remunerative prices to farmers, GOSL operates Guaranteed
Price Schemes (GPS) for paddy and a number of other crops such as pulses and
coarse grains. Responsibility for implementation of GPS for all crops rests
with the Paddy Marketing Board (PMB) which operates through a well dispersed
network of purchasing centers run by MPCs. Typically, about 25% of the paddy
production in the district is sold to PMB; the rest is either sold to private
traders and millers or retained for home consumption. Peak procurement periods
are after the maha crop, between March and May. From purchase centers, paddy
is transferred to PMB stores. Currently, there are some 17 PMB stores in the
district varying in size from about 600 to 6,000 tons with a total effective
storage of about 23,000 tons. Milling of paddy procured by PMB is done



- 17 -
both at PMB owned mills and private lmills contracted by PMB. Total monthly
milling capacity in the district available to PMB is estimated at about 2,000
tons. In addition, there are some 100 private mills of various sizes which do
custom milling for private traders and farmers.  Milled rice is sold at cost
to the Food Commissioner for distribution through the rationing system. Due
to inadequate storage, transport and milling facilities as well as insufficient
supervision of the retail purchasing centers, procurement operations breakdown
during the peak procurement periods and farm gate prices go below the support
prices particularly in years with good crops. With assistance from USA-ID,
GOSL is implementing a nationwide program to improve the paddy procurement
operations and to provide associated physical infrastructure requirements.
2.41      Marketing of non-paddy field crops is mostly through private channels.
Guaranteed Price Schemes have been much less successful for these crops and
prices often fluctuate considerably from month to month. GOSL is considering
measures to improve marketing of these crops.
2.42      The vast majority of coconut holders sell fresh nuts to village
dealers who in turn sell them to desiccated coconut factories or oil miLls.
A few larger holders make copra which is then sold to oil mills.  Estates
normally sell fresh nuts directly to desiccated coconut factories or make
copra for sale to oil mills. The district is adequately served by 11 desic-
cated coconut factories and 12 oil mills. Of these, four are integrated,
producing desiccated coconut, coconut oil and poonac. Due to depressed
production lavels, most of the mills havE functioned at below capacity over
the past several years.
E. Coordination of Input Supplies
2.43      To improve the timely availability of various agricultural s;upplies
and services to the farmers, the Government has recently established an Agri-
cultural Development Authority (ADA) under the Ministry of Agricultural Devel-
opment and Research. The Authority is to appoint an Agricultural Manager to
each of the 160 electorates in the country, who would monitor and coordinate
the input distribution program of the various agriculture supporting agencies
and departments. It is intended that through its monitoring, ADA would help
identify any problem areas at an early stage, for remedial actions, if neces-
sary, at the highest levels of the Government. Currently ADA is operating in
11 electorates of which five are in the Kurunegala district. Given the frequent
breakdowns in the past in activities such as fertilizer distribution, paddy
procurement, credit distribution and recovery, and farm power availability,
ADA can clearly play an important role in accelerating the agricultural devel-
opment in Sri Lanka.  However, for its efforts to be successful, ADA wiLl have
to concentrate, at least initially, only on a few critical inputs and services.
Also, its effectiveness will depend greatly upon developing harmonious rela-
tions with the field staff of the various agencies to be monitored and
coordinated.
Social Infrastructure and Living Standards
A.   Transport and Communications
2.44      Most major towns and urban centers in the district are intercon-
nected by a network of about 900 mi of metalled and tarred roads, and served



- 18 -
by publicly operated regular bus service. Kurunegala town itself is well
connected by class A roads with other major cities/towns in Sri Lanka such
as Colombo, Kandy, Puttalam and Anuradhapura (Map 13946R). In addition,
about 70 mi of railroad runs through the district, connecting Kurunegala
with Anuradhapura, Kandy and Colombo. Most villages and rural settlements
are connected to the main network through some 7,000 mi of gravelled roads
and dirt tracks, mostly maintained by the village councils. Many of these
are, however, unpassable during part of the rainy season. The transport
network is generally adequate for the needs of the area. There is, however,
a need for rehabilitating/upgrading some of the well-travelled village
council roads, particularly in the underdeveloped northern part of the
district.
2.45      Telecommunication facilities link Kurunegala with Colombo.  There
are also some 25 small exchanges linking various district towns with Kurun-
egala. Because of outdated equipment and limited capacity, the quality of
service is generally poor. Under an ongoing project, the Kurunegala exchange
is to be modernized to provide direct dialing facilities from Colombo. This
is expected to be completed by the end of 1979 and should substantially
improve access by telephone to the district.
B.   Electrification
2.46      Kurunegala District has lagged behind the rest of the country in
electrification. According to the 1971 Census of Housing, only 2% of the
occupied private housing units in the district had electricity compared to
9% for the country. Electricity supply to the district is provided mainly
through a 66 KV/33 KV Grid Substation of 6 MVA capacity at Mallawapitiya,
about 3 mi from Kurunegala. A 132 KV main transmission line presently
energized at 66 KV connects Mallawapitiya Grid Substation to the National
Transmission Network (Map 13945). Currertly, in Kurunegala, there are about
100 industrial/commercial users purchasing directly from the Ceylon EfLectric-
ity Board (CEB) and 17 local authorities drawing bulk supplies from CEB for
retail distribution. In addition, 40 rural electrification schemes are admin-
istered direztly by CEB. The total number of consumers is about 7,000. With
rapid growth of prospective consumers for domestic, commercial and industrial
uses in the district, demand for rural electrification schemes is large. The
main constraint is the high initial investment in providing electricity to
small dispersed settlements, particularly when they are away from the existing
high tension lines.
C.   Water Supply
2.47      According to the Housing Census of 1971, only 2% of the households
in Kurunegala had a piped water supply compared to some 20% in the country as
a whole. Besides Kurunegala town, six other localities in the district are
served by piped water. Most of the households depend upon shallow wells--50%
share community wells and about 35% have private wells. About 10% of the
households depend upon other sources of water such as streams, rivers and
tanks. There are about 85,000 shallow wells in the district or an average
of 25 wells per village. Some of these wells have probably gone dry; however,
the number of such wells is unknown. Because of an uneven geographical



- 19 -
distribution of the wells, there are several water deficient areas in the
district (Map 13944).
D.   Health Facilities
2.48      The district is served by a good network of medical institutions.
The largest institution in the district is the General Hospital in Kurunegala
town with some 800 beds and facilities for surgery, obstetrics and gynecology,
pediatrics, ENT, eye and dental care and laboratory work. In addition, there
are ten district hospitals, 14 peripheral units, four rural hospitals, nine
maternity homes and 40 central dispensaries (Map 13944). 1/ The total bed
strength is about 2,500, i.e., about 500 people per bed. Through a system of
referral, serious cases from smaller institutions are sent to larger institu-
tions by an ambulance service. Preventive health care work in the district is
organized through 12 Health Units each headed by a Medical Officer of Health.
The Units provide for the control of communicable diseases, sanitation, family
health, epidemiological surveillance and health education. Family planning
services are integrated with maternal and child health service. Except for
patients who choose to be admitted into paying wards in big hospitals, medical
services are free of cost.
2.49      The health facilities are generally adequate to meet the needs,
particularly considering that there are also several ayurvedic clinics operated
by the local bodies, as well as numerous private practitioners. The main
problems with the health care system in the district, as in the rest of the
country, are: shortages of drugs and medical equipment due to financial
constraints; shortage of qualified medical personnel due to emigration as
well as their reluctance to live in relatively inaccessible rural areas with
poor housing and other basic amenities; and an ineffective referral system
due to shortage of transport vehicles and poor communications, leading to an
underutilization of outlying facilities and overcrowding at the main facilities.
Attention paid to preventive health care has also been highly inadequate.
E.  Educational Facilities
2.50      The district has a total of about 820 schools of which 230 are
primary schools (grades 1-5), 350 junior secondary schools (grades 1-10)
and 120 senior secondary schools (grades 1-12). In addition, there are two
teachers' training colleges, 25 school-based centers for vocational education
of school leavers and a technical institute in Kurunegala town. Usually,
primary education facilities are available within one mile of pupils' homes,
junior secondary within three miles and senior secondary within five miles.
Total enrollment is about 200,000. Average class size is about 40 in the
primary grades and 30-35 in the higher grades. Out of a total of some 8,200
1/   All these are mostly general practitioner facilities with typical bed
strength of 100 for a district hospital, 30-40 for a peripheral unit,
15-20 for a rural hospital, and about ten for a maternity home.



- 20 -
teachers in the district, about 6,800 are trained and certified graduates.
Participation rates are quite high -- over 85% for age group 6-9 years, 65%
for age group 10-14 years, and 20% for age group 15-19 years. Except for
charges on non-classroom facilities such as playgrounds, education is free
for all students.
2.51      Due to poor equipment and facilities at the smaller schools as well
as difficulties in finding qualified teachers for posting at such schools,
there is a substantial underutilization of smaller outlying schools and as
a result, overcrowding at the main schools. There is also a need for more
emphasis on science and vocational education, geared to the needs of the job
market in the country.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Approach
3.01      The proposed project aims to evolve a replicable model of regional
development for raising productivity, employment, incomes and living standards
of the rural population in Sri Lanka. The main assumption underlying the
project approach is that the existing economic and social infrastructure in
Sri Lanka is substantially underutilized and prospects exist for a rapid and
significant improvement through strengthening of the development-oriented
institutional services, accompanied by modest but critical complementary
investments in physical infrastructure.
3.02      The proposed project is designed to emphasize:
(a) directly productive investment-s;
(b) local level political participation in identification
of project investments (accompanied by sound selection
criteria, applied consistentlyl;
(c)  reduction of intra-regional disparities;
(d)  financial, technical and insti:utional replicability; and
(e) labor-intensive, quick-yielding rehabilitation works
rather than new construction.
3.03      Because of the predominant position of coconut and paddy in the
district's economy as well as the scope for large production increases for
both crops, the principal project thrust would be to rehabilitate the pro-
duction base and to improve supporting services essential for increased
paddy and coconut production. Specifically, the project would include:
(a) rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes accompanied
by improved water management practices to fully exploit
the irrigation potential;



- 21 -
(b)  stepped-up programs of replanting/underplanting, inter-
cropping and fertilizing of smallholder coconut plantations
to overcome the past neglect;
(c)  reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension
services to improve their effectiveness;
(d)  improvements in input supply services such as fertilizer
distribution, seed supplies, planting materials and farm
equipment; and
(e)  strengthening of agricultural credit facilities for crop
production loans as well as for investment in farm equip-
ment and machinery.
These directly productive investments would be complemented by limited invest-
ments in transportation, health, education, drinking water supply and rural
electrification to improve utilization and effectiveness of the existing
facilities, to reduce intra-regional disparities and to develop the social
infrastructure for growth in the long-term.
3.04      Although the proposed project includes some 12 different components,
it does not purport to tackle all aspects of regional development. Instead,
the project design represents a pragmatic compromise between comprehensiveness
and manageability. Even after the project, substantial scope should exist for
further investments in components included under the project as well as for
incorporatioII of new components. 1/
Detailed Features
A.   Irrigation and Water Management (Base Cost US$5.50 M)
3.05      The project aims to increase the irrigated area under cultivation
through rehabilitation and/or improvement of the existing irrigation schemes
along with strictly enforced better water management practices. The project
would also promote further exploitation of the surface water resource in the
district through supplementary lift irrigation schemes.
3.06      Major Irrigation Schemes.  The rehabilitation of the nine major
tank schemes in the district (para 2.07) would include the following works
(Annex 2(a), Table 3):
(a) desilting and enlarging oiE the main canals and
distributaries;
(b) repairing, enlarging and gravelling of embankments
used as farm roads;
1/   One such component could be promotion of rural industries for expanding
and diversifying employment opportunities in rural areas.



- 22 -
(c) lining of selected reaches of the conveyance system to
reduce excessive seepage losses;
(d) construction of some 65 additional regulators, ten
regulator-cum-bridges, 60 drainage outlet structures,
ten culverts, and 25 silt traps; and
(e) installation of about 530 turnouts of varying sizes from
4 to 24 in, and about 80 distributory gates for turnout
modifications and improvements.
To facilitate equitable water allocation, the distribution system would be
improved so as to enable controlled deliveries to individual farms, t)pically
averaging 2.5 ac.
3.07      Preliminary investigations for all nine tanks have been completed.
Work on detailed surveys and designs for channel modifications and structure
locations is in progress and is expected to be completed for two schemes by
June 30, 1979 so that construction can be started within the first year of
the project.
3.08      Village Irrigation Schemes.  The project would provide for rehabil-
itation of some 500 village irrigation schemes (tanks and anicuts). The
project works would include: (a) repairs, extension and/or raising of
embankments; (b) repairs to sluice and spillway structures of village tanks
and the overflow structures of anicuts; (c) replacement of sluice gates, and
installation of new gates for anicuts; and (d) desilting and enlargement of
field channels. Land clearing for any new areas brought under cultivation
would be done by the farmers themselves.
3.09      The village schemes for rehabilitation would be selected according
to the following socio-economic and technical criteria:
Village Tanks
(a) the command area under each tank would not be less than 20 ac;
(b) useful storage of tank would not be less than 50 ac-ft;
(c) tank would directly benefit at least ten families;
(d) rehabilitation cost would not be more than Rs 7,000 per
incremental irrigated ac;
(e) tank bed would not be of pervious soils and tank should
have been filled at least three times in the past four
years; and
(f) total area benefited would be at least ten times the pri-
vately owned land to be submerged, if any.



- 23 -
Village Anicuts
(a)  catchment areas for an independent anicut would not be
less than 1.0 sq mi;
(b)  distance between two anicuts on a stream would not be
less than 1 mi and the catchment area in between two
anicuts not less than 0.5 sq mi;
(c) command area would not be less; than 30 ac;
(d) anicut would directly benefit at least 15 families; and
(e) rehabilitation cost would not be more than Rs 7,000
per incremental irrigated acre.
To ensure balanced intra-regional development, expenditures on rehabilitation
of village schemes in any electorate would not exceed 20% of the total for
the district.
3.10      A total of about 130 village irrigation schemes have already been
identified. Additional schemes would be identified and selected during the
project period. Detailed surveys and investigations are in progress for
schemes proposed for rehabilitation in the first year of the project. Assur-
ances have been obtained from GOSL that selection of village irrigation
schenies for rehabilitation under the project would be in accordance with
criteria agreed upon by IDA.
3.11      Lift Irrigation Schemes.  The project would provide 20 trailer-
mounted pumping units of 6 inch size and two of 12 inch size for lift irriga-
tion from perennial streams and other water bodies for relief during periods
of untimely dry spells. Forebays and main feeder channels as well as concrete
pads and ramps for mobile pumps would be constructed at suitable locations.
About eight locations along Dedura Oya and Maha Oya where lift irrigation
would be feasible have already been identified. Investigations for identi-
fication of other sites are in progress. Operational details concerning man-
agement of supplementary irrigation facilities are expected to be finalized
by June 30, 1979.
3.12      Improved Water Management.  The project would bring all major
irrigation schemes as well as the selected 500 village irrigation schemes
in the district under improved management. Problems which can be overcome
without rehabilitation of the physical systems (e.g., improving operation of
main sluices, coordinating tank water releases with rainfall and crop water
requirements as well as shifting cropping calendars to benefit fully from
rainfall) would be adopted in all nine major schemes in the first year of
the project. Comprehensive measures including introduction of rotational
irrigation, possible only with improvements to the physical systems, would
be phased with the rehabilitation program. For village schemes, the project
would adopt the highly successful model developed at the Maha Illupalama
Research Station over the past several years. The model emphasizes advancing
of cropping calendars, avoidance of staggered cultivation, use of proper paddy



- 24 -
varieties and mobilization of group action through education and training.
Production increases of 30-50% in one year have been obtained in irrigation
schemes where the Station has tried its program so far. The proposed project
would be the first large scale replication of the Maha Illupalama model. Close
cooperation has been assured from the concerned research staff. Several train-
ing sessions for the agricultural field staff have already been conducted and
the program is being tried in ten village tanks during the current 1978/79
maha. This would provide valuable experience for full implementation under
the project.
3.13      Support under the project would include construction of additional
regulators, control structures, flow measurement devices and field outlets
required for effective water management. Additional staffing for efficient
water distribution and management would also be included.
3.14      Equipment.  Labor intensive techniques would be emphasized for the
project works. However, to ensure timely implementation and high quality
construction, the project would also provide limited amounts of construction
equipment and vehicles (Annex 2(a), Table 2). After completion of the project,
the left over usuable equipment, if any, would be used for operation and
maintenance (O&M) of rehabilitated irrigation schemes.
B.   Coconut Development (Base Cost US$3.70 M)
3.15      The project objectives would be to:  (i) increase productivity
of mature plantations through improved husbandry practices, particularly
increased fertilizer application; (ii) rehabilitate neglected plantations by
stepping up replanting/underplanting of senile palms; and (iii) intensify use
of coconut lands, through intercropping. The project effort would be con-
centrated in the wet and semi-wet zones (covering 70% of the coconut acreage
in Kurunegala) as the climatic conditions for coconut production are more
favorable in these areas. Also, the project would emphasize smaller holdings
(below 25 ac, accounting for about half of the total coconut acreage) because
the neglect on such holdings has been more severe and hence the scope for
improvement is greater.
3.16      Improved Husbandry Program (Annex 2(b), Tables 2-5).  Over the five
year implementation period, the project would aim to triple fertilizer use
in the district -- from about 10,000 tons per annum at present to 30,000 tons
in 1983. As a result, about 150,000 ac or about 40% of the total coconut
acreage in the district would be adequately manured. To achieve this, fer-
tilizer marketing and the distribution system would be greatly improved
(para 3.24). To overcome the financial constraints faced by smallholders,
medium-term credit facilities would be introduced for financing fertilizer
purchases by coconut cultivators (para 3.26).
3.17      The project would also support construction of contour drains on
some 20,000 ac as well as removal of excess palms from 40,000 ac. The
strengthened and unified agricultural extension service, to be established
under the project (para 3.22) would facilitate the dissemination of improved
husbandry practices for coconut.



- 25 -
3.18      Replanting/Underplanting (Annex 2(b), Table 2).  The project would
greatly increase the current replanting/underplanting rates -- from an esti-
mated 2,000 ac per annum at present to about 8,000 ac per annum in 1983, the
last year of the project.  Overall, the project would increase the replanted/
underplanted area during 1979-83 from a projected 10,000 ac without the
project to about 25,000 ac with the project. The project targets are quite
modest in relation to the replanting/underplanting requirements in the dis-
trict (para 2.17) and have been set taking into consideration the limited
implementation capacity of the Coconut Cultivation Board at present. To
overcome the effects of the past neglect, the replanting rate targeted for
1983 would have to be maintained for several years even after project
completion.
3.19      The planting would be with both the selected local tall varieties
as well as the high yielding hybrids (paru 2.24), depending upon the agrco-
climatic conditions in the different areas as well as the farmers'
preferences. Eight new nurseries each wil:h a capacity of about 60,000 plants
would be established to provide high quality seedlings. Two existing nurseries
would also be improved. In order to reduce transplanting shock and shorten
the immaturity period, seedlings would be raised in polythene bags.
3.20      Intercropping (Annex 2(b), Table 3).  Due to the limited prac-
tical know-how and experience in Sri Lanka with intercrops as well as a lack
of field-tested technical packages for use by the extension service, the
project's target for intercropping would be a modest 10,000 ac -- cocoa
(2,000 ac); coffee (3,000 ac), pepper (3,000 ac) and other crops (2,000 ac) --
only about 5% of the total district acreage suitable for intercropping. The
project would, however, emphasize the bui.ding up of a strong technical base
for possible future expansion on a large -;cale. Support under the project
would include establishment of five nurseries, each with an annual output of
about 200,000 plants, to supply planting tiaterials for cocoa, coffee and
pepper. In addition, about 50 demonstration plots in the farmers' fields
would be established in the district to help in preparing appropriate tech-
nical packages for the extension service as well as in propagating inter-
cropping.  The nurseries and the demonstration plots would be established
and operated with technical guidance from the Minor Export Crops Research,
Station at Matale.
3.21      Vehicles, office buildings and equipment, and additional staffing
Annex 2(b), Tables 4-7) would be provided to the Coconut Cultivation Board
and the Department of Minor Export Crcps to assist them in implementation of
the project proposals. They would also be provided additional financial
assistance for supporting stepped up programs of replanting/underplanting,
rehabilitation and intercropping in accordance with GOSL's ongoing subsidy
schemes as summarized below:



- 26 -
Table 3.1: COCONUT DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDY SCHEMES
/a
Item                        Estimated Dev. Cost-  GOSL Subsidy
------------ - Rs ----------------
Coconut Replanting/underplanting
(per ac)                                  5,000              1,800
Intercropping (per ac)
Cocoa                                         2,200             1,200
Coffee                                        2,400             1,100
Pepper                                        2,950             1,500
Removal of Excess Palms
(per palm)                                       16                16
Contour Drains (per chain)                          24                24
/a     Including imputed cost of family labor.
Tentative site selections for nurseries and demonstration plots have already
been made. Detailed surveys and investigations are underway and final site
selections would be made by June 30, 1979.
C.   Agricultural Extension (Base Cost USi1.00 M)
3.22      The various agricultural extension services in the district (para
2.24) would be consolidated and reorganized on the basis of the Training and
Visit system. Current staff levels would be increased to provide one KVS for
about every 600 farm families. Additional SMSs and supervisory staff such as
AOs and AIs would also be assigned. Support under the project would include
(Annex 2(c), Tables 1-3):
(a)  incremental salaries, allowances and recurrent expendi-
tures for the strengthened extension service during the
project period;
(b) transport vehicles for increasing mobility of the field
staff;
(c) office and audio-visual equipment for the extension
service; and
(d) construction of about 50 staff quarters in remote areas
and extension to the head office building in Kurunegala.
3.23      Locations for staff quarters have already been selected.  Surveys
and site investigations are in progress. Buildings will be constructed accord-
ing to the standard designs used by the Department of Agriculture, which are
considered satisfactory. The work program under the project would be consist-
ent with that under the forthcoming National Extension Project (para 2.30).
Assurances have been obtained that the organizational set-up as well as the



- 27 -
work program for the agricultural extension service in the project area would
be satisfactory to IDA.
D.   Agricultural Input Supplies (Base Cost US$1.05 M)
3.24      The project would improve supplies of critically needed farm inputs
and services as well as provide better monitoring and coordination of the
various input supplies at the farm level. Support under the project would
include (Annex 2(d), Tables 1-3):
(a) establishment of a seed processing center to supply
quality seed for paddy and other field crops;
(b) con3truction of fertilizer stores for MPCs and ASCs
and provision of transport lorries to ASD to improve
the fertilizer distribution within the district;
(c)  impart and cash sale to farmers of about 50,000
mammoties;
(d) incremental salaries, allowances and recurrent expendi-
tures for extending ADA's operations to the entire
district; and
(e) vehicles and office equipmeant for ADA and ASD staff to
improve their effectiveness for better coordination of
farm input supplies.
3.25       Site investigations for the seed processing center have already
been completed. The plant setup and machinery would be similar to those in
12 other centers, currently operating successfully in other districts of Sri
Lanka. Mammoties would be imported through the State Trading Corporation
and sold to the farmers through MPCs and ASCs.
E.   Agricultural Credit (Base Cost US$7.05 M)
3.26      The project objective would be to lay the foundation for a viable
agricultural credit system while encouraging high participation by the farmers,
particularly the small farmers. The project would emphasize resolving past
default problems through recovery drives and rescheduling where necessary,
strengthening of lending operations for the future and a strict enforcement
of credit discipline. Credit facilities under the project would finance
(Annex 2(e), Tables 2-3):
(a) short-term production loans for paddy and other field crops
It is expected that the cropped area covered by institutional
credit would be tripled from about 10,000 ac at present to
about 30,000 ac by 1983;
(b) medium-term production for supporting the fertilizing program
on about 50,000 ac of coccnut lands (para 3.16);



- 28 -
(c)  medium-term loans for purchase of about 200 four-wheel tractors,
500 two-wheel tractors and about 1,000 hand sprayers by farmers
and private sector tractor pools; and
(d)  medium-term loans for purchase of 20 five-ton trucks by MPCs.
3.27      Recovery of Overdue Loans.  To foster credit discipline and to
impress upon the farmers a break from the past practice of overlooking
habitual defaults, the project would launch a concerted drive for recovery
and settlement of some Rs 13 M in overdue debts owed by an estimated 25,000
farmers in the district. Consolidated inventories of overdue debts would
be prepared and the defaulters would be classified into wilful or non-wilful
debtors taking into consideration their assets and income levels 1/ as well as
earlier payment records. All wilful defaulters would be asked to repay their
loans within one month of receiving the recovery notices, failing which legal
actions would be initiated. For non-wilful defaulters, the debts would be
rescheduled for payment in a number of installments determined on the basis
of their repayment capacity as well as the outstanding amounts. The resched-
uling agreement would clearly stipulate that any failure to repay the install-
ments on time would lead to legal actions for recovery of the entire unpaid
balance.
3.28      Before launching the recovery drive, the elected representatives
of the district would be fully briefed on the project objectives and approach
on agricultural credit and their support would be solicited in explaining and
publicizing project actions to their constituents. With a well organized
publicity and education campaign, it is expected that most of the default
cases would be settled without recourse to legal measures. However, the
threat of expeditious and strong legal sanctions would also be of crucial
importance for success of the recovery drive. The Peoples' Bank and the
Bank of Ceylon have already worked out detailed programs for streamlining
and expediting the procedures for prosecutions of wilful defaulters.
3.29      Credit Operations under the Project.  The main features of the
lending under the project would be as follows:
(a)  Loan Eligibility.  Loans would ;iot be given to defaulters
and all borrowers would be required to have an agro-identity
card indicating essential agriciltural and financial inform-
ation about the farmer. The project would provide for the
preparation of suitably designe1 agro-identity card which
would be issued to farmers at a nominal cost. For better
control and supervision, a farmer would be required to have
all his borrowings from only one bank.
(b) Terms and Conditions. To channel the credit to small farmers,
maximum area financed would be limited to 10 ac for paddy;
1/   Income data could be readily obtained from ration card entitlements.



- 29 -
5 ac for subsidiary food crops; aind 25 ac for coconut. Culti-
vation loans for paddy and other field crops would be made
for a period of six months with a two month extension, where
necessary, due to market conditions. Cultivation loans for
coconut would be repayable in five years including a grace
period of two years. Loans for farm machinery and equipment
would be repayable over a maximum of five years with semi-
annual installments. A down payment of 10-20% would be required
for purchase of farm machinery and equipment. Most of the
farm machinery would be sold to project area farmers, however
to channel private sector savings and enterprise into agricul-
tural development, private sector farm machinery pools would
also be eligible for financing under the project.  A down
payment of at least 20% would be required from operators of
such pools.  Also, their rental rates and areas of operation
would be subject to periodic reviews by the Agricultural
DevElopment Authority. In t:he case of cultivation loans, the
security would be in the form of crop bonds or guarantee of
any two persons acceptable to the banks. For farm equipment,
a lien would be taken on the equLpment in addition to the
guarantee of any two persons acctiptable to the banks;
(c) Lending Procedures. Loan application forms for both banks
would be standardized and simplified to cut down on excessive
delays. Disbursements would mostly be in kind with direct
payments to suppliers. AppraisaL and supervision procedures
would be strengthened to enable the banks to have close con-
tact with the borrowers throughout the lending cycle. Account-
ing systems and internal inspection and audited procedures
would also be strengthened for the two banks.  Additional
staffing, vehicles and office equipment would be provided
under the project for strengthening the lending operations
in the district;
(d) Refinancing and Guarantees. The Central Bank would provide
100% refinance for cultivation loans and 70% for farm machinery
and equipment. In line witlh GOSL policy, the lending banks
would not be given any guarantee against default and would
lend at their own risk; and
(e) Interest Rates and Spreads. In line with on-going GOSL
schemes, an interest rate of 9% per annum 1/ on cultivation
loans and 14% per annum on Loans for farm machinery would
1/   With a penal rate of 15% per annum for late payments.



- 30 -
be charged from the borrowers. 1/ Refinancing from the Central
13ank would be on terms and ccnditions consistent with the
on-going countrywide programs and would provide a weighted
average spread of about 5% t. the lending banks. These spreads
ire considered adequate to cover the relevant administrative
and other costs to the banks.
3.30       The lending operations under the project including terms and condi-
tions, interest rates, guarantee provisions and procedures for prosecutions of
defaulters would be revised, following consultation with IDA, in light of the
findings of the on-going review of the agricultural credit operations in Sri
Lanka (para 2.38). Assurances have been obtained that agricultural credit
operations under the project including the procedures for prosecution of
defaulters would be in accordances with rules, regulations and procedures
satisfactcry to IDA. To this end, separate subsidiary agreements, satis-
factory tc IDA, would be executed between GOSL and the Peoples' Bank and the
Bank of Ceylon. Execution of such agraements would be a condition of credit
effectiveress.
F.   Lives;tock (Base Cost US$0.15 M)
3.31       The project would strengthen animal disease control and veterinary
services Ln the district.  The number of veterinary ranges will be increased
from 9 to 14 to provide better service in the poorly served northern part of
the district. Support under the project would include: (a) construction of
offices, c:linics and staff quarters at three remote locations; (b) urgently
required 3ffice equipment and simple surgical instruments for field works and
(c) trans3ort vehicles to improve mobility of the field staff. Sit:e investi-
gations fir the proposed buildings are in progress. Building will be of
standard iesigns used by the DAPH.
G.   Groundwater Exploration (Base Cost US$0.55 M)
3.32       The project would provide for exploration of the groundwater re-
sources in the District, together witlh an assessment of the potential for
economic exploitation of such resourci!s. Support under the project would
include: (a) construction of about 150 test wells of about two-and-a-half
inch diameter; (b) construction of about 30 test wells of six inch diameter;
(c) provision for hydrogeological map3ing and surveying; and (d) equipment
and vehicles for implementing the well drilling and testing program. After
1/   During 1978, the inflation rate in Sri Lanka averaged about 15% and a
simvlar inflation rate was expected for 1979 due mainly to adjustments in
pri,:ing policies. However, it is expected that the policy-induced price
adjustment would be completed by 1980. As a consequence, the inflation
rat'a is expected to drop and stabilize at about 7% per year by FY1981.
This would imply a positive real interest rate over most of the disburse-
ment period of the project.



- 31 -
completion of the exploration program, the equipment would be used, if feas-
ible, for development of groundwater resources in Kurunegala District. In
case groundwater development in Kurunegala is found to be uneconomical, the
equipment would be used for explorations inL other parts of Sri Lanka.
H.   Rural Roads (Base Cost US$0.80 M)
3.33      The project would provide for rehabilitation/upgrading of about
130 mi of high priority rural roads, mlostly in backward areas of the district.
The roads for improvement under the project have been selected taking into
consideration: (a) present condition and utilization of roads; (b) potential
development impact on the traversed area; (c) population served; and
(d) importance of road for marketing of farm produce.
3.34      The roads would be built up to class "D" standards with 50 ft wide
right-of-way, 24 ft platform and 12 ft roadway. The roads would be con-
solidated earthen roads with about 3" of compacted gravel surfacing. Tne
rehabilitation would involve about 0.3 M cu yd of earth work, 0.1 M cu yd
of surfacing and 140 culverts and small causeways (Annex 2(h), Table 3).
Labor intensive construction methods would be emphasized. To ensure high
quality as well as timely implementation, limited amounts of equipment an,d
vehicles (Annex 2(h), Table 2) would also lbe provided under the project.
Following completion of the project, any leftover equipment would be used
for maintenance of the road network in the District.  Site investigations
and preliminary surveys for all the roads have been completed and the detailed
designs are under preparation.
I.   Rural Water Supply (Base Cost US$0.60 M)
3.35      The project would include installation of about 400 dug wells in
areas with drinking water deficiency (Annex 2(i), Tables 1-2).  About 170
of the wells are expected to be in sandy st:rata, 100 in hard laterite and
the rest partly in hard laterite and partly in hard rock. Equipment and
vehicles needed for the construction program would also be provided.
3.36      Based on the available data on density of drinking wells, areas
deficient in drinking water have been tentatively identified (Map 13945).
To aid in final selection, about 10% of the wells in the district would be
surveyed on a random sample basis.  The survey will yield information on the
size, ownership of wells, status of wells (whether or not operating), depth
and behavior of water table, strata conditions, population served, and known
reasons for failure of wells. About 5% of the inventoried wells will also be
subjected to chemical tests for water quality. Attempts would also be made
to reactivate the abandoned wells in the deficit areas by improving the water
quality and/or increasing the yield.



- 32 -
J.   Rural Electrification (Base Cost US$0.80 M)
3.37      The project would assist electrification of 16 rural areas which
are close to existing transmission lines and have potential for rapid economic
growth (Annex 2(j), Tables 1-3). The project works would include construction
of about 25 mi of 33 KV distribution lines, 65 mi of low-tension lines and
about 18 substations of various sizes. Transport vehicles would be provided
to increase mobility during construction. Based on projected revenues three
years after electrification, all schemes would yield an annual return of at
least 5% on overall capital expenditures. All 16 schemes have already been
identified and investigated (Annex 2(j), Table 3).
K.   Heali:h (Base Cost US$0.35 M)
3.38      The project would improve effectiveness of the existing health care
delivery system in the district by promoting better utilization of smaller out-
lying curative facilities as well as strengthening the preventive care facil-
ities. Support under the project would include (Annex 2(k), Tables 1-2):
(a) construction of six residential quarters for medical
officers/mid-wives so that all medical institutions
with in-patient facilities would have accommodations
for at least one medical officer and one midwife;
(b)  construction of offices for health units at five locations
where adequate private buildings are not available for
renting. At four of these places, residential quarters
would also be constructed fcr medical officers;
(c) provision of ambulances and other transport vehicles to
improve the referral system, to increase mobility of the
supervisory personnel and tc facilitate distribution of
medicines to outlying facilities;
(d) electrification by diesel generators of three hospitals
which are away from the power transmission lines and have
more than 20 beds. A standby diesel generator would also
be included for the General Hospital at Kurunegala; and
(e) provision of urgently needed simple medical equipment such
as sterilizers, refrigerators, operating theatre instru-
ments and wheel chairs, mostly for the outlying institu-
tions.
Sites for construction of buildings have already been investigated. Buildings
will be of standard designs used by tFe Health Ministry. Investigations of
hospitals to be electrified have also been completed.



- 33 -
L.   Education (Base Cost US$0.70 M)
3.39      The project objectives would be to improve the quality of eduzation
in the school system, strengthen facilities for vocational and technical
education, improve utilization of outlying smaller schools and to reduce
the existing disparities within the district. Support under the project
would include (annex 2(1), Tables 1-2):
(a)  provision of simple science equipment to about 120
primary schools, 80 junior secondary schools and
3 senior secondary schools;
(b)  provision of training equipment for crafts such as cloth
weaving, metal work, ceramics and woodwork, dress making,
watch repair, radio repair, typing, home-science and metal
work to 5 junior secondary schools and about 40 schools
with school-leavers program;
(c)  provision of equipment for technical education to the
Kurunegala and Kuliyapitiya Technical Institute;
(d) construction of about 40 teacher!;' quarters for schools
in remote areas;
(e)  construction of about 140 science rooms for junior secon-
dary schools; and
(f) upgrading of seven senior-second.iry schools so that each
electorate would have at least one comprehensive senior
secondary school having facilities such as science labora-
tory, workshop, agricultural unit and library.
Sites for construction of buildings have a'.ready been selected. Building
would be of standard designs used by the Ministry of Education. Equipmernt
lists for science and crafts education have already been finalized. Equip-
ment lists for technical education would be finalized folllowing review by
the consultant included under the project (para 5.15).
M.   Project Coordination and Investigationis (Base Cost US$1.05 M)
3.40      The project would support ongoing GOSL efforts aimed at strengthen-
ing planning and coordination of multi-sect:oral district development projects
in Sri Lanka. The project would include:
(a)  vehicles, office equipmett and additional staffing for proj-
ect coordination and management both in Kurunegala and in
Colombo. Support would also be provided for evaluation of
the project impact. An office building would be constructed
for the project secretariat in Kurunegala;
(b)  support for preparing a statistical handbook for the
Kurunegala district to provide a reliable and readily avail-
able data source for developmental planning in the distr[ct.



- 34 -
A considerable amount of data is currently available; however,
it lies scattered in numerous agencies, often unknown to
potential users. Also, the quality of existing data is
highly variable. The existing data would be compiled, eval-
uated and edited. Any gaps would be filled through supple-
mentary surveys. The statistical handbook could be updated
periodically. Following development of the handbook for
Kurunegala, GOSL intends to do the same for other districts;
(c) support for investigation and preparation of other develop-
mental schemes in the district to ensure a pipeline of
sound proposals for future investments in the district; and
(d) support for preparation of similar rural development proj-
ects for about four districts for possible future financing
by IDA or other aid agencies. The districts have been
selected by GOSL taking into consideration: (i) current
living standards; (ii) potential for low-cost, quick-
yielding development; and (iii) balanced regional growth.
The proposed districts and the developmental emphasis are as
follows: Puttalam (coconut and fisheries); Matale (minor
export crops); Vavunia (subsidiary food crops and paddy); and
Moneragala (paddy and rainfed agriculture). The terms of
reference for preparation of the development plans have been
already finalized.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
4.01      Total project costs over the five year project period (January 1979
to December 1983) are estimated at US$30.0 M equivalent. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$12.8 M or about 43% of the total project cost.
CosV estimates are based on unit prices adjusted to January 1979 price levels
and include about US$0.8 M in import taxes and duties. Physical contingen-
cies of 10-15% for civil works, 5% for field works and equipment, and 10% for
recurrent expenditures have been included. Because of the several major in-
vestment programs (e.g. the Mahaweli development) proposed by GOSL for the
next few years as well as the policy-induced price adjustments (para 3.29),
the domestic inflation rates for investment goods, particularly for civil
works, are expected to be substantially higher than the corresponding rates
internationally. Accordingly, price contingencies have been estimated
assuming the following inflation rates.
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1979       1980-83
Foreign Costs               6            6
Local Costs                15           10



- 35 -
4.02      Major elements in the cost estimate are:  civil works (US$6.5 M);
field works (US$2.3 M); 1/ equipment and vehicles (US$4.2 M); crop production
loans (US$4.0 M); loans for farm equipment and vehicles (US$2.9 M); technical
assistance (US$0.7 M), and engineering and administration (US$2.8 M) totalling
to a base project cost of US$23.3 M. Physical contingencies (US$1.4 M) and
price contingencies (US$5.3 M) raise the total project cost to US$30.0 M.
Estimated project costs, detailed in Annex 2, are summarized below (Tables 4.1
and 4.2).
Table 4.1: COST SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
% of
Total
Project
Item            Local    Foreign   "otal  Local   Foreign  Total  Cost
--------(Rs M) -       -- ----- TuS$M)T/a--
1.   Civil Works         81.15       19.35  100.50   5.24       1.25    6.48   22
2.   Field Works         28.05        7.40   B5.45   1.81       0.48    2.29    8
3.   Equipment &
Vehicles         10.75       55.00   6,5.75   0.69       3.55    4.24   14
4.   Crop Production
Loans            18.00       44.0)0   )2.00   1.16       2.84    4.00   13
5.   Loans for Farm
Equipment &
Vehicles         11.20       33.40   44.60   0.72        2.15    2.88   10
6.   Technical
Assistance        2.70        7.75   10.45   0.17        0.50    0.67    2
7.   Engineering &
Administration  35.25         7.65   42.90   2.27        0.49    2.77    9
Base Cost         187.10      174.55  361.65  12.07    11.26   23.33   78
Physical Contingencies 14.65          6.80   21.45   0.95       0.44    1.38    5
Price Contingencies    65.60         16.30   81.90   4.23        1.05    5.28   18
Total Cost        267.35 /b  197.65  465.00  17.25 /b 12.75   30.00  100
/a   Figures in US dollars derived from the corresponding Rupee figures.
Small discrepancies are due to rounding.
/b   Includes about US$0.80 M equivalent in import taxes and duties.
1/   Excluding imputed cost of family labor (US$0.8 M equivalent) to be
used in field works.



- 36 -
Table 4.2:  COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
% of
Total
Cost                       Project
Component                Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
(Rs 11) -------  ------ (US$ M)         /a
A. Directly Productive
Components
Irrigation and            93.50   31.00  124.50   6.03    2.00    8.03   27
Water Management
Coconut Development       60.85   20.90   81.75   3.93    1.35    5.27   18
Agricultural
Extension               12.15    7.85   20.00   0.78    0.51    1.29    4
Agricultural Inputs       10.50   10.,i0  20.90   0.68    0.67    1.35    4
Agricultural Credit       34.00   84.05  118.05   2.19    5.42    7.62   25
Livestock                  0.95    2.L5    3.10   0.06    0.14    0.20    1
Groundwater
Exploration              2.65    7.00    9.65   0.17    0.45    9.62    2
Subtotal           214.60  163.35  377.97  13.85   10.54   24.38   81
B. Social Infrastructure
Rural Roads               11.05    5.95   17.00   0.71    0.38    1.10    4
Rural Water Supply        10.15    3.20   13.35   0.65    0.21    0.86    3
Rural Electrification   11.40    4.20   15.60   0.74    0.27    1.01    3
Health                     2.40-  4.00    6.40   0.15    0.26    0.41    1
EducatiDn                  7.45    7.05   14.50   0.48    0.45    9.94    3
Subtotal             42.45   24.iL0  66.85   2.74    1.57    f.31   14
C. Project Coordination
and Investigations    10.30    9.90   20.20   0.66    0.64    1.30    4
Total Cost          267.35  197.65  465.00  17.25   12.75   30.00  100
/a   Figures in US dollars derived from the corresponding Rupee figures.
Small discrepancies are due to rounding.



- 37 -
Financing
4.03      The proposed IDA credit of US$20.0 M would finance the full foreign
exchange costs and about 42% of the local costs or about 68% of the total
project cost net of taxes and duties. Benefitting farmers and sub-borrowers
would provide about US$4.0 M equivalent as contributions to field works f'or
coconut development, cash purchases of' farm equipment, and down payments and
installment payments on private agriculture investments financed through
institutional credit. Participating commercial banks, the People's Bank and
the Bank of Ceylon, would contribute about US$0.8 M from their own resources
for financing part of the agriculture credit requirements under the project.
GOSL would finance the remaining US$5..2 M from its budgetary resources. Net
of receipts from import taxes and duties on1 the project items, the GOSL con-
tribution would amount to about 15% of: the total project cost.  The proposed
financing plan is summarized below:
Table 4.3:  PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
Item                  Total Cost       ID)A   GOSL    PB/BC    Beneficiaries
------------------X--- (Rs M)-------------------
Civil Works                   100.50       80,40   20.10       -             -
Field Works                    35.45       21,45    5.35       -            8.65
Equipment & Vehicles           65.75       54.50   (1.75)    -              9.50
Crop Prod. Loans               62.00       37,20   18.50       -            6.30
Loans for Farm
Equipment & Vehicles         44.60       31,50  (24.40)  10.50          27.00
Technical Assistance           10.45       10.45      -        -             -
Engineering & Adm.             42.90         --    42.90       -             -
Contingencies                 103.35       74.50   16.30    2.00           10.55
Total                   465.00      310.00   80.50   12.50           62.00
Procurement
4.04      Equipment and Vehicles.  Equipmei,t, vehicles and spares with an esti-
mated cif cost of about US$2.5 M (net of centingencies) would be procured after
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. A
preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods or the import duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation
of bids.  Because of the relatively sraall quantities under the project and the
need for standardization, it would be impractical and costlier to have separate
tenders for much of the educational and medical equipment; accordingly, the
project requirements for these items (cif cost US$0.4 M, net of contingencies)
would be procured together with the national requirements. Relevant pro--
curement procedures of the Ministries of Health and Education were reviewed
and are considered satisfactory. Due to strong consumer preferences, ICB
would also be impractical for procurement of vehicles and equipment which
are to be sold to departmiental staff or the farmers (cif cost US$0.5 M, net
of contingencies); hence, they would be procured by concerned agencies through



- 38 -
prudent shopping, following procedures satisfactory to IDA. To promote stand-
ardizatior, equipment for the seed prozessing center (base cost US$60,000)
would alsc be procured through prudent shopping. Small off-the-shelf items
costing lEss than US$10,000 each, whic- cannot be bulked into packages suitable
for international tendering or items needed urgently for expeditious project
implementation, would be procured throigh prudent shopping in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA. ion-ICB equipment purchases vould be
limited to an aggregate of US$1.2 M.
4.05      Civil Works.  Because most civil works would be labor-intensive,
relatively small, restricted to seasonal construction, scattered over a wide
area and could not be grouped into large contracts, they would be unsuitable
for ICB. Also, at present the private sector in Sri Lanka has a very limited
capacity for construction works and mush of that capacity would be preempted
by programs such as the Mahaweli. Many Government departments and agencies,
on the other hand, have considerable eKperience and capacity for such works.
Accordingly, the civil works under the project (base cost US$6.5 M) would
mostly be done on force account or through small unit-cost contracts with
local labor groups. To encourage development of the private sector construc-
tion capability, works under agricultural extension, coconut develcpment,
health, livestock, agricultural input services and project coordination (base
cost US$0.7 M) would be earmarked for award to private contractors through
local competitive bidding, following procedures satisfactory to IDA. To assist
the small contractors, the Project Director (para 5.04) may undertake the bulk
procurement of construction materials such as cement, bricks and timber. In
case of inadequate response from the private sector, these works wculd also
be undertzken through force account.
4.06      Field Works.  Field developm,nt works for coconut lands (base cost
US$2.3 M) would be undertaken by the b2neficiaries on force account using
family anc/or hired labor and inputs pirchased through normal commercial
channels.
4.07      Agricultural Credit.  Farm ilputs, equipment and vehicles (base cost
US$6.9 M) under agricultural credit would be purchased by the sub-borrowers
through normal commercial channels. A sufficient number of local dealerships
and agencies are available to ensure competitive prices and wide ranging choice
of appropriate equipment. The market conditions would be monitored by ADA and
reviewed by IDA supervision missions from time to time and in case there were
to be inadequate competition or excessive prices in the local market, arrange-
ments would be made for procurement through ICB with due regard to consumer
preferences.
4.08      Technical Assistance.  Hiring of consultants (para 5.15) for assist-
ance in project implementation (base cost US$0.5 M) would be in accordance
with IDA guidelines.
Disbursements
4.09      Disbursements would be made for:



_ 3,9 _
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of local expenditures
ex-factory or 80% of local eKpenditures for equipment,
vehicles and spares;
(b)  100% of the cost of technical assistance;
(c)  80% of the cost of civil works including construction
materials;
(d)  80% of the financial assistance, in excess of Rs 1.0 M 1/
per ,-alendar year, by GOSL for field works;
(e)  40% of the disbursements, in excess of Rs 7.0 M 2/ per calendar
year, for cultivation loans by the Peoples' Bank and the
Bank of Ceylon (this would be eqtivalent to financing about
60% of the incremental cultivaticn loans); and
(f) 80% of the loans disbursed by thE People's Bank and the
Bank of Ceylon for agricultural Equipment and vehicles.
Disbursements for items (c) - (f) would be made against statements of ecpend-
itures, the dozumentation for which would le audited and retained for r,view
by IDA supervision missions. All other diEbursements would be made against
full documentation. Disbursement percentag.es and categories would be re-
viewed by IDA from time to time and amendec, if necessary.  The Project
Director (para 5.04) would be responsible lor preparing claims for disbarse-
ments from IDA.
4.10       It is expected that the disbursements would be completed by Jane 30,
1984, about SiK months after the end of prcject implementation. The semi-
annual schedule of disbursements is estimated to be as follows:
1979/80  1980/81   I'81/82   1982/83    1983/84
IDA Fiscal Year
and Semester      1st 2nd  1st 2nd  1st  2nd   1st  2nd   1st  2nd
Cummulative
Disbursement
(us$ M)           1.0 3.0  6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0  14.0 16.0  18.0 20.0
To enable speeding completion of prel-iminaiy project works and investigations,
retroactive financing of upto US$0.5 14 is proposed for eligible project expendi-
tures incurred from January 1, 1979 onwards. Any funds remaining in the
credit account, after the end of project iriplementation, would be cancelled
unless, subject to IDA's concurrence, suitable project related expenditures
can be identified.
1/   The approximate financial assistance by GOSL for field works in the
Kurunegala district during 1978.
2/   The approximate loan disbursements in the Kurunegala district by the
People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon during 1978.



- 40 -
Accounts and Audits
4.11      To simplify project accounts, all budgetary allocations for the
project would be included in the budget of the Ministry of Plan Implementation,
the principal coordinating agency for the project (para 5.01). The Ministry
of Plan Implementation would, in turn, release the funds to the various imple-
menting agencies through the Project Director (para 5.04). Each implementing
agency would be allowed to make payments and claim reimbursements from the
Project Director for staff salaries and allowances, payments on contracts
below Rs 100,000 and sundry purchases below Rs 5,000. All other payments
would be settled directly by the Project Director after receipt of certified
documents from the implementing agencies. Assurances have been obtained from
GOSL that all agencies involved in project implementation would prepare and
maintain separate accounts for the project in accordance with sound account-
ing practices. Such accounts, together with disbursement documents, would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The Project
Director (para 5.04) would consolidate the accounts from the various agencies
and submit to IDA certified copies of the audited accounts together with the
auditor's reports within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit
report would include, inter alia, a statement verifying that funds disbursed
by IDA against statements of expenditures had been used for the purpose for
which they were provided.  The project accounts on agricultural credit would
continue to be audited for five years after the end of project implementation.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Implementation Responsibility
5.01      The various project componen:s would be implemented by existing
Government agencies and departments normally concerned with those components.
There would, however, be some rationalization of the functions, e.g., consol-
idation of all agricultural extension services under the Department of Agri-
culture. Altogether, there would be 21) agencies from 11 different ministries,
having implementation responsibility under the project as described below.
Table 5.1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Agency                                Responsibility
1.   Ministry of Land and Development
(a)  Irrigation Department (ID)         - Irrigation rehabilitation works.
- Lift irrigation schemes.
- Water management in major tank
schemes.
(b)  Water Resources Board              - Groundwater exploration.



- 41 -
Agency                               Responsibility
2.   Ministry of Agricultural
Development and Research
(a) Department of Agriculturet (DA) - Agricultural extension (including
extension for coconut areas).
- Establishment of seed processing
center for field crops.
(b)  Department of Minor Export        - Nurseries and demonstration plots
Crops (DMEC)                        for coconut intercrops (cocoa,
coffee and pepper).
(c)  Agrarian Research and             - Project Evaluation.
Training Institute (AR1'I)
(d)  Agricultural Development   )   - Water management in village irri-
Authority (ADA)            )        gation schemes.
(e)  Agrarian Services            )   - Coordination of farm input
Division (ASD)             )        supplies.
3.   Ministry of Coconut Development
(a)  Coconut Cultivation Board        - Nurseries and fertilizer distri-
(CCB)                               bution for coconuts.
- Administration of subsidy programs
for coconut development.
4.   Ministry of Rural Industrial
Development
(a)  Department of Animal             - Livestock
Production and Health (DAPH)
5.   Ministry of Finance and Planning
(a)  People's Bank (PB)           )   - Administration of rural credit
(b)  Bank of Ceylon (BC)          )          program.
6.   Ministry of Power and Highways
(a)  Department of Highways           - Rural roads.
(b)  Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) - Rural electrification.
7.   Ministry of Health
(a)  Department of Health             - Rural health.



- 42-
Agency                               Responsibility
8.   Ministry of Education
(a)  Regional Department of           - Primary and secondary education.
Education
9.   Mini_try of Higher Education          - Vocational education.
10. Ministry of Local Government,
Housing and Construction
(a)  Department of Local           )
Government Services         ) - Rural water supply.
(b)  National Water Supply and   )
Drainage Board              )
11. Ministry of Plan Implementation
(a)  Regional Development             - Overall project coordination and
Division                            management.
- Preparation of development proj-
ects for four other districts.
(b)  Census and Statistics             - Preparation of statistical hand-
Division                            book for the Kurunegala district.
5.02      The proposed implementing agencies are generally well experienced
with the types of work included under the project. Their operational policies
and procedures relevant to the proposed projects have been reviewed and
revised, wohere necessary. With additi3nal staffing, technical assistance
(para 5.1L), and infrastructural support to be provided under the project,
all agencies are expected to be fully zapable of implementing their respective
component,.
Coordination and Management
5.03      Given the large number of agencies involved in implementation and
the strong interdependence among some of the components, I/ successful project
implementation would depend crucially upon the capacity for a quick resolution
of policy issues and for close monitoring, supervision and coordination of
the work programs of various agencies.
5.04       The proposed organizational set-up is shown in Chart 20053.  A full
time Project Director (PD) with the rank of Additional Government Agent has
been appointed to coordinate various project activities under the general
supervision of the Government Agent (GA) and the District Minister. The
Project Director's responsibilities include:
1/   Particularly Irrigation and Water Management, Agricultural Extension,
Credit, Input supplies and Coconut Development.



- 43 -
(a) preparation of annual work programs and budgets in collab-
oration with the various implementing agencies;
(b) release of funds.and payments for project expenditures;
(c) maintenance of consolidated project accounts;
(d) preparation of claims for reimbursements from IDA credit;
(e) monthly progress review with each of the implementing
agencies;
(f)  resolution of implementation bottlenecks; and
(g) liaEing with the Project Steerin,7 Committee (para 5.06)
on all project matters.
Adequate support staff will be provided to the Project Director for prcpe!r
discharge of his responsibilities.
5.05      A PIoject Coordinating Committee comprising district heads of
the various project agencies 1/ has been established to discuss and resolve
inter-departmental coordination problems.  The committee is chaired by the
District Mini&iter with the PD as the Tnember-secretary.  The committee il
meet at least once a month.
5.06      To resolve project-related polic9 issues as well as implementation
bottlenecks and coordination problems whici could not be resolved at tte dis-
trict level, a Project Steering Commiittee comprising heads of the concerned
agencies and departments as well as GA Kuranegala and the Project Director
has been established in Colombo. The committee is chaired by the Secretary,
Ministry of Plan Implementation with the Director, Regional Development as
its member-secretary. Besides coordination and trouble-shooting at th*
highest level, the Committee is responsible for:
(a) reviewing and approving the annual work programs and budgets;
(b) reviewing quarterly progress reports;
(c) ensuring general consistency of policies and practices in
various district development projects; and
(d) liasing with IDA on all project-related policy matters.
The Committee will be serviced by a small Project Cell in the Regional
Development Division. The Cell would work in close cooperation with the
Project Director in Kurunegala.
1/   District heads of other agencies may be called to attend committee
meetings, as necessary.



- 44 -
5.07      To encourage popular participation and mobilize support for the
project, the GA, through the District Minister, would keep the elected
representatives from the district, fully briefed on the work program under the
project as well as the progress and unresolved implementation bottlenecks.
5.08      The organizational arrangements described above are considered
particularly appropriate as they would:
(a) basically work through existing agencies and departments
rather than create new organizations and/or project
authorities;
(b) provide strong capability for programming, monitoring
and troubleshooting;
(c) be replicable for similar projects in other districts; and
(d) be consistent with the recently established District
Minister setup.
5.09      Assurances have been obtained that the Project Coordination Com-
mittee and the Project Steering Committee would continue to function with
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. Assurances have also
been obtained that the Government would continue to employ a Project Director
with experience, qualifications, and functions and responsibilities satis-
factory to IDA.
Implementation Schedule
5.10      Overall project implementation would take five years (Charts 20054-
55). However, several components -- groundwater exploration, rural electri-
fication, health, agricultural input supplies, livestock and agricultural
extension are expected to be substantially complete by the end of the third
year. Site surveys for most buildings under the project are already underway
and construction should be completed in about two years. Tender dccuments
for construction and agricultural equipment have already been prepared and
have been reviewed by IDA. They are expected to be issued by mid-March with
awards by July 1979, and site deliveries in late 1979. Staff mobilization
began in January 1979 and most new staff is expected to be in place by June
1979.
5.11      Much of the supporting infrastructure for agricultural intensifi-
cation, e.g., establishment of the T&V extension system, establishment of
nurseries for coconut, cocoa, coffee and pepper, construction of fertilizer
stores, construction of seed processing center and strengthening of agricul-
tural credit operations, would be in place within two years of starting the
project. Emphasis in the remaining three years would be on rehabilitation
of irrigation works, introduction of irrigation water management, consolida-
tion of agricultural credit operations and stepping up of the coconut devel-
opment program.



- 45 -
5.12      By September 30 of each year, the Project Director in collaboration
with the various implementing agencies would prepare a detailed work program,
together with associated budgetary requirements, for the following calenidar
year. The program would be supported by appropriate maps, charts and dLa-
grams and include estimated MLanpower ancl material requirements. Following
a review by the Project Steering Committ:ee, the work program would be sub-
mitted to IDA for comments.  Assurances have been obtained that by October 31
of each year, IDA would receive, for comments, the detailed work program for
the following calendar year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.13      Monitoring of the project's progress would be through monthly
reports by the concerned staff of the various implementing agencies. The
Project Director would compile and consolidate the individual reports for
review and discussion at the monthly meeting of the Project Coordination
Committee. Based on the monthly reports, the Project Director would also
prepare quarterly progress reports for -review by the Project Steering Com-
mittee. To avoid burdening the field staff with excessive paper work, monthly
progress reports would be kept short and Liclude only data of key importance.
Formats for these reports would be workesd cut jointly by the Project Director
and the concerned agencies with assistance from the Progress Control Unit
of the Ministry of Plan Implementation. The quarterly reports together with
other relevant project records will be used to prepare a comprehensive annual
progress report. Assurances have been obtained that the quarterly progress
reports would be submitted to IDA within ore month of the end of the quarter
under review. An assurance has also been cbtained that the annual progress
report would be sent to IDA by March 31 of the following year.
5.14      In view of the prototype nature cf the project, high priority would
be given to evaluating the direct and indiTect impact of the project as well
as socio-economic characteristics of the bEneficiaries. Overall responsibil-
ity for project evaluation would rest with the Agrarian Research and Train-
ing Institute (ARTI), a well established national research organization
with substantial experience in evaluation cf rural development projects.
Benchmark data for the evaluation would cone mostly from two on-going sirveys
-- the National Agrarian Survey by ARTI and the Consumer Finance Survey by
the Central Balk (CB).  The two surveys would provide rather comprehensive
information on production and employment lEvels as well as living standards.
Also, as the coverage of the two surveys wculd be countrywide, they wouLd
include a built-in control group. The two surveys are expected to be rapeated
periodically -- the ARTI survey every two years and the CB survey every five
years. Thus, ,ubsequent surveys would capture the project impact. The
Central Bank aid the ARTI would be providec any infrastructural support, if
necessary, for their surveys in the Kurunegala district. Support would also
be provided for more detailed processing ar.d analysis of the survey data
concerning Kurunegala. If for any reason ARTI and CB surveys could not be
repeated in the future, provision would be made under the project for their
continuation in the Kurunegala district. Irk addition to benchmark and fDllow-
up surveys, small in-depth studies, focussed on specific aspects of the
project would be undertaken by contracting local universities and research



- 46 -
institutions. The in-depth studies would particularly emphasize analysis of
the socio-economic factors contributing to or constraining successful adoption
of new techniques by the project area farmers. Assurances have been obtained
that by December 31, 1979, IDA would receive for review and comments a detailed
plan for project evaluation.
Technical Assistance
5.15      To strengthen the implementation capacity of the various project
agencies, the project would include a total of about 6 man-years of indivi-
dual consultants as detailed below:
(a)  two man-years of a development planning specialist to assist
the Regional Development Division in preparing integrated
district development plans for four other districts in
Sri Lanka;
(b)  two man-years of a farm management specialist to advise the
Department of Agriculture in developing suitable packages for
the extension service, working out arrangements for sale of
farm machinery and equipment and planning for improved water
management in village irrigation schemes; and
(c)  a total of 24 man-months of short-term specialists to advise:
(i) Water Resource Board on hydrological mapping and
groundwater surveys in hard crystalline rock areas using
resistivity techniques: (ii) Department of Census and
Statistics in preparation of a District Statistical Hand-
book for Kurunegala; (iii) People's Bank and the Bank of
Ceylon in strengthening their agricultural credit operations;
(iv) Department of Minor Export Crops for improving process-
ing and packaging of cocoa; (v) Ministry of Higher Educa-
tion on curricula development for vocational education in
the district; and (vi) ARTI in project evaluation.
The estimated costs for consulting services range from US$4,000-7,500 per
man-month depending upon the speciality as well as the duration of assign-
ment. Average cost would be about US$6,000 per man-month. 1/ The detailed
terms of reference for the development planning specialist and the farm
management specialist have already been agreed upon. Assurances have been
obtained from GOSL for hiring suitably qualified consultants for the above
assignments in accordance with timetables, and on terms and conditions,
satisfactory to IDA.
5.16      The project would also make provisions for short-term study tours
by the selected project staff for observing the design and implementation of
similiar developmental projects in neighboring countries.
1/   Consisting of salary, US$3,500; atlowances, US$1,200; travel, US$500;
settlement, US$300; and miscellan4-ous, US$500.



- 47 -
Operation and Maintenance
5.17      Irrigation Works.  The Irrigation Department would be responsible
for O&M of the major irrigation schemes down to the distributary level.
Responsibility for O&M of field channels (in major schemes) as well as the
village irrigation schemes would rest with the benefiting farmers who would
be supervised and advised by the Cultivation Officers (COs) of ASD. The COs
would receive technical guidance from ID and they would closely coordinate
the O&M work with the agricultural extension program, particularly concerning
cropping calendars and water delivery schedules. The mobile pumps for supple-
mentary lift irrigation would be operated and maintained by ID.
5.18      For the past several years, O&M standards in irrigation schemes in
Sri Lanka have been unsatisfactory due to Inadequate budgetary allocations
to ID as well as a lack of suitable instituitional arrangements for mobilizing
cooperation from the farmers. GOSL is ser:.ously concerned about poor O&M
standards in the irrigation schemes and has already decided to double bucdg-
etary allocations to ID for maintenance works.  For village schemes and for
field channels, ID would oversee the maintenance and water distribution opera-
tions organized by the COs. Any deficiencies would be reported to the con-
cerned AGA. In case remedial action is not taken, authority would be given
to ID to undertake the required maintenance works on force account and to
assess appropriate charges against the beneficiaries for collection through
the AGA.
5.19      Agricultural Equipment, Vehicles and Services.  Adequate repair
facilities and workshops exist in the private sector to provide maintenance
services for farm equipment and vehicles to be sold to farmers and coopera-
tives under the project. Motorcycles and bicycles sold to Government staff
would also be maintained by private workshops. O&M of departmentally-owned
vehicles and equipment would be the responsibility of the respective depart-
ments.  Coconut nurseries would be operated and maintained by CCB while those
for cocoa, coffee and pepper would be maintained by DMEC.  The seed processing
center for field crops would be managed by the Seed and Planting Materials
Division of DA. Godowns and vehicles for fertilizer distribution would be
managed by CCB and MPCs. Monitoring and coordination of the various farm in-
put supply services would be the responsibility of ADA. Estimated incremental
recurrent expenditures, over the five year project period, for agricultural
extension, the coconut development program and coordination of farm input
supplies have been included under the project. After project completion,
they would be financed through annual budgetary appropriations to DA, CC]3,
DMEC and ADA.
5.20      Other Works.  The maintenance and repairs of the rehabilitated
rural roads would be done by the Highways Department. Educational buildings
and equipment would be maintained by the Education Department. Drinking water
wells would be maintained by the beneficiaries under supervision by the
Department of Local Government Services. CEB would be responsible for the
O&M of rural electrification schemes as well as the diesel generators for
the Health Department. Health buildings will be maintained by the Buildings



- 48 -
Departments. Adequate budgetary provisions would be made to the various
agencies for proper O&M of project works and facilities.
5.21      Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that:  (i) all major
irrigation works, roads and buildings constructed and rehabilitated under
the project would be maintained in accordance with sound engineering prac-
tices and that adequate staff and funds would be provided for this purpose;
(ii) inst-.tutional arrangements for O&M of village irrigation schemes and
field channels in major tank schemes would be satisfactory to IDA; and
(iii) annual budgetary allocations for the various implementing agencies
would be :;uitably increased to provide for project related recurrerlt expen-
ditures.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Cropping  :ntensities, Yields and Production
6.01      Paddy.  Rehabilitation and improvement of some 500 village irri-
gation sclhemes under the project would increase the irrigated area in the
district by about 10,000 ac. Introduction of improved water management
practices and easy availability of farm power would enable higher (ropping
intensities. Provision of mobile pumps for supplementary lift irrigation
during periods of drought would reduce the risk of crop failures. Finally,
the strenlgthening of the agricultural extension service and improved avail-
ability o0 farm input supplies would promote higher crop yields.  While the
yields arie expected to grow considerably even without the project, only minor
increases in cropping intensities would be feasible without the project effort
in irrigai:ion and water management. The estimated present and projected
future areas, yields and production levels, detailed in Annex 3, Tn.ble 1,
are summarized below. The yield levels correspond to the input usage rates
detailed -n Annex 3, Table 3.



- 49 -
Table 6.1: PRESENT AND FUTURE: PADDY PRODUCTION
Future    Future            % Increase )ver
Without    With                      Futare
Present   Project   Project   Present   Without Project
Asweddumized Area
('000 ac)                 170       175         180        6             3
of which Irrigated
('000 ac)                  95       100         110       16            10
Gross Sown Area              239       248         272       14             10
('000 ac) /a             (140)    (142)        (151)
Gross Harvested Area         213       222         250       17             13
('000 ac) /b              (89)      (89)        (92)
Average Yield                 45        49          55       22             12
(bushels/ac) /c            (0.92)   (1.00)       (1.12)
Production (M. bushels) /d   8.2         9.2         11.6    41             26
(167.3)  (187.7)    (236.7)
/a   Figures in parenthesis are cropping int:ensity percentages (i.e. gross
sown area t asweddumized area).
/b   Figures in parenthesis give success rat:e percentages (i.e. gross
harvested area - gross sown area).
/c   On net harvested area basis.  By clefin:-tion, in Sri Lanka net harvested
area is taken as 85% of the gross harvested area.  Figures in parenthesis
are yields in metric tons per ac.
/d   Figures in parenthesis are production .n thousand metric tons.
6.02       Coconut.  The improved husbandry program as well as the stepped--up
replantingr/undeplanting program would increase yields and production, partic-
ularly on smallholdings in the wet and semi-wet zones. By 1991 when the
plantings under the project would come into full bearing, the average per ac
yield would increase from about 1,700 nuts ./ at present to 2,400 nuts. 2/
Without the project, the yield in 1991 is e.pected to increase only to about
2,000 nuts, mostly as recovery from thes after-effects of the prolonged drought
1/   The average copra content of a nut is about 200 gms.
2/   Assuming no further intensification of rehabilitation works after project
completion in 1983. With intensification substantially higher yields
should be possible.



- 50 -
in the miC-1970s. The total production would increase by about 260 M nuts
(40%) of which 155 M nuts (25%) would be due to the project (Annex 3, Table 2).
The present and projected future input usage rates are described in Annex 3,
Table 4.
6.03      Other Crops.  By 1988 when the coconut intercrops supported under
the project would reach full maturity, the annual production of cocoa, coffee
and pepper is expected to increase by 225 tons, 410 tons and 410 tons, res-
pectively. 1/ Due to improvements in agricultural supporting services, yield
increases of 10-20% are expected in chana crops such as manioc, chillies,
coarse grains and pulses. Some expansion in area under pulses and coarse
grains ane' vegetables is also expected as the improved water management pro-
gram wouli. promote shifting the more drainable asweddumized areas irom paddy
into upland crops during the yala season. Due to uncertainty about present
productiorn levels as well as year to year variations in future cropped areas,
no attempt has been made to quantify the production increases in c-ena crops.
Market Prospects and Prices
6.04      Marketing.  During the past five years, Sri Lanka has imported an
annual average of 375,000 tons of rice or about 30% of its total rice consump-
tion. Given considerable underutilization of the production potential, as
well as proposed investments for further expansion of asweddumized area, the
self sufficiency is likely to improve considerably over the next decade. There
should, however, be no problem in absorbing the project-related increase of
some 32,000 tons, less than 10% of the current import level. The on-going
USAID program for strengthening marketing, storages and milling operations
would overcome localized constraints, if any.
6.05      Due to depressed production levels and steadily increasirg domestic
demand, coconut exports have suffered a large reduction during the past few
years. Sii Lanka's share in the world exports is small (about 5%) and export
channels are well developed.  Accordingly, the project related increase of
155 M nutu (about 20% of current export levels) would be readily absorbed.
6.06      For cocoa, coffee and pepper, the increase due to the project would
amount to 10-15% of the current production in Sri Lanka. All three are ex-
port crops with Sri Lanka's share amounting to about 1% of the world exports.
The channels for marketing and export of these products are adequate and are
likely to improve further as these "non-traditional" items become more pro-
minent in Sri Lanka's exports. Short-term consultants have been included
under the project (para 5.15) to advise on primary processing and packaging
of raw cocoa beans as the present stanlards are unsatisfactory.
6.07       Production increases in chena crops would mostly be for local con-
sumption within the project area.  Due to import restrictions on crops such
1/   The estimated average yield per intercropped ac would be cocoa, 250 lbs.;
coffee, 300 lbs; and pepper, 300 lbs.



- 51 -
as pulses, chillies and onions, the current consumption levels are much below
those in the 1960s and there is a substantial dormant demand in the local
markets. Proximity to the major urban center in Colombo would facilitate
marketing of any local surpluses.
6.08      Prices.  Most agricultural prices in Sri Lanka are heavily in-
fluenced by GOSL interventions such as import/export controls and taxes,
consumer/producer subsidies and the various guaranteed price schemes (GPS).
For paddy and coconut, both staple items in the Sri Lanka diet, typically,
domestic prices have been maintained 30-40% below the world market prices.
For coconut, this is achieved through quantitative export restrictions as
well as export taxes and duties. Paddy prices are managed through free and/
or subsidized food rations as well as guaranteed price schemes for the pro-
ducers. The below world-market prices have generally been accompanied by
subsidies on production inputs such as fert:ilizers and irrigation water as
well as on land development works (e.g. coLonization schemes for paddy and
field works fcr coconut rehabilitation and intercropping). GOSL recognizes
the crucial importance of well conceived agricultural price policies and is
trying to evolve improved policies balancing the divergent consumer and pro-
ducer interests while minimizing the budgetary burden. During the past 18
months it has made the following major changes in agricultural prices:
(a) increase of GPS price for paddy from Rs 33 to Rs 40 per bushel; (b) reduc-
tion in free and subsidized food rations; (c) doubling of fertilizer prices
to reflect increased procurement prices following the November 1977 exchange
rate adjustment; (d) a 30-40% increase in subsidies for coconut rehabilitation
works; and (e) an increase of about 30% in domestic coconut prices through
adjustments in export taxes on coconut: pro<lucts. The financial analysis of
the proposed Kurunegala project is based oni current policies. The prices used
in the analysis for various inputs and outputs are shown in Annex 3, Table 5.
Farm Incomes
6.09      Present and future farm income levels have been analyzed for six
different farm models -- three in the wet/semi-wet zones and three in the
dry/semi-dry zones. The models are based on farms of 2.5 ac, 5.0 ac and
12.0 ac representing, respectively the small (65%), medium (30%) and large
(5%) farmers (para 2.14). For models in the wet/semi-wet zones, coconut is
the main crop and most paddy is either rainfed or under minor irrigation.
Models in the dry zone emphasize irrigated paddy. Following the existing
patterns, cropping intensities are assumed to decline somewhat with increase
in the farm size. Average per ac input wage rates are shown in Annex 3,
Tables 3-4. The estimated farm incomes, detailed in Annex 3, Table 6, are
summarized below:



- 52 -
Table 6.2: PRESENT AND FUTURE FARM INCOMES
Increase
Over
Future     Future                Future
Without      With     Over       Without
Present   Project   Project   Present   Project
 __-------(Rs)------------
Wet/Semi-wet Zones
Small Farm (2.5 ac)
Gross Value of Production       3,660      4,110      5,210        42         27
Production Costs /a               935      1,025      1,295        38         26
Net Farm Income /b              2,725      3,085      3,915        44         27
Medium Farm (5.0 ac)
Gross Value of Production       6,625      7,470      9,370        41         25
Production Costs /a             1,460      1,645      2,195        50         33
Net Farm Income /b              5,165      5,825      7,175        39         23
Large Farm (12.0 ac)
Gross Value of Production    15,160    17,380    21,400            41         23
Production Costs /a             3,405      3,860      5,155        52         34
Net Farm Income /b             11,755    13,520    16,245          36         20
Dry/Semi-dry Zones
Small Farri (2.5 ac)
Gross V.dlue of Production      4,780      5,190      6,730        41         30
Product:.on Costs /a            1,360      1,500      2,015        48         34
Net Farm Income /b              3,420      3,690      4,715        38         28
Medium Farm (5.0 ac)
Gross Value of Production       8,260      9,250    11,290         37         22
Production Cost /a              2,340      2,585      3,340        43         29
Net Farm Income /b              5,920      6,665      7,950        34         19
Large Farm (12.0 ac)
Gross Value of Production    16,600    19,700    23,540            41         19
Production Cost /a              4,720      5,180      6,805        44         31
Net Farm Income /b             11,880    14,520    16,735          40         15
/a   Excluding cost of family labor.
/b   Including returns to family labor.



- 53 -
6.10      Typically, the gross values of production and the net farm inzomes
would increase by about 40% over the present level and 25% above the future
level expected without the project. 1/ The increases are expected to be
somewhat larger in the wet/semi-wet zones where present income levels are
somewhat lower and the scope for rehabilitation (of coconut) greater. Also,
the gains in net farm incomes are expected to be somewhat lower on larger
holdings as they would have to use more hired labor while on smaller holdings,
due to underemployed family labor, hired labor requirements would be minimal.
The projected increases are considered adequate for active participation of
the beneficiaries in project activities.
6.11      Estimation of financial rates of return on some specific farm
activities under the project (e.g. replanting/underplanting of coconuts, inter-
cropping with cocoa, coffee and pepper and custom operation of farm tractors)
indicates annual returns of 25-40% and hence they should all find ready accept-
ance by the farmers.
Cost Recovery
6.12      It is estimated that about 60% o.' the project-related increase in
paddy production and 90% of the increased coconut production would be marketed.
Assuming continuation of the current pricing policies, the marketed surplus
would mean an annual "transfer" of about Rs 77 M (in 1978 prices) from pro-
ject area farmers to GOSL as well as urban consumers because of differentials
in the domestic and world-market prices of paddy and coconut products. 2/ Net
of the estimated incremental subsidy burden of Rs 23 M per annum on account
of increased fertilizer use and about Rs 4 M per annum as incremental O&M
expenditures, the project "recovery" would amount to about Rs 50 M per annum.
At a discount rate of 10% per annum, the present value of the projected stream
of net transfers from the project area farmers would amount to about Rs 220 M.
This compares to the present value of Rs 195 M of proposed GOSL investmients
under the project. 3/ Thus, continuation of the present policies would lead
to full recovery of all project investments including those in social infra-
structure.
6.13      An analysis of the "project rents"4/ using farm gate prices corres-
ponding to world-market prices indicates that the prevailing agricultural
1/   These figures are averages only.  Clearly, some farmers would benefit
much more than others. It is expected, however, that project benefits
would be widely dispersed and at least three-quarters of the farm
families would benefit appreciably.
2/   About 1.4 M bu of paddy at Rs 25 per bu and 140 M coconuts at
Rs 0.30 per nut.
3/   Excluding price contingencies, agricultural credit and farmers' own
contribution to coconut rehabilitation works.
4/   Simply stated, "project rent" is the incremental net value of production
adjusted for uncertainty in farm incomes and appropriate rewards for
additional family labor and farm management requirements.



- 54 -
price and subsidy policies in Sri Lanka imply rent "recovery" rates of over
50%. In view of these and the low income levels of most project beneficiaries,
no new charges are stipulated under the project at this time and the project
would operate within the framework of GOSL policies applicable nationally.
For the future, before adopting any major policy changes, GOSL would give
due consideration to their likely impact on "recoveries" on the project in-
vestments, Assurances have been obtained that the Government woulcl maintain
mutually aigreed cost recovery levels for the project and that in order to
promote maximum recovery consistent with adequate incentives to project area
farmers arid its distributive objectives, it would, from time to tinme, review
and discuss with IDA the various cost recovery policies.
Impact on the Government Budget
6.14       During project implementation, GOSL would contribute about Rs 62 M
(net of taxes and duties) for financing part of the project expenditures.
However, this would be more than offset by repayment of about Rs 65i M on
project-financed agricultural credit outstanding at project completion. The
budgetary impact after project implementation would depend greatly upon GOSL
policies on agricultural prices and subsidies. Assuming the continuation of
the current policies, the project would generate a net surplus of about
Rs 21 M (constant 1979 prices) per annum as summarized below:
(a)  receipt of about Rs 28 M per annum as taxes and duties on
incremental coconut exports (assuming conservatively that
60% of the project related increase would be exported);
(b)  savings of about Rs 20 M per annum due to procurement of
paddy for ration at below world-market prices (assuming
only one-third of the incremental production is procured
by GOSL);
(c)  outlays of about Rs 4 M per innum for incremental O&M of
project facilities and services; and
(d)  outlays of about Rs 23 M per annum for subsidies on incre-
mental fertilizer use.
The indirect impact from additional tax revenues from increased activities
in secondary and tertiary sectors would also be positive although it has not
been quantified.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01       The proposed project would assist the Government of Sri Lanka in
raising incomes, employment and living standards of some 170,000 farm families
in the Kurunegala District. The projeczt would also have a beneficial effect
on GOSL's balance of payments as well is its budgetary position. Even more
importantly, the project would help the Government in evolving a low-cost,



- 55 -
quick-yielding, labor-intensive model of regional development for replication
in other areas of the country.
Production and Balance of Payments
7.02      At full development in 1991, successful project implementation would
lead to incremental annual production of about 2.4 M bushels of paddy (32,000
tons of rice) and about 155 M nuts of coconut, both about 25% above the levels
expected without the project. At projected world market prices, the gross
value of incremental paddy and coconut production would be about US$21 M per
annum. Allowing for the added imports of fertilizers, agro-chemicals, fann
equipment and fuels, the project would repr,!sent a net annual foreign ex-
change savings of about US$16 M.
7.03      The production of cocoa, coffee a.d pepper, to be introduced as
intercrops on coconut lands, would each inc:ease by about 300 tons per annum
with prospects of large scale replication aEter the project. The production
of subsidiary food crops such as maize, pulGes, manioc, onions and chillies
would also increase substantially although The expected increments have not
been quantified.
Employment
7.04      The labor-intensive works to be constructed under the project would
create employment of about 4 M man-days durLng project implementation. Another
2.5 M man-days of employment would be created in field works for replanting/
underplanting and intercropping of coconut Lands. More intensive land use and
improved crop husbandry practices under the project would result in additional
annual farm employment of about 5 M man-day; -- 2 M in coconut, 2.2 M in paddy,
0.4 M in coconut intercrops and the rest in chena and home gardens. Increased
agricultural production, through backward and forward linkages, would also
create substantial new employment in activities such as marketing, processing,
transportation, input supplies and consumer services. 1/  All this would help
to relieve the large unemployment and underemployment situation prevailing in
the project area, particularly during the s'Lack periods.
Social Infrastructure
7.05      Social infrastructure financed under the project would improve trans-
port facilities for about 20,000 families currently living in relatively remote
areas, improve drinking water supplies to some 6,000 families in water deficit
areas, supply electric services to about 1,0)00 rural households, provide
better health care for about 20,000 farlrilie3 in remote areas, improve instruc-
tional facilities at about 300 schools, and strengthen vocational education
facilities in the district. These improvements would, by no means, solve all
shortcomings in the district social infrast:ucture.  They would however,
satisfy the more urgent needs as perceived by the intended beneficiaries.
1/   Preliminary data from similar areas in Asia indicates that an increase
of US$1,500-2,000 in agricultural production generates one full time
job in the local non-farm sector. On this basis, the project may create
as many as 10,000 non-farm jobs.



- 56 -
Distributive Impact
7.06      Over two-thirds of the project beneficiaries would be small farmers
with operational holdings of 3 ac or less (para 2.14). Their present income
levels are mostly below the poverty level of US$50 per capita per annum. Im-
proved land productivity and increased on-farm and off-farm employment under
the project would enable some 25% of the farm families in the district to
move above the poverty level. Also by siting project-financed social infra-
structure mostly in the backward areas of the district, the project would help
reduce intra-district disparities. It should be noted, however, that as most
of the direct benefits from the project would come from increased farm pro-
ductivity, the distribution of benefits must largely follow the existing land
owership pattern. Thus, even though about two-thirds of the intended bene-
ficiaries belong to the "target" group, only about one-third of the direct
benefits are expected to accrue to that group. Accordingly, while the propor-
tion of farm households below the poverty level is expected to decline sig-
nificantly, the overall distributional pattern would remain largely unchanged.
Environmental Impact
7.07      The project would have no adverse environmental impact.  Instead,
the strengthened agricultural extension service, by educating farmers about
safe and proper use of agro-chemicals, would work to improve the environment.
Provision of safe drinking water supplies as well as strengthening of pre-
ventive health care services under the project would also benefit the project
area environment.
Economic Fate of Return
7.08      Most of the project componen:s -- irrigation and water management,
agricultural extension, coconut develo3ment, agricultural input suFplies and
agricultural credit -- are interdependent i.e. the benefits from any one depend
upon whether the other are implemented. Thus, the project has to be evaluated
as a package. However, to ensure viability of each individual components, to
the extent feasible and meaningful, benefits anid costs have also been analyzed
separately. The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a)  Prices:  For internationally traded goods, the farm gate
prices used in the economic analysis are derived from
projected 1985 world market prices expressed in 1979
currency values. Appropriate adjustments have been made
for freight, handling and prDcessing and quality differ--
-entials.  For non-tradeable ,ervices such as handling,
processing and transportatioln, a standard conversion
factor of 0.85 has been applied to reflect the prevailing
regime of import taxes and qiotas. To reflect the pre-
vailing unemployment and underemployment in the project
areas, the farm labor requirements are valued at a sea-
sonally adjusted wage rate virying from 40-80% of the
peak market rate. The price assumptions are summarized
in Annex 3, Table 5.



- 57 -
(b) Investment Costs. All investment costs except price con-
tingencies (Rs 81.9 M) and agricultural credit (base cost
Rs 106.6 M) are included in the economic analysis. Also
included in the analysis are about Rs 56 M of post-project
expenditures for completion of coconut development works
started under the project as well as Rs 12 M for imputed
cost of family labor used in coconut development works.
On this basis, the project investments are estimated at
Rs 345 M of which Rs 115 M would be in foreign exchange.
Adjusting the local cost component with a standard conver-
sion factor of 0.85, the project investments are estimated
at Rs 310 M.
(c)  Benefits.  The direct project benefits would be increased
procuction of paddy, coconut, coFfee, cocoa, pepper and
subsidiary food crops as well as improved living conditions
due to investments in social inf^astructure. No attempt has
been made to put an economic value on project-induced improve-
ment in living conditions. Also, for simplicity and to be
conservative, the analysis has been based only on incremental
production of paddy and cocconut :Annex 3, Tables 1-2), valued
respectively at Rs 156 M and Rs L70 M per annum at full devel-
opment.
(d)  Crop Production Costs.  Estimated present and projected input
usage rates for paddy and coconu:: are shown in Annex 3, Tables
3-4. Aggregate incremental production costs, detailed in
Annex 3, Table 7, are estimated .it Rs 62 M and Rs 39 M per
annum for paddy and coconut, respectively.
(e) O&M Costs. The incremental O&M costs during the project imple-
mentation are included in the inrestment costs. Subsequent
annual O&M costs for project works and services are estimated
at Rs 4.7 M 1/ (Rs 4 M in econom:c terms) and have been
included separately in the analysis.
(f)  Phasing of the Benefits.  Projecil implementation would be
phased over five years. However much of the supporting
infrastructure for agricultural :ntensification would be in
place within two years of the project start. Accordingly,
it is expected that project bene:Tits are expected to develop
rapidly, particularly for paddy. Full development is ex-
pected two years after project itiplementation, in case of
paddy. Due to the expected seven year lag before new coconut
plantings mature, full deve:Lopment of coconut-related bene-
fits would be only in year 13 of the project. Considering
these, the time phasing of benefits is estimated to be as
follows:
1/   Rs 1.8 M for irrigation works, Rs 1.4 for agricultural extension, Rs 1.3
for coconut development services and Rs 0.2 M for rural roads.



- 58 -
Table 7.1:  PHASING OF BENEFITS
Year      1  2   3   4   5   6   7   8    9   10   11    12  13-30
------------(% of full development benefits)------------
Paddy    0  5  10  25  45  65  85  100  100  100  100   100   100
Coconut  0  0   5  10  25  40  55   70   80   85   90    95   100
Conservatively, production inputs are assumed to precede pro-
duction benefits by one year in case of paddy and two years
in case of coconut.
7.09      The estimated costs and benefits streams for the project are shown
in Annex 3, Table 8.  The economic rate of return is estimated to be 32%.
Analysis of separate project components e.g. irrigation and water management,
coconut re'planting/underplanting, coconut intercropping indicates returns
of 25-50% depending upon assumptions regarding allocations of various costs
and benefits.
Sensitivity and Risks
7.10       Sensitivity tests indicate that the project remains viable under a
variety of adverse assumptions about c3sts and benefits. Results from some
of the important tests are given below:
Table 7.2: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Alternative                            Rate of Return (%)
(a)  basic case                                               32
(b)  basic case but excluding inv,zstments
in social infrastructure /l                           34
(c)  two year delay in realizaticn of full
project benefits                                      28
(d)  20% increase in investment costs                         29
(e)  20% decrease in incremental p)addy
production                                            28
(f)  20% decrease in incremental coconut
production                                            29
(g)  20% increase in paddy production costs                   30
(h)  20% increase in coconut production costs                 31
(i)  (e) + (f)                                                24
(j)  (g) + (h)                                                29
(k)  (e) + (f) + (g) + (h)                                    21
(1)  (d) + (e) + (f) + (g) + (h)                              19
(m)  standard conversion factor = 1.0                         30
(n)  standard conversion factor = 0.70                        33
(o)  all farm labor valued at full market
wage rate                                             29
/a   This would reduce project inwestments (in economic terms) from
Rs 310 M to Rs 260 M, i.e. b- about 16%.



- 59 -
7.11      Given the complexity of the project and the difficulties asso,iated
with actions in politically sensitive and institutionally demanding areas,
such as irrigation water management and rural credit discipline, it wouLd
be unrealistic to expect a problem-free implementation. An inherent risk in
multisectoral projects such as this concerns the ability to achieve necessary
coordination in implementing the various interrelated components.  It is hoped
that the newly established District Minister set-up, as well as the detailed
preparatory work undertaken to define functions and responsibilities of the
various implementing agencies, would keep such problems to a minimum. As a
further safeguard, the project organization has been designed with a view to
provide quick feedback and with a capability for early resolution of imple-
mentation bottlenecks, at the highest levels, if necessary.
7.12      On tae technical side, the most Eerious risk concerns successfu]L
adoption of intercropping practices by coconut smallholders who have not
had much experience with these so far. The availability of field-testel
technical packages for extension work is also limited at this stage. The
project has been designed with these constraints in mind and the intercropping
program has been kept very modest. It is hoped that the limited approach
under the project would open the prospects of successful replication on a
large scale after the project. However, even if the component were not to
sucu-(l, the project would remain viable.
7.13      Finally, the project faces some risk due to shortage of professional
and technical staff of various kinds, particularly design and construction
engineers. During the past few years there has been a large scale emigration
of such staff to Africa and the Middle East.. Additionally, domestic require-
ments have increased dramatically because of programs such as the Mahaweli
development. The Government is keenly aware of the problem and is trying to
solve it through more attractive salaries and incentives as well as accelerated
training programs. As the project requirements of technical personnel are
rather small in relation to the overall domestic demand and availability and
as the Government attaches a very high priority to this project, no major
problem is foreseen in satisfying the project needs. Also, higher than normal
outside technical assistance has been included under the project to overcome
the more serious bottlenecks.
Project Replicability
7.14      The project would be eminently suitable for replication in most
other districts of Sri Lanka. Financially, the project represents an invest-
ment of about US$110 1/ per farm family spi-ead over a five year period. Ex-
tension of the project to the estimated 2 M farm families in Sri Lanka would
represent an investment of about US$220 M4 (in 1979 prices) -- a rather sub-
stantial sum, but well within the means of Sri Lanka, particularly in view
of the expressed interest of several cother aid agencies to finance such
projects.  Administratively, the project is designed to work through existing
institutions and organizations rather than to bypass them by creating AttU-
l)- 'Iew boards or project authorities.  Accordingly, the administrative
structure could be rapidly mobilized in other districts of Sri Lanka. Finally,
paddy and coconut, the focus of the proposed project, are two crops importt.1'i;
1/   Excluding agricultural credit ancl price contingencies.



- 60 -
in practically all districts of Sri Lanka and therefore the proposed invest-
ment package could be quickly adapted to the needs and potential of other
districts. Thus, the project experience would be applicable on a country-wide
basis and successful project implementation would open up the prospects of
accelerated rural development on a large scale.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that:
(a)  selection of village irrigation schemes for rehabilitation
under the project would be in accordance with criteria
agreed upon by IDA (para 3.10);
(b)  organizational set-up and the work program for the agri-
cultural extension service in the district would be
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.23);
(c)  agricultural credit operations under the project including
the procedures for prosecution of defaulters would be
in accordance with rules, regulations and procedures satis-
factory to IDA. Also, separate subsidiary agreements,
satisfactory to IDA, would be executed between GOSL and
the People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon (para 3.30);
(d)  all agencies involved in project implementation would pre-
pare and maintain separate accounts for the project in
accordance with sound accounting practices. Such accounlts,
together with disbursement documents, would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The
Project Director (para 5.04) would consolidate the accouints
from the various agencies and submit to IDA certified copies
of the audited accounts together with the auditor's reports
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit
report would include, inter alia, a statement verifying l:hat
funds disbursed by IDA against statements of expenditure;
had been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
The project accounts on agricultural credit would continue
to be audited for five years after the end of project
implementation (para 4.11);
(e)  the Project Coordination Committee and the Project Steering
Committee would continue to function with membership and
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. Assurances have
also been obtained that the Government would continue to
employ a Project Director with experience, qualifications,
and functions and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA
(para 5.09);



- 61 -
(f) by October 31 of each year, IDA would receive, for comments,
the detailed work program under the project for the fol-
lowing calendar year (para 5.12);
(g) quarterly progress reports would be submitted to IDA within
one month of the end of the quarter under review. Also,
annual progress reports would be sent to IDA by March 31
of the following year (para 5.13);
(h) by December 31, 1979, IDA would receive for review and
comments a detailed plan for project evaluation (para
5.14);
(i) suitably qualified consultants would be hired for assistance
in project implementation in accordance with time tables,
and on terms and conditions, satisfactory to IDA (para 5.15);
(j)  (i) all major irrigation works, loads and buildings con-
structed and rehabilitated under the project would be main-
tained in accordance with sound engineering practices and
that adequate staff and funds would be provided for this
purpose; (ii) institutional arrargements for O&M of village
irrigation schemes and field channels in major tank schemes
would be satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) annual budgetary
allocations for the various implementing agencies would be
suitably increased to provide for project related recurrent
expenditures (para 5.21); and
(k)  the Government would maintain mutually agreed cost recovery
levels for the project and that in order to promote maximum
recovery consistent with adequate incentives to project area
farmers and its distributive objectives, it would, from time
to time, review and discuss with IDA the various cost recovery
policies (para 6.13).
8.02      A condition of credit effectiveness would be that GOSL would have
executed separate subsidiary agreements, satisfactory to IDA, with the
People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon regarding agricultural credit operations
under the project (para 3.30).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$20.0 million on standard IDA terms. The
Borrower would be the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
March 8, 1979



ANNEX 1
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area Details
Table 1                     Climatic data
Table 2                  :  3jor Irrigation Schemes: Hydrological Data
Table 3(a)-3(b)          : C-op Water Requirements
Table 4                     Trends in Paddy Areas, Yields and Production
Table 5                     Trends in Areas and Production of
Subsidiary Food Crops
Table 6                     Status of Agricultural Lending in the
Project Area
62



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Climatic Data
Jan.    Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May    June   July   Aug.   Sep.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.  Annual
Mean Monthly Rainfall -  (in)
Kurunegala 2/                     3.86    2.35   6.70  10.36   7.74   6.43   4.40   4.53   4.30  12.99  11.08   6.75   81.49
Wariyapola 3/*                    3.72    1.81   6.25   9.28   7.10   4.06   2.55   3.09   3.64  12.08  10.74   6.79   71.11
Maha-Illuppalama 4/               5.54    1.91   4.64   7.24   4.18   1.33   1.43   1.61   3.05   9.46   9.96   8.06   58.45
Mean Monthly Temperature (F)
Kurunegala  2/         .Max.    86.5    89.9   97.8   91.1   89.1   86.5   86.3   86.8   87.8   86.8   85.6   85.6    88.3
Min.    69.8    69.6   72.0   74.6   76.1   75.7   75.2   75.0   74.5   73.3   71.8   70.8    73.2
Maha-Illuppalama 4/   Max.    84.0    87.9   92.2   91.9   90.1   89.4   89.9   90.9   92.0   89.3   85.6   83.8    88.9
Min.    69.0    68.3   70.5   73.7   75.8   76.0   75.0   75.1   74.9   73.2   71.0   69.8    72.7
Anuradhapura 4/         Max.    83.5    87.2   91.7   91.9   90.9   90.0   90.9   91.4   92.2   89.3   85.8   83.3    89.0
Min     69.2    69.3   71.5   74.4   76.3   76.4   75.8   75.5   75.2   73.6   71.5   70.3    73.2
Average Humidity (%)
Kurunegala 2i                    74.0    70.0   69.5   77.0   76.0   78.0   76.5   75.5   75.0   79.0   80.5   78.5    76.0
Maha-Illuppallama 4/            83.0    73.0   64.0   79.0   76.0   74.0   73.0   72.0   76.0   67.0   82.0   89.0    75.7
Anuradhaputa 4/                  77.0    70.0   65.0   70.0   71.0   67.0   64.0   64.0   62.0   72.0   79.0   80.0    70.0
Sunshine Hours
Batalagoda 2/                     9.1     8.5   10.4    76 C      7.1    o.r    6.4    4.8    6.3    2.3    7.4   10.0    7.4
Maha-Illuppallama 4/              9.7     2.2   11.0    9.0    9.9   10.1   10.4   10.7    7.5    6.7    9.3    8.0    8.7
Anurtadhapura 4/                  7.0     7.8    8.3    8.4    7.9    7.9    7.7    7.4    7.8    6.4    6.2    5.9    7.4
1/ Based on 30 years data (1931-1'-60).            3/ Semi-dry zone,
2/ Semi-wet zone.                                  4/ Dry zone.
* Other data except rainfall, not available.
ol



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Major Irrigation Schemes: Hydrological Data
a      a
a                                  a          i 
:     < E co          :                    co                     C         hX 
1-4       a.na ao.-4                                      S-4                  a          ao
:5       .-              c                    .0         -4                      co-a
w ; X e             3                     Cd         i 10       00        " 14       -4 >
Item                  Unit                              a                                s          a         5 - C  c  t 0    4 0  a
Tank Capacity at F.S.L.    ac ft  5,578         20,800      19,000      2,475      5,900      4,840      7,556      4,800      7,000
Tank surface area            ac        590       1,875         825        337        660        605        730        540        780
Catchment Area Tank          Sq mi   38.0        71.25       24.65      11.0        66.0       5.00       21.0       16.0        7.0
Catchment Area Anicut        Sq mi       -           -           -         -           -     80.00       530.0          -          -
Irrigated Area (R) 1/        Ac      1,457       1,600      4,141         947        840     7,600      4,467       1,024      2,145
Irrigated Area (A) 2/        ac      1,820       2,000       5,176      1,184      1,050     9,500      5,584       1,280     2,682
Head on Outlet at F.S.L.   ft        19.00       21.00       27.00      14.00      15.50      12.91      17.90      17.00      24.00
Sluices (L.B) 3/           No./cfs  1/6.9    1/20.25         1/190    1/14.7      1/86    1/2896.5    2/33          1/86       1/10
capacity
Sluices (R.B) 4/           No./cfs  1/32.0   1/75.00         1/190        --      2/20                  2/147.8   1/10         1/91
capacity
Spillway capacity (L.B)    cfs    1,350            906         ---        855    18,425       1,090     5,453          -       1,730
Spillway capacity (R.B)    cfs    7,777         11,083       7,446      1,462         --     1,635       1,056     2,950          --
Bund Length                  ft      2,600       4,700       2,900     5,200      5,500      4,400       5,463      2,420     4,100
Bund Height                  ft         15          30          40.5       20         21.5       19.34      24         27         27
1/ Irrigated areas as r.cc.r&z.
21   Actual Irrigated area based on encroachments @ about 25% of area.
3/ Left Bank
4/  Right Bank
o 
-PI



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGAIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IrriRation and Water ManaRement
1/                  2/
Crop Water Reqyi$iements per acre (Without Project) by a2pth aod Period (in)
M A H A                                                                               Y A L A
SePt.    Oct.        Nov.        Dec.         Jan.        Feb.        Mar.      Total      Apr.        May          June        July         AuR.    Sea.   Total   Grand
2nd   1st   2nd   1st  2nd   lst  2nd   1st   2nd   1st  2nd   lst  2nd   (Maha)  1st   2nd   lst   2nd   1st  2nd   1st   2nd   lst   2nd   lst    (Yala)  Total
Evaporation               3.80  3.20  3.00  2.20  2.10  2.20  2.30  2.30  2.40  2.40  2.60  3.00  3.20  34.70   3.00  2.90  3.10  3.10  3.40  3.50  3.70  3.80  3.80  3.80  3.70   37.80   n.so
Crop Factor (No.)         0.00  0.21  0.43  0.66  0.89  1.12  1.14  1.14  1.11  1.08  0.85  0.62  0.40            0.20  0.21  0.44  0.67  0.89  1.13  1.14  1.11  0.88  0.65  0.42
Consumption Use           0.00  0.67  1.29  1.46  1.87  2.47  2.63  2.62  2.67  2.60  2.21  1.86  1.28  23.63   0.60  0.61  1.37  2.08  3.03  3.96  4.22  4.22  3.35  2.47  1.56   27.47   51.10
Land Preparation          1.00  1.50  1.50  1.50  1.50  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   7.00   1.00  1.50  1.50  1.50  1.50  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    7.00   14.00
Farm Losses               0.50  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  1.75  1.25  1.00  24.75   2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  1.75  1.25   23.25   48.00
Field Water Requirements  1.50  4.42  5.04  5.21  5.62  4.72  4.88  4.87  4.92  4.85  3.96  3.11  2.28  55.38   3.85  4.36  5.12  5.83  6.78  6.21  6.47  6.47  5.60  4.22  2.81   57.72  113.10
Dry Zone
Effective Rainfall        0.82  2.70  2.82  2.90  2.98  2.90  2.80  1.50  1.38  0.60  0.66  1.14  1.20  24.40   2.24  2.20  1.20  1.14  0.16  0.14  0.35  0.37  0.50  0.58  0.80    9.68   34.08
Requirements            0.68  1.72  2.22  2.31  2.64  1.82  2.08  3.37  3.54  4.25  3.30  1.97  1.08  30.98   1.61  2.16  3.92  4.69  6.62  6.07  6.12  6.10  5.10  3.64  2.01   48.04   79.02
Tank Release with 457.
Conveyance Losses 4/    1.23  3.13  4.03  4.20  4.80  3.31  3.79  6.13  6.44  7.73  6.00  3.58  1.96  56.33   2.93  3.93  7.13  8.52 12.03 11.04 11.13 11.09  9.27  6.62  3.65   87.34  143.67
Semi Wet Zone
3/
Effective Rainfall        1.38  3.82  3.96  3.30  3.35  2.05  2.00  1.22  1.10  0.70  0.71  2.00  2.02  27.61   3.14  3.08  2.35  2.30  1.96  1.90  1.34  1.30  1.42  1.30  1.20   21.29   48.90
Field Irri-
gation Requirements     0.12  0.60  1.08  1.91  2.27  2.67  2.88  3.65  3.82  4.15  3.25  1.11  0.26  27.77   0.71  1.28  2.77  3.53  4.82  4.31  5.13  5.17  4.18  2.92  1.61   36.43   64.20
Tank Release with 457
Conveyance Losses 4/    0,22  1.10  1.96  3.47  4.12  4.84  5.26  6.64  6.94  7.55  5.90  2.02  0.47  50.49   1.29  2.33  5.04  6.42  8.76  7.84  9.33  9.4   7.60  5.30  2.93   66.24  116.73
1/  With (a) Maha cultivation from October to March and 5 sowing periods staggering.
(b) Yala cultivation from April to September and 5 sowing periods staggering.
(c) 44t months (135 days) paddy variety for Maha and 34 months (105 days) for Yala.
2/ With two periods for each month.
3/  60 percent of mean rainfall (Anuradhapura Station for Dry Zone and Kurunegala for Semi Wet Zone).
4/ Conveyance and distribution losses assumed 457. (losses through existing tanks, canals and distribution system and losses d- t-
0,



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGAIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation and Water Management
1/                  2/
Crop Water Requirements per acre (With Project) by Month and Period  (in)
M A HA                                                                            Y AL A
Aug.     Sept.        Oct.        Nov.         Dec.        Jan.      Feb.   Total    ei_.  ar4E1F        Aporii         Y           June         July     Aug.   Total    Grand
2nd   1st   2nd   1st   2nd   1st   2nd   1st   2nd   1st   2nd   lst        wia   2nd   lstt 2nd   1st   2nd   Ist   2nd   Ist   2nd   1st   2nd   Ist    (Yala)   Total
Evaporation                3.80  3.70  3.80  3.20  3.00  2.20  2.10  2.20  2.30  2.30  2.40  2.40   33.40   2.60  3.00  3.20  3.00  2.90  3.10  3.10  3.40  3.50  3.70  3.80  3.80   39.10    72.50
Crop Factor (No.)          0.00  0.35  0.71  1.09  1.13  1.15  1.15  1.12  1.08  1.03  0.67  0.33              0.00  0.35  0.75  1.11  1.14  1.15  1.10  1.05  0.70  0.33  0.00  0.00
Consumptive Use            0.00  1.30  2.70  3.49  3.39  2.53  2.42  2.46  2.48  2.37  1.61  0.79   25.54   0.00  1.05  2.34  3.33  3.31  3.57  3.41  3.57  2.45  1.22  0.00  0.00   24.25    49,79
Land Preparation           2.00  3.00  2.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    7.00   2.00  3.00  2.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    7.00    14.oo
Farm Losses                0.00  1.25  1.75  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  1.75  1.25  1.00   20.50   0.00  1.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  1.75  1.00  0.00  0.00   17.50    38.00
Field Water Requirements  2.00  5.55  6.45  5.74  5.64  4.78  4.67  4.71  4.73  4.12  2.86  1.79   53.04   2.00  5.30  6.59  5.58  5.56  5.82  5.66  5.82  4.20  2.22  0.00  0.00   48.75   101.79
Dry Zone
Effective Rainfall         0.58  0.80  0.82  2.70  2.82  2.90  2.98  2.90  2.80  1.50  1.38  0.60   22.78   0.66  1.14  1.20  2.24  2.20  1.20  1.14  0.16  0.14  0.35  0.37  0.50   11.30    34.08
Field Irriga-
E z . . _ w    C s   C I i; 6  1.42  4.75  5.63  3.04  2.82  1.88  ..so  i.oi  i.93  2.62  1.48  1.19   30.26   1.34  4.16  5.39  3.34  3.36  4.62  4.52  5.66  4.06  1.87  0.00  0.00   38.32    68.58
Tank Release with 30%
Conveyance Losses 4/    2.03  6.78  8.04  4.34  4.03  2.68  2.42  2.59  2.77  3.74  2.12  1.70   43.24   1.92  5.94  7.70  4.77  4.80  6.60  6.46  8.08  5.80  2.67  0.00  0.00   54.74    97.98
Semi Wet Zone
Effective Rainfall         1.30  1.20  1.38  3.82  3.96  3.30  3.35  2.05  2.00  1.22  1.10  0.70   25.38   0.71  2.00  2.02  3.14  3.08  2.35  2.30  1.96, 1.90  1.34  1.30  1.42   23.52    48.90
Field Irriga-
tion Requirements       0.70  4.35  5.07  1.92  1.68  1.48  1.32  2.66  2.73  2.90  1.76  1.09   27.66   1.29  3.30  4.57  2.44  2.48  3.47  3.36  3.86  2.30  0.88  0.00  0.00   27.95    55.61
Tank Release with 30%
Conveyance Losses 4/    1.00  6.22  7.24  2.74  2.40  2.12  1.88  3.81  3.91  4.14  2.52  1.56   39.54   1.84  4.71  6.53  3.48  3.54  4.96  4.80  5.51  3.28  1.26  0.00  0.00   39.91    79.45
1/ With (a) Maha cultivation from September to February and 3 sowing periods staggering only.
(b) Yala cultivation from March to August and 3 sowing periods staggering only.
(c) 44 months (135 days) paddy variety for Maha and 34 months (105 days) for Yala.
2/ With two periods for each month.
3/  60 percent of mean rainfall (Anuradhapura Station for Dry Zone and Kurunegala for Semi Wet Zone).                                                                                                   E
4/ Conveyance losses assumed 307 (after rehabilitation of canal, distribution system and introduction of water management).                                                                           SM
,,



SRI IANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Trends in Paddy Areas. Yields and Production
Item                         1960                              1965                              1970                              1975                            1976                             1977
Major  Minor  Rain-  Total    Major  Minor  Rain-  Total    Major  Minor  Rain-  Total    Major  Minor  Rain-  Tota-l    Major Minor  Rain-  Total    Major  Miaor  Rain-  Total
fed                              fed                              fed                              fed                             fed                               fed
Asweddumized Area          16    60       70     146       19      22      69     150       21      68      71      160      22      69      74      165        22    70    75       167       23      72      75      170
('000 ac)
Gross Sown Area
('000 ac)
Maha                     15    53      69      137       18      53     67      138       21      60     70      151       12      36      65      113        16    45    67       128       21      64      70      155
Yala                      8    10      24       42       iz     20      Z4       56       17      36     41       94       12      27     52       91          9    25    31        65       16      40     59       115
Total               23    63       93      179      30      73      91      194      38      96    111       245       24     63    117       204        25    70    98       193       37   T17.    129        270
Gross Harvested Area
('000 ac)
Maha                     15    50      64      129       18     45      59      122       21      60     69      150       11      21     46        78        15    40    64       119       21      61     65      149
Yala                      8    10      23       41       11      15     20       46       17      34     40       91       11      24     50       85          8     7      8       23       16      39     57       112
Total               23    60       87      170      29      60      79      1688      8      94    109       241      22      45      96      163        23    47    72       142       37    100    122        261
Yield (Bushels/ac)
Maha                                           31.5                             29.5                             48.5      64.0   26.5   39.0   39.0         67.0  40.0  44.0    45.5   61.5   51.0   47.0   50.5
Yala                     NA    NA      NA      34.5      HA     HA      NA      31.0      HA      NA     NA      42.5      51.0   32.0   40.0   38.0         41.0  34.0  27.0    32.0   52.5   38.5   41.0   42.0
Total                                      32.5                             30.0                             46.5      59.0   31.5   390   39.0          61.5  40.0  42.5    44.5   60.5   46.0   4.5 4
Production (M Bushels)
Maha                     NA    NA      HA       3.5      HA      KA     NA       3.1      NA     NA      NA       6.2       0.6    0.5    1.5    2.6           0.9   1.4   2.4       4.7      1.1   2.6    2.5    6.2
Yala                                            1.2                              1.2                              3.3       0.5    0.7    1.7    2.8           0.3   0.2   0.2       0.7      0.8   1.3    2.0    4.1
Total                                       4.7                              4.3                              9.5       1.1    1.2    3.2    5.4          1.2   1.6   2.6        5.4      1.9   3.9    4.5   10.3
NHA.: Not available.
1/ Source: Department of Census and Statistics.
2/ On net harvested area basis.



ANNEX 1
Table 5
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trends in Areas and Production of
Subsidiary Crops 1/
Cropped Area 2/                  Total Production
('000 ac)                        ('000 tons)
Item                       1973    1974    1975    1976        1973   1974    1975    1976
Cereals 3/                  19.5    25.0    26.0    20.5        2.5     3.5      4.0      3.5
Pulses 4/                    9.5    11.0    12.0    13.0        1.5      1.5     1.5      2.0
Oilseeds J/                 13.0    18.5    16.0    16.0        1.5     2.0      1.5      2.0
Root Crops 6/               72.5    94.0   110.0    47.0    75.5   156.0   300.5   165.0
Other Crops 7/              16.0    21.0    23.0    20.0        7.5     7.0    15.0    10.0
Vegetables /                21.0    19.5    24.5    25.5        8.5      9.5    12.5    13.5
Commercial Crops q/         20.0    22.5    18.5    18.5    13.5    33.0    38.5    22.0
Fruits 10/                  32.0    34.0    34.5    27.0   124        125      140      101
1/ Source: District Statistical Officer, Kurunegala.  Area and Production
figures subject to large errors and hence should be treated as indicative only.
2/ Total of Maha and Yala crops. The acreages for various crops are not
additive because of widespread mixed cropping in chena cultivation.
3/ Mostly kurakkan, maize and sorghum.
4/ Mostly green grams and cowpeas.
51 Mostly gingelly (sesamum).
6/ Mostly manioc, and sweet potatoes.
7/ Mostly chilltes and onions.
8/ Mostly ash plantains, pumpkins and brinjals.
9/ Mostly arecanut, cocoa, coffee, pepper and spices.
10/ Mostly jak fruit, limes, oranges, pineapple and mangoes. Production is in
million numbers.
68



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGELA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-       Status of Agricultural Len:ing in the Project Area /
2/                                                                     3
Peopie's Bank-                                                        Bank of Ceylon-
Overdues                                                              Overdues
Amount      Amount       No.        Amount    as % of                  Amount       Amount      No.         Amount   as X of
No. of     Disbursed   Recovered   of De-    Overdue   Disburse-  No. of           Disbursed   Recovered  of De-        Overdue Disburse-
Year   Borrowers  (Rs'000)    (Rs'000)    faulters  (Rs'000)  ments            Borrowers  (Rs'000)    (Rs'O00)   faulters   (Rs'000) ments
1968     NA          6705        5856          NA         849         13       -               -           -          -            -        -
1969     NA          2821        1962          NA         859         30        -              -           -          -            -        -
1970     NA          3322        1006          NA        2316         70       -               -           -          -            -        -
1971     NA           564         216          NA         348         62       -               -           -          -            -        -
1972     NA          1074         463          NA         611         57       -               -           -          -            -        -
1973    2105          958         486        1416         472         49       -               -           -          -            -        -
1974    7318         6823        4145        4208        2678         39        16             18           6         10           12       66
1975    1506         1074         603         '97         471         hh A                    ?9n                    200          344       44
1976     425          514         303         176         211         41     1539            1624        1152       616           472       29
1977     605          451         112         351         339         75     1980            2230        1447        771          783       35
1978    3346         3394        1694          NA        1700         50     2963            3469        2286      1077          1183       34
1/ As of 12/31/78.
2/ Records prior to 1968 not readily available.
3/ No agricultural lending by Bank of Ceylon prior to 1974.
o'



ANNEX 2
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates, Schedule of Expenditures,
Equipment List and Procurement Schedules
List of Tables
Annex 2    Tables 1-2         Snmmary
Annex 2(a) Tables 1-3         I-rigation and Water Management
Annex 2(b) Tables 1-7      : Coconut Development
Annex 2(c) Tables 1-3      : Agricultural Extension
Annex 2(d) Tables 1-3      : Agricultural Input Supplies
Annex 2(e) Tables 1-4      : Agricultural Credit
Annex 2(f) Tables 1-2      : Livestock
Annex 2(g) Tables 1-2         Groundwater
Annex 2(h) Tables 1-3      : Rural Roads
Annex 2(i) Tables 1-2      : Rural Water Supply
Annex 2(j) Tables 1-3      : Rural Electrification
Annex 2(k) Tables 1-2      : Heialth
Annex 2(1) Tables 1-2      : Education
Annex 2(m) Tables 1-3      : Project Coordination and Investigations
70



ANNEX 2
Table 1
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Component-Wise Summary
Component                    Total         1979      1980      1981     1982      1983
-------------------(Rs M)-
Irrigation and Water
Management                  124.50      13.55    24.70    28.10    29.15    29.00
Coconut Development            81.75       7.40    11.60    14.50    19.95    28.30
Agricultural Extension         20.00        4.00     7.00      4.20      2.30     2.50
Agricultural Input
Supplies                    20.90        5.05      8.25      4.30     2.40      0.90
Agricultural Ciedit           118.05        9.55    22.70    26.70    29.35    29.75
Livestock                       3.10       1.55      1.05      0.35      0.15      -
Groundwatpr Exploration         9.65        3.15     5.20      1.30
Rural Roads                    17.00       3.95      5.00      2.60     2.60      2.85
Rural Water Supply             13.35       1.70      3.40      2.50     2.80      2.95
Rural Electrification          15.60        3.60     5.95      6.05      -         -
Health                          6.40        2.35     2.15      0.65     0.70      0.55
Education                      14.50       2.25      4.25      3.95     2.10      1.95
Project Coordination &
Inver :igations             20.220       6.05      8.40     3.35      1.15      1.25
' o r1'             465.0rl      64.15   109.65    98.55    92.65   100.00
71



ANNEX 2
Table 2
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Item-Wise Summary
Item                        Total      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
-----------------(Rs M)-------------- --
Civil Works                 100.50       9.35   23.25    28.50    20.95    18.45
Field Works                  35.45       1.45    3.15      6.40    10.20    14.25
Equipment & Vehicles          65.75     31.35   30.80       3,10     0.50      -
Crop Production Loans        62.00       1.65    8.50    12.45    17.50    21.90
Loans for Farm Equip.
& Vehicles                  44.60      6.10   12.10    11.60       9.10      5.70
Technical Assistance          10.45      2.05    4.20       3.40     0.50      0.30
Engineering &
Administration             42.90       6.20    9.60    10.00       8.70      8.40
Base Cost                   361.65      58.15   91.60    75.45    67.5    69.00
Physical Contingencies       21.45       2.95    5.50      4.90      4.05      4.05
Price Contingencies           81.90     3.05    12.55    18.20    21.15    26.95
Total             465.00    64.15   109.65    98.55    92.65   100.00
72



ANNEX 2(a)
Table 1
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RUFAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation and Water Management
Cost Estimates anl Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost               Total Annual Expenditures
Local  Foreign    Total    1979  1980  1981  1982  1983
-------------------  (Rs   M)    ----------------------------
I. Civil Works
Rehabilitation of major tanks 1/
including control structures
for water management              12.90    6.30      19.20    1.00  3.00  6.20  5.30   3.70
Rehabilitation of minor tanks       36.70    3.30      40.00    2.00  6.50 10.50 10.50  10.50
Lift Irrigation works                0.20    0.10       0.30    0.10  0.20  -       -     -
Sub-total                       49.a0    9.70       59.50    3.10  9.70 16.70 15.80  14.20
II. Equipment 2/
Construction equipment               0.90    9.90      10.80    4.40  6.40  -       -     --
Transport vehicles                   0.40    3.60       4.00    2.50  1.50  -       -     -
Other equiDment                      0.10    0.60       0.70    0.70  -      -            -
Sub-total                        1.40   14.10       15.50    7.60  7.90  -      -     -
III.  Technical Assistance
Overseas Study Tours                 -       0.20       0.20    -      0.10  0.10  -      -
In-Service TAs Training 3/           0.50    -          0.50    0.30  0.20  -
Sub-total                         0.50    0.20       0.70    0.30  0.30  0.10  -       _
IV.  Engineering & Administration 4/    8.70    1.00         9.70    1.10  1.60  2.40  2.40  2.20
V.  Base Cost                           60.40   25.00      85.40   12.10 19.50 19.20 18.20 16.40
VI.  Physical Contingencies 5/            7.00    2.70       9.70    0.80  2.00  2.40)  2.30  2.20
VII.  Price Contingencies 6/              26.10    3.30       29.40    0.65  3.20  6.50  8.65 10.40
VIII.  Total Cost 7/                       93.50   31.00    124.50   13.55 24.70 28.10 29.15 29.00
I/  See Table 3 for details.
2/ See Table 2 for details.
3/ Departmental trainiag of Technical Assistants.
4/ Fifteen percent of I. In addition includes Rs 0.70 M for undertaking hydrological studies.
5/ Fifteen percent of I and five percent of II.
61 Assuming following price escalation f,actors:  1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Foreign Costs                1.03   1.07   1.16   1.23   1.30
Local Costs                 1.0R   1.21   1.33   1.46   1.61
7/  Includes about Rs.3,3 M in taxes and duties.
73



SRI LANKA                              Table  2
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation and Water Management
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
CIF/Ex-factory                 Procurement Schedulel/
Quan- Unit Total Method of
Item                     tity  Cost  Cost   Procurement  a    b          c      d      e     f
(US$000)-                                       _
Construction Equipment
1.  Crawler tractor (100 h.p.)       1   45.9   45.90        ICB   12/78  3/79  6/79  7/79  9/79  2/80
2.  Tractors (4-Wheel)              10    8.3   83.00        ICB      "      "     "      "      "    1/80
3. Dragline (3/4 c.y.) with
shovel attachment                1   65.0   65.00       ICB                "                "    2/80
4.  Air compressors                   2    9.0   18.00       ICB             "         "         "    1/80
5.  Generators                        7    1.0    7.00       ICB                                     12/79
6.  Sludge pumps                    15    2.1   31.50        ICB   12/78  3/79  6/79  7/79  9/79 12/79
7.  Water pumps (4")                25    1.5   37.50        ICB      "      "     "      'A   .1
8. Trailer mounted pumps (6")
complete with delivery
and suction piping              20    3.5   70.00       ICB      "      "      "      " i t
9. Trailer mounted pumps (12")
complete with delivery and
suction piping                   2    5.5   11.00       ICB      "      "      "     "      "    1/80
10. Concrete vibrators              10    0.6    6.00        ICB      "      "     "      "      "
11. Spare Parts 20% (1 to 10)   lot   70.0   70.00           ICB             "     "             "    2/80
12. Trailer for tractors            20    2.0   40.002/   ICB         " C B                      "   12/79
13. Concrete mixers                   8    2.7   21.60       ICB   12/78  3/79  6/79  7/79  9/79 
14. Vibrating rollers                5    8.5   42.50        ICB      "      "     "      "      "    1/80
15. Vibrating tampers               10    1.0   10.00        ICB      "     "      "
16. Jack hammer                       4    0.9    3.60       ICB      "     I      "      .     "   10/79
17. Mobile workshop unit              1   20.0   20.00       ICB   12/79  3/79  6/79  7/79  9/79  1/80
18. Truck mounted service unit4L   1   65.0   65.00          ICB      "     "      "      "     "
19. Workshop equipment & tools 3/LS    -           8.00      PS                   _                  12/79
Sub-total                       655.60
Transport Vehicles
1. Jeeps (w-wheel Drive)           16    7.1  113.c0        ICB   12/78  2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79 11/79
2. Trucks (5-Ton                    5   12.2   61.00        ICB    "  "           "      "     "      "
3. Station Wagon                    1   10.7   10.70        ICB    "       "      "
4. Motor Cycles                    40    1.0   40.00        PS      -      -      -      -     -   10/79
5. Bicycles                        50    0.1    5.00 2/  PS        -       -      -     -      -   12/79
Sub-total                       230.30
Office and Survey Equipment
1.  Survey equipment                LS    -       25.00      PS       -     -      _      _     -    10/79
2.  Office equipment                LS    -       10.00      PS      ^      -      -     -      -
3. Current meters & Gauges          LS    -      10.00      PS       -      -      -     -             "
Sub-total                       400
Total                          930.90
1/ a. Specifications and bid package to IDA.
b.  Invitation to bids.
c.  Opening of bids.
d.  Evaluation report to IDA.
e.  Award of contract.
f.  Delivery at site.
2/ Includes local component worth about $25,000,
3/ For servicing needs of the whole project and shall be used by Irrigation Department
after project completion.
74



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation and Water Management
Major Tanks Rehabilitation (Civil Works)
MAIN CANALS
Rock Excavation                  cu yd                   13.50        -          -          -          _           -                     _      9250            -        9,250
Desilting                         ,,4.60    777                             4,207       6,000        962      1,335   2o4,000   101,615         2,482      4,445       325,823
Embankment Repair/V,,                                      4,10  1,517         750          -    11,100       1,485           -    13,388    11,805         5,075       45,120
Wall Concrete/Lining              ,.255,00                           39          _           _         4                    193      1,980          24        424        2,664
Wall MasonrY"                                           118.00    363            -          _           _          _      1,832      1,184           -          -        3,379
Roadway Gravelling                 "9.20                              -     3,700       9,730      1,906      1,185       1,480     15,866      2,408       3,145       39,420
M4etalling                       mi                 105,000,00        -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -          6.5           65
Turn outs
Screw Type Gates 4"                                 1,200.00       1           1          1          9         __           1         21           _2                     36
6"'                             1,325,00        3          7          6         20           2          5         30           1          7            81
9ll                             1,535.00        2          4          8           3          2          2          24          8          4            57
12"                              1, 640. U0      1          4          4           5         5           1           8          3          8            34
15"                              2, 690.00       -          2           5          -          I          _          IO          _                       18
18"                              3,740.00        -          -          2           --               -                4          3          4            13
24Ri                             5,525.00        1          4           -                     -           -          I          -           -            6
D-Gates                                4,000.00- 420,000.00        -          -           -          -          5         22           6          1           1           35
Regulators                                           12,000.00       3           8          7          6           _         23         12           -          7           66
Regulator-cuR-Bridge                                23,000.00         -          I          -          3      1               -    1            1,0             6            10
Walna-e Outlet Structi   re                        25,000.00        3           5          6          5           2         18         10           2          7            58
Culverts                                 11,500.00-23,000.00          -          8          -          -           -      1          1               -          2 -      3,37
Foot  Bridge                                          1,150.00        1     3          9           1,906                                                        2 18          3
Trough                                              23,000.00         1          -          _          -           -          -          -           -                        I
Silt rTraps                                           7,500.00        1          1          _          9           _         10         15           -          2            25
DISTRIBUTARIES AND BRANCHES
Desilting                        cu yd                    4.60    555       3,245           -                           12,025       2,942        963         593       20,323
Embankment  Repair                                         4.10    962           -    18,654                                  -      5,323           -          -       24,939
Roadway Gravelling                                        9.20    481            ----                                         -      3,886           -                   4,367
Turn Outs (S.T. Gates) 4"         No.                 1,200.00       4           -          5          -           -                    31           3          4            56
6"                          5 1,325.00      7         20         69          -           -          9          8           -         22           135
9"Ge    "                   1,535.00        6          2         31          -           5          2           5         12          8            66
12" R                        2,0640.00      6           3          8          6           -          3          1           4          1            26
15                           2,0690.00       -          I          -                                 -          -           -          6            10
18r      "                   3,740.00       -           -          I          -           -          -          -           -          2             3
24" o                        5,525.00        -          -          2                                 -           -          -          -             2
D-Gates                                      6,000-7,000.00        2           -          -                                31          9 -                                42
Concrete and masonry             cu yd                    9.20        -          -      2,448           -                     -           -          -          -        2,448
HEAD WORKS
Earthwork                        cu yd                    4.10        -     3               -    32,560            -    1            2          7,955         5         40,515
Riprap  Protection                "                      4.10        2           -          -        370      1,485           -      5               -        888        2,743
Anicut Gates                     No.         46,000-86,000.00         -          ---                               -                      3                                   3
Road Gravelling                  cu yd                    9.20        -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -        407           407
Cost - (Rs. Million)
(i)  Otehabilitation  Works     0N39                                             0.83       163        0.90       0.28        3.49       3.47        0.86       3.15        15
(ii) Cor.trol structures a-nd other works
for  Water Management                         0.20       1.00       0.80      0-30         0.85        0.40       0.30       015        0.20 48
Total Cost      0159                                                      1.83       2.43       1.20        1.13       3.89       1                                   19426
l/ Rates are net of capital cost of equipment.                                                                                             
ConFor Headworks.                C
MEA  WORK
Cos  -  R.Pilin



SRI LANKA                            Table 1
KDJRUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Development
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                 Total Annual Expenditures
Item                       Local  Foreign  Total       1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
--------(-______-_----QRs M)----_______________----
I.     Civil Works
Land Dev. and Bldgs. 1/
for Coconut Nurseries-    1.20    0.40    1.60          0.45  0.60   0.55    -         -
Land Dev. and Bldgs.
for Intercrop
Nurseries 2/                0.35    0.15    0.50        0.10  0.20   0.20    -         -
Land Dev. for Demons3V
Plots for Intercrops-       0.15    0.10    0.25         0.10  0.15    -        -      -
Bldg. for Dist. Office
of CCB                      0.20    0.10    0.30        0.15  0.15    -        -       -
Bldg. for Dist. Office
of DME                      0.15    0.05    0.20        0.10  0.10    -        -       -
ib-total            2.05    0.80    2.85         0.90  1.20   0.75    -        -
4/
II.    Field Works-
Rehabilitation Works       18.45    5.35   23.80         1.00  1.95   4.15   6.85   9.85
Tntercropping               9.60    2.05   11.65        0.45  1.20   2.25   3.35   4.40
Sub-total           28.05    7.40   35.45         1.45  3.15   6.40  10.20  14.25
Ill.   Equipment-5/
Equip. and Vehicles
for CCB                     1.40    2.80    4.20        2.20  2.00    -        -       -
Equip. and vehicles
for DME                     0.35    1.80    2.15        1.15  1.00    -        -       -
Sub-total            1.75    4.60    6.35         3.35  3.00    -        -      -
IV.    Technical Assistance
Overseas Study Tours-/       -       0.40    0.40         -    0.10   0.20   0.10    -
Consulting Services -/    0.05    0.30    0.35            -    0.15   0.20    -        -
Sub-total            0.05    0.70    0.75          -    0.25   0.40   0.10    -
V.     Engineering and Admin.'/
Incremental Recurrent
Expenditures (CCB)          5.50    2.20    7.70        0.60  1.20   1.95   1.95   2.00
Incremental Recurrent
Expenditures CDME)          3.00    1.25    4.25         0.30  0.65   1.10   1.10   1.10
Sub-total            8.50    3.45   11.95         0.90  1.85   3.05   3.05   3.10
VI.    Base Cost                   40.40   16.95   57.35        6.60  9.45  10.60  13.35  17.35
9,
VII.   Physical Contingencies-/  2.55    1.05    3.60           0.40  0.60   0.70   0.85   1.05
VIII.  Price Contingencies - /   17.90    2.90   20.80          0.40  1.55   3.20   5.75   9.90
IX.    Total Cost                  60.85   20.90   81.75        7.40 11.60  14.50  19.95  28.30
1/ 8 New nurseries at Rs 190,000 each and upgrading of 2 existing nurseries at Rs
40,000 each.
2/ 5 Nurseries at Rs 60,000 each.             10/ AsuminZg following price escalation factors:
3/ 50 Plots at Rs 5,000 each.
4/ See Tables 2 and 3 for details                                   1979  1980  1981  1982  1983
5/ See Tables 4 and 5 for details                Foreign Costs    1.03  1.07  1.lk  1.23  1.30
6/ Rs 0.20 M each for CCB and DME.                tocal Costs       1.08  1.21  1.33  1.46  1.61
7/ 3 man-months of specialist on cocoa
processing at US$7,500 per man-month  11/ Includes about Rs 1.4 N in taxes and duties.
8/ See Tables 6 and 7 for details
9/ 10% of I and V and 5% of II and III.
76



ANNEX 2(b)
Table 2
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Development
Field Works
Item                                        Total      1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
A. Area to be Improved (ac)
(i)    Replanting/underplanting-/    15,000          500   1,000  2,500  5,000  6,000
(ii)   Contour Drains                   20,000    2,000   3,000  5,000  5,000  5,000
(iii)  Removal of Excess Palms          40,000    3,000   7,000 10,000 10,000 10,000
B. Development Costs (Rs M)
(i)    Replanting/Underplanting 2/
Year 1 (Planting at                       3)
Rs 7Q0 per ac)                10.50(25)-3  0.35    0.70  1.75  3.50   4.20
Year 2 (Maintenance and
vacancy filling at
Rs 300 per ac)                 2.70(50)   -         0.15  0.30  0.75   1.50
Year 3 (Maintenance and
vacancy filling at
Rs 700 per ac)                 2.80(25)   -         -      0.35  0.70   1.75
Year 4 (Maintenance at
Rs 300 per ac)                 0.45(50)   -         -      -     0.15   0.30
Year 5 (Maintenance at
Rs 700 per ac) 4/ 5/           0.35(35)   -         -      -     -       0.35
Sub-total                   16.8O(36)   0.35    0.85  2.40  5.10   8.10
(ii)   Contour Drains 6/                 5.00(5)    0.50    0.75  1.25  1.25   1.25
(at Rs 250 per ac)
(iii) Removal of Excess Palms 7/
(at Rs 50 per ac)                2.00(5)    0.15    0.35  0.50  0.50   0.50
23.80(22)   1.00    1.95  4.15  6.85   9.85
1/ Incremental to current average replanting of 2,000 ac per annum.
2/  Excluding cost of family labor estimated at Rs 300, 100, 300, 100, 300, 100 and
100 respectively for Years 1 - 7.
3/  Figures in parenthesis are the estimated foreign exchange percentages.
4/ Costs of Rs 400 and Rs 600 would be incurred during years 6 and 7
respectively. Positive cash flow from Year 8 onwards.
5/ Completion of field works started under the project would require
a further investment of Rs 38.7 M after the project.
6/ Average of 10 chains per ac.
_/ Average of 3 palms per ac.
77



ANNEX 2(b)
Table 3
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Development
Field Works
Item                                  Total    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
A. Area to be Planted (ac)
(i) Cocoa                          2,000    100       200      400     600       700
CLi) Coffee                         3,000    200       400      600     800    1,000
(Ciil Pepper                         3,000    200       400      600     800    1.000
(iv) Other Cropae-                  2,000      -       200      400     600       800
Sub-total               10,000    500    1,2-"   7,nWn  29,800    3,500
B-. Development Costs 2/ 3/ (Re. M)
(i) Cocoa
Year 1 (Planting at
Rs 8O per ac)               1.60(10)-' 0.08   0.16    0.32       0.48    0.56
Year 2 (Maintenance)
at Rs 400 per ac)           0.52(30)   -       0.04    0.08      0.16    0.24
Year 3 (Maintenance
at Rs 456 per ac)           0.32(50)   -                0.05     0.09    0-18
Sub-total                 2.44(19)   0.08   0.20    0.45       0.73    0.98
(ii) Coffee
Year 1 (Planting at
Rs  900  per ac)           2.70(15)   0.18   0.36    0.54       0.72    0.90
Year 2 (Maintenance
at Rs 400 per ac)           0.80(30)   -       0.08    0.16      0.24    0.32
Year 3 (Maintenance
at Rs 350 per ac)           0.42(40)   -                0.07     0.14    0.21
Sub-total                 3.92(20)   0.18   0.44    0.77       1.10    1.43
(ivi) Pepper
Year 1 (Planting
at Rs 1,000 per ac)         3.00(10)   0.20   0.40    0.60       0.80    1.00
Year 2 (Maintenance
at Rs 350 per ac)           0.70(15)   -       0.07    0.14      0.21    0.28
Year 3 (Maintenance
at Rs 500 per ac)           0.60(25)            -       0.10     0.20    0.30
Sub-total                 4.30(13)   0.20   0.47    0.84       1.21    1.58
(iv) Other Crops
CRs 500 per ac)              1.00 (20)   -      0.10    0.20      0.30    0.40
Total                    11.66(17)   0.46   1.21    2.26       3.34    4.39
1/ e.g. Banana, pastures etc.
2/ Excluding cost of family labor estimated, on the average, to be as follows:
Year   Cocoa   Coffee   Pepper
1       300    400        500
2       150    200        200
3       100    150        400
3/ Positive cash flows from Year 4 onwards.
4/ Figures in parenthesis are the estimated foreign exchange percentages.
5/ Completion of field works started under the project would require a
further investment of Rs 3.14 M after the project.
78



ANNEX 2(b)
Table 4
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CQSgkut. Dvelpfkent
Equipmeq% List an[ Procurement Schedule (CCB)
CIF/
Ex-Factory   Method of                            1,
Unit  Total  Procu-         Procurement Schedule-
Item                       Quantity  Cost  Cost   rement        a      b     c      d      e     f
-(US$'000)-
Farm Equipment
4-Wheel Tractor with
Trailer and Implements    10        10.0   100.0   ICB       12/78  2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79  11/79
Water pump(2") and
Accessories                 10       2.0    20.0   ICB          "     "             .
Farm Implements              LS                7.0   Ps          -     -     -      -      -
Sub-total                             127.0
Transport Vehicles
Jeeps (4-Wheel Drive)         3       7.1    21.3   ICB       12/78  2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79  11/79
Trucks (5-Ton)                2      12.2    24.4   ICB
90cc Motorcycles             30       1.0    30.0   PS          -      -     -      _     _    12/79
Sub-total                            75.7
Other Equipment
Furniture for Nurseries    LS                  2.0             -       -     -      -     -    12/79
Furniture and Office
Equipment for Head
Office and Regional
Offices 2/                  I'S              10.0   PS               --   10/79
Equipment for Field
Staff 3/                    LS                3.0   PS         -      -        -         -   10/79
Sub-total                         15.0
Total                            217.7 4/
1/ a - Specifications & Bid package to IDA.
-   b - Invitation to Bids.
c - Opening of Bids.
d - Evaluation Report to IDA.
e - Award of Contract.
f - Delivery at Site.
2/  Includes 4 typewriters, 8 desk calculators, 4 pocket calculators,10 steel cabinets,
10 steel almirah and miscellaneous furniture.
3/ Includes 60 pocket levels and 60 measuring tapes.
4/ Includes goods of local origin worth about US$35,000.                                      79



ANNEX 2(b)
Table 5
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Development
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule (DME)
CIF/
Ex-Factory  Method of                           1,
Unit  Total Procu-        Procurement Schedule-
Item                      Quantity  Cost  Cost  rement       a      b     c      d     e      f
-(us$o000)-
Farm Equipment
Water Pumps (2") and
Accessories              10         2.0  20.G    !CB   12/78   2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79  11/79
Hand Sprayers              10         0.1   1.0    PS        -      -     -      -     -      "
Farm Implements            LS                4.0    PS      -       -     -      -     _
Sub-total                            25.0
Transport Vehicles
Trucks (3-Ton)               5       10.0  50.0    ICE  12/78  2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79  11/79
Passenger Car                1        6.0   6.0    ICB       "             If t I  1F   it
Jeeps (4-Wheel Drive)        2        7.1  14.2    ICB       "      "            'f     f 
Mini bus                     1       13.0  13.0    ICB       "      "      "                  it
90 cc Motorcycles          10         1.0  10.0   PS         -      -     -      _     -    12/79
Bicycles                   10         0.1   1.0    PS        -      -     -      -            "
Sub-total                           94.2
Other Equipment
Office Equipment i
Furniture                  LS                7.0    PS       -      -     _      _    -    10/79
Audio-visual Equipment    LS                 3.0    PS       -      -      -     _    -    10/79
Sub-total                            10.0
Total 2/                            129.2
1/ a - Specifications & Bid package to IDA.
b - Invitation to Bids.
c - Opening of Bids.
d - Evaluation Report to IDA.
e - Award of Contract.
f - Delivery at Site.
2/ Includes goods worth about US$15,(000 o  local origin.                                   80



ANNEX 2(b)
Table 6
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Development
Incremental Recurrent: Expenditures (CCB)
Average    Total
Item                                                          No.  Unit Cost  Annual Cost
A. Salaries & Benefits for Additional Staff                         -----(Rs.'000)-------
1. District Head Office
Assistant GM                                            1        16.0        16.0
Accountant                                              1        10.0        10.0
Nursery Officer                                         1        10.0        10.0
Staff Assistant                                         1        10.0       10.0
Coconut Dev. Officers                                   5         8.0        40.0
Technical kssistant                                     1         7.0         7.0
Clerk/Typi3ts                                          10         6.0        60.0
Roneo Oper3tors                                         2         5.0        10.0
Drivers                                                 4         5.0        20.0
Laborer                                                 2         3.0         6.0
2. Nurseries
Assistant gursery Officer                              10         7.0        70.0
Tractor Oparators                                      10         5.5        55.0
Watchers                                               10         5.0        50.0
Laborers                                               40         3.0      120.0
Casual LabDr                                           LS                  200.0
Sub-total                                                          684.0
B. Other Expenses
1. District Fead Office/Regional Offices
Fuels and Oils                                         LS                    20.0
Repairs ard Maintenance                                LS                    25.0
Field Visits/Travelling Allowances                     LS                   125.0
Publicity Materials                                    LS                   25.0
Stationery and Miscellaneous                           LS                   20.0
2. Nurseries
Seednuts                                               LS                1,000.0
Polythene Bags                                         LS                    40.0
Fuels and Oils                                         LS                   150.0
Repairs and Maintenance                                LS                   100.0
Fertilizers                                            LS                    25.0
Agro Chemicals                                         LS                    10.0
Travelling Allowances                                  LS                    50.0
Stationerv and Miscellaneious                          LS                    50.0
Sub-total                                                        1,640.0
Total Incremental Cost Per Annum                                          2,324.0
Less Revenues from Sale of Nurseries
(600,000 seedlings at Rs 0.50 each)                                     (300.0)
Transiort charges on seedlings.                                              50.0
Net Incremental Cost Per Annum                                            1,974.0
Total Incremental Cost during the Proec/                         7,698.6
or say Rs 7.70 14
1/ Assuming 30% and 60% expenditures during Ist and 2nd years and 100% expenditures in
each of the last three years.                                                              81



ANNEX 2(b)
Table 7
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Development
Incremental Recurrent Expenditures (DME)
Average    Total
Item                                                            No.   Unit Cost  Annual Cost
-----(Rs. '000)-------
A. Salaries & Benefits for Additional Staff
1. District Head Office
Field Operation Officer                                   1        13.0       13.0
Publicity Officer                                         1        10.0       10.0
Economist                                                 1        10.0       10.0
Clerk Typists                                             2         5.0       10.0
Drivers                                                   4         5.0       20.0
2. Nurseries
AIS                                                       5         6.0       30.0
KVSs                                                     10         5.0       50.0
KVSs                                      ~     ~ ~~~~        ~~~~~5 5.0  25.0
Drivers                                                   5         3.0       15.0
Cleaners                                                  530                 1.
Laborers                                                100         3.0      300.0
3. Demonstration Plots
AIs                                                       5         6.0        30.0
KVSs                                                     10         5.0       50.0
Sub-total                                                           563.0
B. Other Expenses
1. District Head Office
'\uel & Oils                                             LS                   20.0
Rtepairs & Maintenance                                   LS                    25.0
Field Visits/Travelling Allowances                       LS                   25.0
Publicity Materials                                      LS                   50.0
Stationery and Miscellaneous                             LS                   10.0
2. Nurseries
Plrimary Planting Material                               LS                  200.0
Cattle Manure Top Soil and sand (lorcy loads)           600        1.0        60.0
Fertilizers                                              LS                   10.0
I'olythene Bags (M)                                       1       100.0      100.0
Agro-chemicals                                           LS                    5.0
Oils and Fuels                                           LS                   75.0
Repairs & Maintenance                                    LS                   50.0
Travelling Allowances                                    LS                   25.0
Stationery & Miscellaneous                               LS                   30.0
3. Demonstration Plots
Field Visits/Travelling Allowances                       LS                   25.0
Stationery & Miscellaneous                               LS                   10.0
Sub-total                                                       708.0
Total Incremental Cost Per Annum                                           1,283.0
Iess Revenues from Sale of Nurseries                                         200.0
1'et Incremental Cost Per Annum                                            1,083.0
lotal Incremental Cost During the Project -/                Rs 4.25 M
I/ Assuming 30% and 60% of the expenditure; during Ist and 2nd years and 100%
expenditures in the last three years.
82



ANNEX 2(c)
Table 1
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                Total Annual Expenditures
Item                            Local   Foreigin   Total    1979   1980   1981   1982   .983
-------------(Rs M) ----------------
I. Civil Works
Staff Quarters in
Remote Areas 1/                1.50      0.70      2.20      0.30   1.00   0.90       -       -
Extension of DAEO's
Office                         0.15      0.05      0.20      0.20      -      -       -       -
Sub-total                    1.65      0.75      2.40      0.50   1.00   0.90       _      _
II. Equipment 2/
Transport Ve,iicles 3/          0.80      3.00      380      1.80   2.00       -      -       -
Other Equipm.:nt                0.20      0.15      0.35      0.10   0.25       -     _        -
Subtotal                     1.00      3.15      4.15      1.90   2.25      -       -      -
III. Technical Ass;istance
Overseas Study Tours               -      0.50      0.50        -    0.10   0.20   0.10   0.10
Farm Management Advisor 4/    0.35        1.50      .Il       0.40   1.00   0.45    -          -
Sub-total                    0.35      2.00      2.35      0.40   1.10   0.65   0.10   G.10
IV. Engineering 4, Administration
Implementati(,n of Civil
Works 5/                       0.35        -       0.35      0.10   0.15   0.10       -       -
Incremental Lecurrent
cost for Exten. Service 6/   5.00        1.00      6.00      0.70   1.10   1.40   1.40   1.40
Sub-total                    5.35      1.00      6 35      0.80   1.25   1.50   1.40   1.40
V. Base Cost                        8.35      6.90    15 25       3.60   5.60   3.05   1.50   1.50
VI. Physical Contingencies 7/        0.80      0.30      1 10     0.20   0.35   0.25   0.15   G.15
VII. Price Contingencies 8/           3.00      0.65      3 u5      0.20   1.05   0.90   06    0,j2
VIII. Total Cost 9/                   12.15      7.85    20.00       4.00   7.00   4.20   2.30   2.50
1/ 3 quarters for AOs at Rs 100,000 each.
10 quarters for SMSs at Rs 45,000 each;
15 quarters for AIs at Rs 45,000 each; and
25 quarters for KVSs at Rs 30,000 each.
2/   See Table 2 for details.
3/   Including 50% Import Duty on motor cycles and bicycles which are to be sold to the staff.
4/   3 man-years at US$60,000 per year.
5/   15% of I.
6/   See Table 3 for details.
7/   10% of I and IV and 5% of II.
8/   Assuming following price escalation factors:
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Foreign Costs           1.03   1.07   1.16   1.23   1.30
Local Costs             1.08   1.21   1.33   1.46   1.61
9/   Includes about Rs 0.7 M in taxes and duties.
83



ANNEX 2(c)
Table 2
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension
Equipment List aad Procurement Schedule
CIF/
Ex-Factory   Method                               1
UniFat  Ita   of Procu-    Procurement Schedule-
Item                         Quantity  Cost  ocst   rement             b h           d     e      f
--(US $'300) -
Transport Vehicles
Jeeps (4-wheel Drive)           12       7.1  .35.2    ICB   12/78  2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79 11/79
Mini buses                        2     13.0   26.0    ICB       "       "      "     "            if
90cc Motorcycles                55       1.0   55.0    PS        -       -     -      -     -  12/79
Bicycles                       270       0.1   27.0    PS        -       -     -      -     -
Sub-total                              193.2
Other Equipment
Audio-visual Eguipment          LS        -      5.0  ICB/PS 12/78   1/79  4/79  5/79  6/79 12/79
Office Equipment & Furniture
for the District Office and
Training sub-centers          LS        -    '4.0  PS         -     -      -     _      -    10/79
Raincoats                      350               3.0  PS            -          -    -       -
Sub-total                               32.0
Total                                  225.2Z/
1/ a - Specifications and Bid package to IDA.
b - Invitation to Bids.
c - Opening of Bids.
d - Fvaluation Report to IDA
e - Award of Contract.
f - Delivery at Site
2/ Of these goods work about US$10,000 equivalent are expected to be of local origin.
84



ANNEX 2 (c)
Table 3
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension
Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
Average            Total
Item                                   Quantit7         Unit Cost          Annual Cost
---(RS'000)-----(-_
A. Salaries and Benefits for
Additional Staff
AOs                                     3            13.0                    39.0
SMSs                                    9            10.0                    90.0
AIs                                     4             6.0                    24.0
KVSs                                  140             5.0                   700.0
Sub-total                                                              853.0
B. Other Expenses
Fuels and Oils 1/                                                            90.0
Repairs & Maintenance-/                                                      60.0
Field Visits/Travelling
Allowances                             LS                                   200.0
Stationery                            LS                                     50.0
Training Sub-Centers                   10            5.0                     50.0
Trials/Demons Plots                    LS                                    50.0
Miscellaneous                          LS                                    50.0
Sub-total                                                            550.0
Total Incremental Cost Per Annum                                   1,403.0
say Rs 1.4 M
Total Incremental Cost During
the Project 3/                           Rs 6.0 M
1/ 12 Jeeps each at Rs 6,000 per annum and 2 mini buses each at Rs 8,000 per annum.
2/ 12 Jeeps each at Rs 4,500 per annum and 2 mini buses each at Rs 4,000 per annum.
3/ Assuming 50% and 80% of the full expenditures during 1st and 2nd years and 100%
expenditures in the last three years.
85



ANNEX 2(d)
Table 1
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Input Supplies
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total  Cost             Total Annual Expenfitures
Item                        Local  Foreign  Total    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
------------------------(Rs M)---------------------------
I. Civil Works
Land Development and
Bligs. for Seed
Pr)cessing Center    1.50   0.50    2.00         0.50   1.00   0.50              -
Cons-. of/ertilizer
stzres -               1.20   0.50    1.70       0.2n   0.50   0.50   0.5(!    _
,ub-total           2.70   1.00    3.70       0.70   1.50   1.00   0.5(    -
II. EguIment 2/
Tran;port Vehicles       1.80   4.20    6.00       3.00   3.00    -        -       -
Othe: Equipment          0.60   3.25    3.85       0.35   1.50   1.50   0.50    -
Sub-total           Z.40   7.45    ).85       3.35   4.50   1.50   0.50    -
III. R&iieering and
Adi1iis tration
Implementation of
Civi: Works 3/           0.55    -       0.55      0.10   0.25   0.15   0.05    -
Incremental Recurrent
Cost for ADA 4/          2.00   o.55      '.55     0.35   0.55   0.55   0.55   0.55
'ub-total            2.55   0.55    :1.10      0.45   0.80   0.70   0.60   0.55
IV. Base Cost                 7.65   9.00   1' .65      4.50   6.80   3.20   1.60   0.55
V. Physical
Contingencies 5/         0.65   0.5,5    .20        0.30   0.45   0.25   0.15   0.05
VI. Price
Contingencies 6/         2.20   0.85    3.05        0.25   1.00   0.85   0.65   0.30
VII. Total Cost 7/            10.50  10.40   20.90       5.05   8.25   4.30   2.40   0.90
1/  For MPCs as well as ASCs.
2/ See Table 2 for details.
3/ 15% of I.
4/ See Table 3 for details.
5/ 10% of I and III and 5% of II.
6/ Assuming following price escalation factors:
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Foreign Costs                 1.03   1.07   1.16   1.23   1.30
Local Costs                   1.08   1.21   1.33   1.46   1.61
7/  Includes about Rs 1.35 M in taxes and duties.
86



Table Z
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Input Supplies
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
CIF/
Ex-Factory  Method of                            1/
Unit  Total  Procu-        Procurement Schedule -
Item                      Quantity   Cost  Cost   rement        a     b      c     d     e      f
- (US$'O00)--
Transport Vehiclesl/
Jeeps (4-wheel Drive)        11        7.1   78.1    ICB    12/78  2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79 11/79
Trucks (5 ton)                7       12.2   85.4    ICB                            "      "   "
90cc Motorcycles             50        1.0   50.0    PS         -      -      _     _     -  12/79
Bicycles                   520         0.1   52.0    PS            -      -         -     -
Tractor (45 HP)
and Trailer                 1        9.0    9.0    PS         -      -      -     -     -
Sub-total                               274.5
Other Equipment
Equipment for Seed
Processing Center           LS                60.0    PS        -      -      -     -     -  12/79
Mammoties                 50,000    0.0Q3  150.0    PS          _      _      _     _      _   I
Office Equipment for
ADA's Electoral
Managers                    LS                20.0    PS        -      -      -     -     -   10/79
Sub-total                               230.0
Total-/                                 504.5
1. a - Specifications & Bid package to IDA.
b - Invitation to Bids.
c - Opening of Bids.
d - Evaluation Report to IDA.
e - Award of Contract.
f - Delivery at Site
2/ One jeep, two trucks, one bicycle and one Tractor-trailer for the Seed
Processing Center.  Rest of the vehicles are for ADA and ASD.
3/ Includes goods worth about US$20,000 equivalent which are of
local origin.
87



ANNEX 2(d)
Table 3
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Input Supplies
Incremental Recurrent Expenditures (ADA)
Average       Total Annual
Quantity   Unit Cost         Cost
------------(Rs '000)----------------
A. Salaries and Benefits for Additional Staff
Deputy Provincial Director                           1          25.0             25.0
Electoral Agricultural Managers                      9          20.0           180.0
Clerks                                               9           5.5            49.5
Drivers                                              9           5.0            45.0
Sub-total                                                                   300.5
B. Other Expenses
9Q.Q
Fuels and Oils 1/
Repairs and Maintenance 2/                                                      67.5
Travelling Allowances                               LS                          50.0
Stationery and Miscellaneous                        LS                          54.0
Sub-total                                                                   261.5
Total Incremental Cost Per Annum                 -                        -562.0
Total Incremental Cost during the Project 3/               *-           Rs 2.55 M
1/ 15 Jeeps at Rs 6,000 per annum
2/ 15 Jeeps at Rs 4,500 per annum
3/ Assuming 507Zof the full expenditures in the first year and 100%
for the subsequent four years.
88



ANNE( 2 Ae)
Table 1
SRI LAMRA
KURULEGALA RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Exwenditures
Total Cost            Total Annual Expenditures
Item                              Local  Foreign  Total    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
------------ (Rs N) ----- ------_-_--________---____
I/
I. Crop Production Loans-l
Short-term loans for Food       7.50   14.00    21.50   0.50   4.50   5.00   5.50   6.00
Crops
Medium-term loans for
Coconut Rehabilitation          lQ.50   30.00    40.50   1.15   4.00   7.45  12.00  .]2
Sub-total              18.00   44.00    62.00   1.65   8.50  12.45  17.50  21.90
Ir, Loans for Farm Equlpment
and Vehicles 2
Farm Equipment                 8.60   30.00    38.60   4.60   9.10  10.10   9.10   5.70
Vehicles for MPCSs             3.10    4.40       7.50    .50   3.00   1.50    -
Sub-total              11.20   33.40    44.60   6.10  12.10  11.60   9.10   5.70
III. Vehicles and Office
Equipment for Banks 3/         0.40    0.50      0.90   0.70   0.20    -        -       -
IV. Technical Assistance
Consulting Services 4/         O.G5    0.30      0.35   0.10   0.10   0.15    -         -
Oveiseas Staff Training         _       0.30     0.30    -      0.10   0.10   0.10    -
Sub-total               0.05    0.60      0.65   0.10   0.20   0.25   0.10    -
V. Engineering & Admin.
Preparation of Agro
Identity Cart                  0.30    0.20      0.50   0.30   0.20    -        -       -
Preparationr cf Debt Inv em-
tories & S_ iF-Tent of Del,t-  0.30      -       0.30   0.30    -        -      -       -
Sub-total               0.60    0.20      0.80   0.60   0.20    -        -      -
VI. Base Cost                      30.25   78.70   108.95   9.15  21.20  24.30  26.70  27.60
VII. Price ConLinencies -1          3.75    5.35      9.10   0.40   1.50   2.40   2.65   2.15
VIII. Total CoLt-/                   34.00   84.05   118.05   9.55  22.70  26.70  29.35  29.75
1/ See Table 2 for details.
2/ See Table 3 for details.
31 See Table 4 for details.
4/ 6 man-months at US$7,000 per month.
5/ Assurming following price escalation factors:
1979    1980    1981    1982   1983
Foreign Costs    (excluding      1.04    1.09    1.16    1.23   1.30
Local Costs   5  crop loans)   1.08    1.21    1.33    1.46   1.61
6/  Includes about Rs 2.6 M in taxes and duties.
89



ANNEX 2(e)
Table 2
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
Crop Production Loans
A. Paddy and Subsidiary Food Crops
(Short-term loans)
Year
Item                                   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Estimated Area Using Institutional
Credit ('000 ac)                       10.0   10.0   15.0   20.0   25.0   30.0
Average Credit Amount-/
(Rs per ac)                     700    750    800    850    900    950
Total Annual Lending
(Rs M)                          7.0    7.5   12.0   17.0   22.5   28.5
Incremental Lending Over
Previous Year (Rs M)                    -      0.50   4.5    5.0    5.5    6.0
Incremental Lending During
the Project                      Rs 21.50 M
B. Coconut Rehabilitation
(Medium-term loans)
Year
Item                                   Total  1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Area to be Rehabilitated with
Institutional Credit ('000 ac)         50.0   3.0    7.0    10.0   15.0   15.0
Average Credit Amount
(Rs per ac)
1st Year                                 380    400    440    480    530
2nd Year                                 400    440    480    530    580
Total                            780    840    920  1,010  1,110
Total Lending (Rs M)              40.52         1.14   4,00   7.48  12.00  15.90
1/ Assuming that scales of financing would be periodically adjusted in line with
the prices of farm inputs.
90



ANNEX 2(e)
Table 3
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
Loans for Farm Equipment and Vehicles
Method of
Unit    T'otal   Procure-            Procurement Phasing
Item                  Quantity   Cost    Cost    ment             1979  1980  1981  1982  1983
(Rs'000) (Rs M)                 ---------(Number)-----------
Farm Equipment
Tractors (4-Wheel)
attachments              200       140.0    28.0        PS          25    50    50    50    25
Tractors (2-Wheel)
Attachments               500       20.0    10.0        PS          50   100   150   100   100
Hand Sprayers          1,000         0.6      0.6       PS         100   250   253   250   150
Sub-Total                              38.6
Vehicles for MPCS.s
Trucks (5 ton)             20    300.0        6.0       PS           5    10       5     -      -
Total Cost to be
financed                                     44.6
91



ANNEX 2(e)
Table 4
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
Equipment and Vehicles for Banks
CIF/
Ex-Factory      Method of                              1/
Unit   Total   Procure-          Procurement Schedule-
Item                 Quantity  Cost   Cost    ment           a    b    c    d    e    f
-(US$'000)--
Jeeps (4-WheEl Drive)   2        7.1    14.2       ICB     12/78  2/79 5/79 6/79 8/79 11/79
90-cc Motorc3cles         6      1.0      6.)       PS       -      -    -    -    -   12/79
Bicycles                 65      0.1      6.;       PS       -      -    -    -    -   12/79
Office Equipnment       LS               10.)       PS       -      -    -    -    -   12/79
Total-/                          36.7
1/  a - Specifications and Bid package to IDA.
b - Invitation to Bids.
c - Opening of Bids.
d - Evaluation Report to IDA.
e - Award of Contract.
f - Delivery at Site.
2/ Includes goods worth about US$5,000 equivalent which are of local origin.
92



ANNEX 2 (f)
Table 1
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost              Total Annual Expenditures
Item                         Local  Foreign  Total    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
-_________.____-------------(Rs M)-----------------------
I. Civil Works
Office and Clinic
Bldgs 1/                 0.20    0.0'5    0.25     0.05    0.10   0.10    -        -
Staff Quarters 2/        0.25    0.10    0.35      0.05    0.10   0.10   0.10    _
Sub-total         0.45    0.15    0.60       0.10    0.20   0.20   0.10    -
3/
II. Equipment-
Transport Vehicles       0.10    1.60    1.70      1.20    0.50    -        -      -
Other Equipment          0.10    0.15    0.25      0.10    0.15    -        -      _
Sub-total         0.20    1.75    1.95       1.30    0.65    -       -       _
III. Engineering &
Administration 4/        0.10     -       0.10      -       0.05    0.05   -       -
IV. Base Cost                -71.0 T5    lT53           T7    -l25 1TTG
V.  Physical
Contingencies 5/         0.05    0.:L0    0.15      0.05    0.05    0.05
VI.  Price
Contingencies 6/         0.15    0.15    0.30      o.l0    0.10   0.05   0.05
VII.  Total Cost 7/            0.95    2.15    3.10       1.55    1.05  0.35   0.15    -
1/ 3 Offices (Nikaweratiya, Dodangaslanda and Galgamuwa) at Rs 80,000 each
2/ 3 Quarters (Nikaweratiya, Dodangaslanda and Galgamuwa) at Rs 120,000 each for Vet.Surgeons
3/ See Table 2 for details.
4/ 15% of I
5/ 10? of I and 5% of II
6/ Assuming following price escalation factors:
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Foreign Costs           1.03   1.07   1.16   1.23   1.30
Local Costs             1.08   1.21   1.33   1.46   1.61
7/ Includes about Rs 0.10 M in taxes and duties.
93



ANNEX 2f)
Table 2
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
CIF/Ex-Factory Method of                         1/
Unit   Total  Procu-       Procurement Schedule-
Item                      Quantity   Cost   Cost   rement    a         b     c      d     e      f
--(US$'O0O)-
Transport Vehicles
Jeeps (4-wheel Drive)         14        7.1    99.4    ICB   12/78  2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79  11/79
Bicycles                      56       0.1      5.6    PS       -      -     -      -     -   12/79
Sub-total                               105.0
Other Equipment
Furniture ,Office Equipment
and Surgical Instruments    LS         -       15.0    PS                                      12/79
Total                                 120.0=-
1/ a - Specifications & Bid package to IDA.
b - Invitation to Bids.
c - Opening of Bids.
d - Evaluation Report to IDA
e - Award of Contract.
f - Delivery at Site.
2/ Includes goods worth about US$5,000 of local origin.
94



ANEX i(e)
SRI LANKA                             Table
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundwater Exploration
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                Total Annual Expenditures
Item                             Local   Foreign   Total    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
- -            ----------------- - -(Rs M)-------------------------
I.    Civil Works
Construction of 2.5"
size wells (150)         0.65       0.10      0.75     0.05  0.40   0.30    -
Construction of 6"
size wells (30)          0.20       0.10      0.30       -   0.10   0.20    -
Hydrological mapping
surveys                0.05        -        0.05     0.05   -       -       -
Sub-total       0.90      0.20      1.10      0.10  0.50   0.50
II.   Equipment!/
Const. equipment          0.40       4.80      5.20     2.00  3.20    -        -       -
Transport vehicles        0.30       0.60      0.90      0.60  0.30    -       -       -
Sub-total       0.70      5.40      6.10      2.60  3.50    -       -       -
III   Technical Assistance
Consulting Services 2/   0.10        0.45      0.55     0.10  0.15   0.30    -        -
Study Tours                -_        n 1 R     fn 1       -   n 1     _        -      -
Sub-total       0.10      0.60      0.70      0.10  0.30   0.30    -        -
IV.   Engineering & Admin.3/   0.45        0.05     0.50      0.10  0.20   0.20    -        -
v.    Rase Cost                  2.IS       6.25     8.40      2.90  4.5n   1.00    -        -
VI.   Physical
Contingencies 4/          0.10       0.30      0.40     0.10  0.20   0.10    -         -
VII   Price
Iontingencies  /           0.40      0.45      0.85      0.15  0.50   0.20    -        -
V1II. Total Coet  6/             2.65       7.00     9.65      3.15  5.20   1.30    -
1/  Ser, il-,i   Ior details
2/  Six marl-morithks at US$6,000 per montlh.
3/  Filteen percent of I and five percent of II.
4/  Ten percent of I and five percent of II.
5/ Ass'iming following price escalation factors:
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Foreign Costs          1.03   1.07   1.16   1.23   1.30
Local Costs            1.08   1.21   1.33   1.46   1.61          95
6/ Includes about Rs 0.4 M in taxes and duties.



ANNEX 2 (g)
Table .2
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundwater Exploration
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
CIF/
Ex-factory                      Procurement    Schedule -
Item              Quan-  =nt  Total   Method of
tity  Cost  Cost    Procurement    a       b       c      d       e      f
Construction Equipt.  _       -(US$'O0O0)-
1. Core Drilling
Machine              1    21.0   21.0    ICB          12/78   3/79   6/79   7/79   9/79   1/80
2. 'Well Drilling Rig
with accessories    1   200.0  200.0    ICB             "       to                           2/80
3. Resistivity
Instrument           I     9.0    9.0    ICB                                          "    12/79
4. Deep well 2" sub-
morsible- pump       2     9.0   18.0   ICB             "       "      "       "      "
5. Generator            2      1-.    2.0    ICB
6. Mobile Welding
machine              1    12.0   12.0    ICB            " 
7. Field w/shop
equipment            LS    -      10.0     PS           -        -     -       -      _
8. Drill bits &
spare parts          LS    -      50.0    ICB         12/78   3/79   6/79   7/79   9/79   2/80
Sub-Total               322.0
Transport Vehicles
1. Jeeps (4-wheel Drive) 2   7.1   14.2    ICB           12/78   2/79   5/79   6/79   8/79  11/79
2. Trucks (5 ton)       2    12.2   24.4    ICB
Sub-total               38.6
Total                  360.6 21
1/ a. Specification and bid package to IDA.
b. Invitation to bids.
c. Opening of bids.
d. Evaluation Report to IDA.
e. Award of contract.
f. Delivery at site.
2/ lncludesF goods worth about US$10,000 equivalent which would be of local origin.
96



ANNEX 2(h)
Table 1
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads
Cost Estimates and Schedules of Expenditures
Total  Cost                Total Annual Expenditures
Item                        Local  Foreign  Total    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
----------------------(Rs M)---------------------------------
I. Givil Works
Village Access Roads         5.40    0.60    6.00    0.40    1.40    1.40    1.40    1.40
School Access Roads          0.60    0.10    0.70    0.20    0.30    0.20    -             -
Sub-total      6.00    0.70    6.70    0.60    1.70    1.60    1.40    1.40
II. Equipment 2/
Construction Equipment       0.25    3.45    3.70    1.90    1.80    -            -        -
Transport Vehicles           0.05    0.95    1.00    0.70    0.30    -            -        -
Other equipment              -        0.10    0.10    0.10    -          -
Sub-total       0.30    4.50    4.80    2.70    2.10    -            -       -
III. Engineering and
Administration 3/            0.90    0.10    1.00    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20
IV. Base Cost                    7.20    5.30   12.50    3.50    4.00    1.80    1.60    1.60
V. Physical contingencies 4/  1.00    0.30    1.30    0.30    0.40    0.20    0.20    0.20
VI. Price contingencies 5/        2.85    0.35    3.20    0.15    0.60    0.60    0.80    1.05
VII. Total Cost 6/                11.05    5.95   17.00    3.95    5.00    2.60    2.60    2.85
-   See Table 3 for details.
2/  See Table 2 for details.
3/  Fifteen percent of I.
4/  Fifteen percent of I and five percent of II.
5/  Assuming following price escalation factors:
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Foreign Costs              1.03    1.07    1.16    1.23    1.30
Local Costs                1.08    1.21    1.33    1.46    1.61
-   Includes about Rs 0.5 M in taxes and duties.
97



ANNEX 2(h)
Table 2
SRI LANKA
KDRUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
CIF/Ex-factory                Procurement Schedulel/
Quan- Unit  Total  Method of
Item                    tity  Cost  Cost   Procurement   a   b         c      d    e    f
Construction Equipment
1.  Tractor with trailer        6    10.2   61.20       ICB      12/78 3/79  6/79 7/79 9/79  1/80
2.  Tipper                      3    12.0   36.00       ICB        "    "      "          "    2/80
3.  Bowser                      1    12.8   12.80       ICB        "    "      "    "    "    1/80
4.  Diesel Roller               2    13.0   26.00       ICB        "    "      "    "     "
5.  Motor Grader                1    44.0   44.00       ICB           "     "       "    "    2/80
6.  Tar sprayer                 2      3.5    7.00      ICB        "    "      "    "    "   12/79
7.  Tat boiler                  6      1.0    6.002-   PS          -    _      _    _    _   10/79
8.  Concrete mixer              2      2.7    5.40      ICB      12/78  3/79  6/79 7/79 9/79 12/79
9-  Water pumps (4")            2      1.5    3.00      ICB        "        "      "       "   10/79
10.  Water pumps (3")            2      1.0    2.00      ICB        "     "      "     "   "   10/79
11.  Concrete vibrators          2      0.6    1.20      ICB     12/78  3V79 6/79  7/79 9/79 12/79
12.  Spare parts                 LS    -      i7.00      ICB        "    "      "    "    "      2/80
Sub-total                   221.60
Transport Vehicles
1.  Jeeps (4-wheel drive)       3      7.1   21.30      ICB      12/78 2/79  5/79 6/79 8/79 11/79
2.  Trucks (5 ton)              3    12.2   36.60       ICB        "    "      "    "    "
Sub-total                    57.90
Office and Survey Equipt.
1.  Theodolites                 2      2.3    4.60      PS         -    -      -    -    -   10/79
2.  Typewriters                 4       .4    1.60      PS         -    -      -    -    -
3.  Office equipment           LS       -       .30     PS         -    -      -    -    -
Sub-total                     6.50
Total                       286.00
/ a. Specifications and bid package to IDA.
b. Invitation to bids.
c. Opening of bids.
d. Evaluation report to IDA.
e. Award of contract.
f. Delivery at site.
2/ Local component.
98



ANNEX 2(h)
SRI LANKA                                    Table 3
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ruiral Roads
C:Lvil Works
Serial                                     Length  Excavation   Embankment   Road          Culverts   Bridges   Causeways    Cost
No.     Name of Road                       Mile      cu yd         cu yd    Surfacing        Nos.       Nos.        Nos.    (Rs Million)
cu yd
Village Access Roads
1.  Ihalagama Timbiriyawa                  8.0       4,218        11,803      2,960          6          -          _          0.20
2.  Konwewa Ihalagama-Hettigama             6.5      1,184         5,032      1,184          4          -           -         0.40
3.  Kumbukulawa Potuwila                   5.0       9,916        22,200      4,440         15          -           2         0.50
4.  Diulwewa Kuruwikulama                   4.0      -             -          6,590          -          -           -         0.25
5.  Nagollagama Korambe                    4.5       3,256         3,382      3,182          -          -          -          0.15
6.  Ihalakinlyama Welangirtya               2.2      3,441         9,176      1,332         11          -           -         0.20
7.  Kobeigane Ujjekele                    10.0       8,325        13,690      7,104          9          -          -          0.40
8.  Hettipola Kolamunaya                   10.0     10,730        22,940      8,732         15          -           -         0.65
9.  Ambakadarawewa Mihihanegima             3.3      3,700         4,810      2,664          3          -           -         0.15
10.  Hantanegama Ridigama                   2.2       3,404         2,590      1,332          2          -           1         0.10
11.  Digalla Koshena                        3.7       2,960         3,700      2,960          -          -          -          0.15
12.  Buluwala Kongoda                        2.0      2,590         4,366      1,184          3          -           -         0.10
13.  Athuruwara Paranagama                   1.5      2,405         4,440      1,332          3          -           -         0.15
14.  Mahgalkadawala-MahananerLya           10.0      10,360        48,100      5,180         13          -          -          0.85
15.  Wetakoluwagama-Siyambala1amuwa         4.2       4,810         3,700      3,404          3          -           -         0.15
16.  Ehetuwewa-Siyambalangamu'za            5.8       6,290         4,810      3,626          1          -           -         0.20
17.  Yapahuwa-Galtenewewa                  10.0       3,256         4,107      5,291          7          -           -         0.20
18.  Ella-Kadambawa                         10.0      5,550         9,010      5,920          2          -           -         0.30
19.  Ganewatta-Moragollawa                  12.1     12,450        19,610      6,380         15          -           1         0.65
20.  Pahala Mawatagama Kadigawia             5.0      -             -          7,850          -          -           -         0.25
Sub-total                        120.0                                                                                6.00
School Access Roads
21.  Pinnapalagama-Siyambalaw.wa
Madurugama         2.8       L.S.          -         -              -          -           -          0.20
22.  Alutgama Nalewa                         0.65     3,450         2,220        630          3          -           -          0.10
23.  Galgamuwa Nerawiya                      1.0      1,370         4,440        900          6          -           -          0.10
24.  Mahakeliya Thalagamuwa-Mi.guruoya       2.35     3,145         4,070      2,000          3          -           2          0.15
25.  Access to Buluwelakanda !;chool         0.5        480         1,480        300          5          -           -          0.05
26.  Erapolakanda                            0.3         220        1,110        190          2          -           -          0.05
27.  Agara School                            0.5        820         2,780        300          2          -           -          0.05
Sub-total                          8.1                                                                                0.70
6.70
Total                            128.1
99



ANNEX 2(i)
Table 1
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Water Supply
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Item                               Total Cost                  Total Annual Expenditures
Local   Foreil   Total   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
-----------------------(Rs M)-----------------------------
I. Civil Works
Sunk wells Caisson Type
170 @ Rs 20,000 each        2.80     0.EO      3.40   -        0.80   0.80   0.90   0.90
Dug & built-up wells in
hard rock:
100 @ Rs 14,000 each        1.20     0.20      1.40   -        0.35   0.35   0.35   0.35
Dug & built-up wells partly
in hard latterite:
130 at Rs 12,000 each       1.35     0.20      1.55   0.40   0.30   0.30   0.30   0.25
Miscellaneous:
(water quality improve-
ments)                     0.10      -         0.10   -       0.10   -       -       -
Sub-total                 5.45      1.00     6.45   0.40   1.55   1.45   1.55   1.50
II.  Equipment-/
Construction Equipment        0.10      0.&0      0.90   0.40   0.50   -        -       -
Transport Vehicles            0.30      0.,0      1.00   0.60   0.40   -
Sub-total                 0.40      1.50     1.90   1.00   0.90   -         -      -
III.  Engineering and   2/
Administration-/          0.85      0.l0     0.95   0.10   0.20   0. 25   0.20   0.20
IV.  Base Cost                     6.70      2.t,O     9.30   1.50   2.65   I.0   1.75   1.70
V.  Physical Contingencies- 3/    0.70      0.:30     1.00   0.10   0.30   0.20   0.20   0.20
VI.  Price Contingencies -          2.75     0.:30     3.05   0.10   0.45   0.f0   0.85   1.05
VII.  Total Cost 5/                10.15      3.'0    13.35   1.70   3.40   2.2,0   2.80 2.95
1/  See Table 2 for details.
2/  Fifteen percent of I.
3/  Fifteen percent of I and five percent of [I.
4/  Assuming following price escalation factors:        1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Foreign Costs              1.03   1.07   1.16   l..'3   1.30
Local Costs                1.08   1.21   1.33   1.eZ6   1.61
5/  Includes about Rs 0.6 M in taxes and duties.
100



ANNEX 2(i)
Table 2
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOiMENT PROJECT
Rural Water Supply
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
CIF/                                                  1/
Ex-factorv      Method of        Procurement Schedule-
Quan- Unit  Total    Procure-
Item                  tity  Cost  cost      _ment           a     b       c     d      e     f
-(US$'000)-
Construction Equipt.
1. Water pumps (4")       8    1.5   12           ICB       12/78 3/79   6/79  7/79  9/79  12/79
2. Puenumatic compressor
with accessories       1    7       7          ICB         "    "                          1/80
3. Power Operated Winch  1    5        5          ICB         "    "
4. Core  drilling         1   21      21          ICB         "    "       "
machine
5. Drill bits & spare
parts                 LS    6       6          ICB         "    "       "
6. Auxillary equipt.    LS    3        3           PS         -    -       _     _      _     12/79
Sub-total                 54
Transport Vehicles
1. Jeeps (4-wheel DrLve) 3    7.1   21.3          ICB       12/78 2/79   5/79  6/79  8/79  11/79
2. Trucks (5 ton)         2   12.2   24.4         ICB         "    " i t"
Sub-total                 45.7
Total                      99.7
a. Specifications and bid package to IDA.
b. Invitation to bids.
c. Opening of bids.
d. Evaluation report to IDA.
e. Award of contract.
f. Delivery at site.
2/ Local component.
101



ANNEX 2(j)
Table I
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Electrification
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                  Total Annual Expenditures
Item                     Local   Foreign   Total         1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
------------------------(Rs M)-------------------------------
I. Civil Works
Electrification of
16 Rural Areas 1/       6.90      2.50     9.40        1.80   3.80    3.80
II.  Equipment -
Transport Vehicles        0.50      0.95      1.45       1.05   0.40      -       -
Other Equipment             -       0.05     0.05        0.05      -     -
Sub-total             0.50      1.00     1.50        1.10   0.40      -      -
III.  Engineering and
Administration 3/         1.20      0.10      1.30       0.30   0.50   0.50
IV.  Base Cost                 8.60      3.60    12.20        3.20   4.70   4.30
V. Physical
Contingencies 4/          0.70      0.30     1.00        0.20   0.40   0.40
VI.  Price Contingencies 5/   2.10       0.30      2.40       0.20   0.85   1.35
VII.  Total Cost 6/            11.40      4.20    1             3.60   5.95   6.)5
1/  See Table 3 for details.
2/  See Table 2 for details.
3/ Fifteen percent of I.
4/ Ten percent of I and five percent of II.
5/  Assuming following price escalation factors:   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Foreign Costs           1.03   1.07   1.16   1.23   1.30
Local Costs             1.08   1.21   1.33   1.46   1.61
6/ Includes about Rs 0.8 M in taxes and duties.
102



ANNEX 2(j)
Table 2
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Electrification
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
CIF/Ex-factorv  Method        Procurement Schedule-
Quan- Unit  Total    of Pro-
Item                      tity  Cost  Cost      curement  a       b     c      d   e    f
--(US$ 000')_ -
Transport Vehicles
Jeeps (4-wheeJ  Drive)          2    7.1    14.20       ICB   12/78 2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79 11/79
Station wagon                   2   10.7    21.40       ICB      II    "           "      "
Trucks (5 tons)                 2   12.2    24.40       ICB      "    "      "     "      t
Sub-total                   60.00
Miscellaneous Equipment
Lineman's tool kit              8    0.4      3.20      P.S.    -    -       -     -      -   12/79
Total                                     63.20
1/
a.  Specifications and bid package to IDA.
b. Invitation to bids.
c. Opening of bids.
d. Evaluation report to IDA.
e. Award of contract.
f. Delivery at site.
103



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Electrification
Civil Works
Prospective Consumers   33 KV Line             LT Line              Sub-station         Cost
Commercial                   3 ph   2 ph   1 ph    50   100   150  (Rs million)
Name of Scheme                   Domestic   and Others
------ numbers ------   ---miles----             miles -----    ---       KVA----
1. Hiripitiya                          60           41             0.25       2.75    -      2.50    -       -      1        0.54
2. Tittawella and Pellandeniya         50            15            1.00       1.75    -      0.50    -       2     -          0.43
3. Piduma                              30            13            0.50       4.00    -      2.75    2       -      -         0.71
4. Hindagolla, Meegalla and
Galapitamulla                     75           14            1.00       2.25    -       1.25    1      -      -         0.45
5. Kaudawatte/Aswedduma               140            17            1.50       0.50    -      2.00    1       -      -         0.40
6. Bamunugedera/Hadalanwatte          130           22             2.30         -      0.70  3.25    1       -      -         0.57
7. Kulipitiya                          67            11            0.50         -      -     2.30    1       -      _         0.27
8. Panagamuwa/Ogadalpola               90          109             3.00       0.80    0.40  0.60    1        -                0.52
9. Manamukalanyaya/Dehelwehera        145            18            0.60       1.30    1.00  3.30    -        1      -         0.55
10. Dunukewatte                         70             7            0.60       1.30    1.00  3.30    -        1      -         0.55
11. Weerakodiyana  *                    35            15            - _          -      1.25  0.75    1       -      _         0.24
12. Mahakeliyr  *                       45           20             0.05       1.00    -      2.75    -       I      -         0.40
13. Maharachchimulla *                 160           50             3.00       3.50    0.50  2.00    -        -      1         1.04
14. Kandanegedera                      120            56            3.50       1.50    2.00  1.00    -        -      1         1.00
15. Pannawa/Kobeigane *                115           81             4.75       0.50    1.00  4.10    -        1      -         1.13
16. Hettipola/Kuliyapitiya *            53            16            0.25       2.60    -      1.80    -       1      -         0.60
Total         1,385          505            22.80      23.75    7.85 34.15    8        7     a          9.40
*  Schemes investigated after appraisal and hence not shown on Map No. IBRD 13945
C                                                                                                                                 I



ANNEX 2(k)
Table 1
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                 Total Annual Expenditures
Item                             Local  Foreign  Total        1979    1980  1981   1982   1983
_ _____________-----------(Rs M) -----------------------------
I.    Civil Works
MOH Office Bld1s-l         0.55     0.20    0.75        0.05    0.20  0.20   0.20   0.10
Staff Quartera4'          0.60      0.25    0.85        0.10    0.20  0.20   0.20   0.15
Installation for
Diesel Generat:ors         0.05       -      0.05        -       0.05   -       -      -
Sub-total           1.20      0.45    1.65       0.15    0.45  0.40   0.40   0.25
II.   Equipment3/
Transport Vehicles         0.10     1.95    2.05        1.50    0.55   -       -       -
Diesel Generat:ors         0.05     0.25    O.i0         -       0.30   -       -      -
Medical Equipment          0.10     0.90    1.00        0.50    0.50   -        -      -
Sub-totE,l          0.25      3.10,   3.i5       2.00    1.35   -        -      -
III.  Engineering & 4/
Administratior4            0.25      -       0.25       0.05    0.05  0.05   0.05   0.05
IV.   Base Cost                 iT76       3.55    5.25       2.20    1.85  0.45   0.45   0.30
V.   Physical
Contingencies5/            0.15     0.20    0.35        0.10    0.10  0.05   0.05   0.05
VI.   Price         6/
Contingencies-             0.55     0.25,   0.80        0.05    0.20  0.15   0.20   0.20
VII.   Total Cost7/               2.40      4. 00    6.40      2.35    2.15  0.65   0.70   0.55
_ = _=
1/ Five offices (Maho, Gokeralla, Kandanegedara, Bingiriya and Moonamaldeniya) at
Rs 150,000 each.
2/ Six MO/DMO/MOH quarters (Narammala, Mawatagama, Gokeralla, Kandanegedara, Bingiriya and
Moonamaldeniya) at Rs.11$,000 each and 4 mid-wife quarters (Maho, Hiripitiya,
Muwanhela, Gokeralla) at Rs. 40,000 each.
3/  See Table 2 for details.
4/  Fifteen percent of I.
-/  Ten percent of I and five percent of II.
6/  Assuming following price escalation factors:
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Foreign Costs                 1.0)3    1.07    1.16    1.23    1.30
Local Costs                   1.()8    1.21    1.33    1.46    1.61
7/  Includes about Rs 0.1 M in taxes and duties.
105



ANNEx 2 (k)
Table 2
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Haalth
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
CIF/
Ex-Factory   Method
Unit   Total Af PrQcu-   Procurement Schedule-
Item                     Quantity  Cost   Ccst   rement    a        b     c     d      e     f
--(US$G000)-
Transport Vehicles
Ambulances2/                  7     10.0   70.0    ICB    12/78  2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79  11/79
Jeeps (4-wheel Drive)        7       7.1   49.7    ICB       "       is"          "     "
Truck (3-tons)               1       7.0    7.0    ICB                  "      "        "
Sub-total                             126.7
Medical Equipment
Operating Theater In-
strument Set                 1       8.0    8.0    PS        -       _     _      _     -   12/79
Autoclave Sterilizer          1     13.5   13.5    PS         "      "      "     "     "
Boyles Anaesthetic
Machine                      1       2.5    2.5    PS         i      "     "      "     "
Suction Apparatus            1       1.5    1.5    PS        i       *                  IS *I
Electric Suckers             3       1.5    4.5    PS        "       "     "      "     " 
Refrigerators                8       0.6    4.8    PS               "      "      "     "
Microscopes                   2      1.5    3.0    PS            "      "      "
Miscellaneous Equipment    LS              20.0    PS                                "         H
Sub-total                              57.8
Other Equipment
20 kw Diesel Generators 4/  5        3.5   17,J    ICB   12/78   3/79  6/79  7/79  9/79  12/79
Total                                 202.0
1/ a - Specifications & Bid package to IDA.
b - Invitation to Bids.
c - Opening of Bids.
d - Evaluation Report to IDA
e - Award of Contract
f - Delivery at Site.
2/  One each at Maho, Polpitigama, Kuliyapitiya, Nikaweratiya, Mawatagama, Bingiriya,
and Pahalagiribawa.
3/  One each at Gokeralla, Mawatagama, Maho, Polgahawela, Galgamuwa, Wariyipola and
Kurunega'a.
4/  One each at Kurunegala, Nikawewa, Polpitigama, and Katupotha, and one 3tandby.    106



ANNEX 2 (1)
Table 1
SRI LANKA
KIURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education
Cost Estimates and Schedule! of Expenditures
Total Cost                Total Annual Expenditures
Item                       Local  Foreign  Total       1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
--------------------------(Rs M)-------------------------
I.    Civil Works
Teachers Quarters
for Remote Areas 1/  1.00    0.40    1.40    0.20    0.30   0.30   0.30   0.30
Science Rooms for
Junior Secondary
Schools 2/            1.20    0.60    1.80    0.30    0.40   0.40   0.40   0.30
Improvements to
Senior Secondary
Schools 3/            1.40    0.70    2.10    0.10    0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50
Sub-total         3.60    1.70    5.30    0.60    1.20   1.20   1.20   1.10
II.   Equipment 4/
Edu. Equipment for
Primarl Schools       0.20    0.30    0.50    0.30    0.20    -         -       -
Science Equipment
for Jun.Secondary
Schools;              0.20    0.40    0.60    0.30    0.30    -         -       -
Equip. for Senior
Secondary Schools    0.10    0.50    0.60    0.10    0.50    -          -       -
Equip. for School
Leavers Program       0.10    0.25    0.35    0.10    0.25    -         -       -
Equip. for Tech.
Education             0.20    2.20    2.40       -      0.80   1.60    -        -
Transport Vehicles   0.05    0.30    0.35    0.35        -       -      -       -
Sub-total         0.85    3.95    4.80    1.15    2.05   1.60    -         -
III.  Technical Assistance
Consulting
Services  5/          0.05    0.25    0.30    0.15    0.15    -         -       -
IV.   Engineering &
Administration 6/    0.70    0.10    0.80    0.15    0.15   0.20   0.20   0.10
V.    Base Cost              5.20    6.00   11.20    2.05    3.55   3.00   1.40   1.20
VI    Physical
Contingencies 7/      0.40    0.35    0.75    0.10    0.25   0.20   0.10   0.10
VII.  Price
Contingencies 8/      1.85    0.70    2.55    0.10    0.45   0.75   0.60   0.65
VIII. Total Cost 9/          7.45    7.05   14.50    2.25    4.25   3.95   2.10   1.95
1/ 40 Quarters at Rs 35,000 each.
2/ 140 Rooms at Rs 13,nnn each
3/ 7 Schools at Rs 300,000 each.
4/ See Table 2 for details.
5/ 3 man-months at US$6,000 per man-month.
6/ 15% of I.
7/ 10% of I and 5% of II.
8/ Assuming following price escalation factors:
1979  1980  1981  1982  1983
Foreign Costs            1.03  1.07  1.16  1.23  1.30
Local Costs              1.08  1.21  1.33  1.46  1.61
9/ Includes about Rs 0.5 M in taxes and duties.
107



ANNEX 2(1)
Table 2
SRI LhNKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Educal-ion
Equipment List and Piocurement Schedule
CIF/
Ex-Factoty Method of
Unit  Totail Procu-         Procurement Scheule-
Item                     Quantity   Cost  Cost  rement        a      b     c      d     e    f
-(US$'000)-
Educational Equipment
Equipment for Primary
School                     120 sets  0.25   30.0  PS                      _                  12/79
Equipment for Junior
Secondary Schools 2/         LS              34.5  PS          -     _      _     _      _
Equipment for Senior
Secondary Schools 3/         LS              34.8  PS         -      -      -     -          12/80
Equipment for School
Leavers Program              LS              20.0  PS                -
Equipment for Technical
Education                    LS            150.G  ICB/PS    8/79  12/79  3/80  4/80  9/80  12/80
Jeeps (4-Wheel Drive)        3        7.1    21.3   ICB    12/78  2/79   5/79  6/79  8/79  11/79
Total1.                          290.6
1/ a - Specifications & Bid package to IDA.
b - Invitation to Bids.
c - Opening of Bids.
d - Evaluation Report to IDA.
e - Award of Contract.
f - Delivery at Site.
2/ 80 sets of science equipment at US$400 each and 5 sets of crafts equipment at
US$500 each.
3/ 3 sets of science equipment at US$4,600 each and misc. science and agricultural
equipment for 7 schools to be upgraded at US$3,000 each.
4/ Includes goods of local origin worth abcut US$20,000.
108



ANNEX 2(m)
Table 1
SRI LANKA
XURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Coordination an,d Investigations
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                   Total Annual Expenditures
Item                        Local  Foreign  Total      1979   1980    1981    1982    1983
-------------------------(Rs M)------------------------------
I. Civil Works
Project Office Building      0.20   0.15      0.35     0.25   0.10       -       _       _
Miscellaneous Living
Quarters and Offices       0.25   0.25     0.50      0.15   0.35       -       _       _
Sub-total                0.45   0.40     0.85      0.40   0.45       -       _       _
II.  Equipment and Vehicles 1/   0.60   4.00       4.60     2.60   2.00       -       -        -
III.  Technical Assistance
Consulting Services 2/       1.60   3.00      4.60     1.00   1.70    1.50    0.20    0.20
Overseas Study Tours           -    0.40      0.40       -    0.20    0.20       -        -
Sub-total                1.60   3.40     5.00      1.00   1.90    1.70    0.20    0.20
IV. Engineering & Administration
Civil Works 3/               0.10     -       0.10      0.05   0.05      -       -        -
Incremental Recurrent
Cost 4/                    5.00   1.00    6. 00      1.40   2. 50    0.90    0.60    0.60
Sub-total                5.10   1.00     6.10      1.45   2.55    0.90    0.60    0.60
V.  Base Cost                    7.75   8.80    16.55      5.45   6.90    2.60    0.80    0.80
VI.  Physical Contingencies 5/   0.55   0.35       0.90     0.30   0.40    0.10    0.05    0.05
VII.  Price Contingencies 6/       2.00   0.75      2.75     0.30   1.10    0.65    0..4 f
VIII.  Total Cost 7/               10.30   9.90    20.20       6.05   8.40    3.35    1.15    1.25
1/ See Table 2 for details.
2/ Preparation of Development Plans for other Districts: 24 man-months at US$6,000 per month;
Preparation of Dis-trict Statistical Handbooal: 3 man-months at US$7,000 per months
Preparation of plans for project monitoring and evaluation: 6 man-months at US$6,000
per man-month. In addition a lump sum of Rs 1.5 M is included for contracting local
research institutions and firms for undertaking monitoring and evaluation studies.
3/ 15% of I.
4/ See Table 3 for details.
5/ 10% of I and IV and 5% of II
6/ Assuming following price escalation factors:
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Foreign Costs       1.03   1.07   1.16   1.23   1.30
Local Costs         1.08   1.21   1.33   1.46   1.61
7/ Includes about Rs 0.5 M in taxes and duties.
109



SRI LA1WKA                          ANNEX 2(ti)
Table 2
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProJect Coordination and Investigations
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
CIF/Ex-f'actury  method         PrcrmntShdl
Quan- Unit  Total    of Pro-         Procurement Schedt,le-
tity  Cost   Cost    curement    a    b    c        d      e      f
--(US$'000)-
A. Ministry of
Plan Implementation
Misc. Office Equipment    LS    -        10.0      PS       -    -      -     -      -     12/79
B. Regional Dev. Division
Passenger cars               6    6.0   36.0       ICB   12/78  2/79  5/79  6/79  8/79  11/79
Jeeps (L-Wheel Drive)        4    7.1   28.4        ICB     "            "      "     t
Office Equipment and
Furniture                LS    -    10.0         PS       "     "         "
Sub-total                          74.4
C. Kurunesala Prolect Office
Passenger Cars                1   6.0    6.(       ICR                          I t "n
Jeeps (4-Wheel Drive)         3   7.1   21.3       ICB       d           "                   n
2-Way Radio CODI. Equip.   LS            20.0       ICB/PS  "      "     "      "     "
Misc. Office Equipment
and Furniture            LS           20.0       PS      -      _     _      _     _   10/79
Sub-total                           6?.3
D. Department of Census and
Statistics
Jeeps (4-Wheel Drive)        2    7.1  14.2         ICB     "      "     "
Misc. Office Equipment
and Furniture            LS    -       5.0       Ps      -      -     -      -     _   10179
Sub-total                          19.2
E. Other GOSL Agencies
Equipment and vehicles
for use in Project
Evaluation 2/               LS           25.0      ICB/PS  n              "            "
Equipment and Vehicles    LS    -    80.0         ICB/PS   "       "     "
for use in preparation
of District Dev. Plans
for other Districts.-
Sub-total                       105.1
Total4!                         275.9
1/  a. Specifications and bid package to IDA.
b. Invitation to bids.
c. Opening of bids.
d. Evaluation report to IDA.
e. Award of contract.
f. Delivery at site.
2/  Including one for the Central Bank to assist them in carrying out
benchmark and follow-up surveys in the District.
3/  Allocation to be decided by the Project Steering Committee.
4/ Includ . good worth about US$25,000 which jould be of local origin.
110



ANNEX 2(m)
Table 3
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Coordination and Investigations
Incremental Recurrent Expenditure
(Rs '000)
Min. Plan Implemen-
tation/Reg. Dev. Div.                         Preparation of
A.  Salaries & Benefits for           Project Coord. and        Kurunegala        District Statistical   Preparation of New
Additional Staff                      ManaRement          Project Office           hand Book          Rural Dev. Projects
Regional      Other Proj.
Ave.                                                                        Dev. Div.      Agencies
Unit                Annual             Annual                  Annual             Annual    Annual        Total
Staffing          Cost       No.        Cost       No.    Cost          No.        Cost              Cost       Cost         Cost
Project Director           22        -           -          1      22          -           -          -       -
Dy. Director               19        1           19         1      19          _           -           4      76
Asst.Director              15        1           15         1      15          1          15           4      60
Engineer                   16        -           -          2      32          -           -           -      -
Planning Officer           14        1           14         1      14          -           -           4      56
Technicians/                9        -           -          4      36          2           18          -      -
Statisticians
Dev./ Stat.                 7        2           14         1       7          2            14         10     70
Officers
Stat. Inveatigators         5        -          -          -       -           6           30          -      -
Draftsman /Surveyors        8        -           -          3      24          -            -          1       8
Accountant                 18        1           18         1      18          -           -           -      -
Clerk/Typist/Steno.         5        6           30         8      40          2           10          2      10
Drivers                     4        2            8         4      16          2            8           8     32
Laborers                   3        2            6         3        9          1            3          1       3
Sub-total                                   124                252                      98               315
B.  Other Expenses
FueL & OilLL               LS                    12                 24                       12              48
Repair & Maintenance2/   iS                       9                 18                        9              36
Field Visits/Travelling/
Allowances                LS                   25                 50                       25               70
Stationery                  LS                   10                 20                       20               20
Misc.                        LS                   4                 20                        5               20
Sub-total                                     60               132                        71             194
Total Annual Cost                               184                384                      169             509
Total Cost during the Project                   828__           1 728-3/                    338A/           636-      2,500 LS6       Rs 6.030
Say 6.00 M
1/ Jeeps and cars at Rs 6,000 each, per annum.
2/ Jeeps and cars at Rs 4,500 each, per annum.
3/ Assuming 50% expenditure in lst year, and 100% for the remaining four years.
X/ Assuming 50% expenditure in lst year and 100% in the second year and 50% in the third year.
5/ Assuming 50% expenditure in the 1st year and 75% in the second year.
g/ Incremental staff only. Includes Rs 0.5 M for investigation of proposals for future
investments in the Kurunegala District.
111



ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Analysis
List of Tables
Table 1                P,esent and Future Paddy Area, Yields
and Production
Table 2                Present and Future Coconut Area, Yields
and Production
Table 3                Intput Use for Paddy Cultivaticn
Table 4                Input Use for Coconut Cultivation
Table 5                Prices for Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 6                Farm Budgets
Table 7                Aunual Crop Production Costs
Table 8                Economic Rate of Return
112



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGAIA RURAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Present and Future Paddy Area, Yields and ProductionC
MaJor Irrigation Schemes            Minor Irrigation Schemes                    Rainfed                           District Total
2/                                                                                    i 
2                                                _ w                      _                         _
3/
Asweddumized Area       25          25           25          70           75          85            75          75           70          170           175           180
('000 ac)
Gross Sown Area 4/
('000 ac)
Maha              23(92)       24(95)     -24(95)       61(87)      67(90)       81(95)       71(95)       71(95)       66(95)      155(91)       162(93)       171(95)
Yala               15(60)      15(60)       19(75)      28(40)      30(40)       43(50)       41(55)       41(55)       39(55)       84(49)        86(49)       101(56)
Annual         5/ 48(152)      38(155)     43(170)      89(127)     97(130)    124(145)      112(150)    112(150)    105(150)       239(140)      248(142)     272(151)
Gross Harvested Area
(t000 ac)
Maha              23(98)       24(98)      24(98)       56(92)      62(92)       77(95)       65(92)       65(92)       63(95)      144(93)       151(93)       164(96)
Yala               14(90)      14(90)       17(90)      22(80)       24(80)      36(85)       33(80)       33(80)       33(85)       69(82)        71(82)        86(85)
Annual  6/        37(97)       38(97)      41(95)       78(87)      86(88)      113(91)       98(88)       98(88)       96(91)      213(89)       222(89)       250(92)
Average Yield-
(bu/ac)
Maha              65(1.33)    68(1.39)    75(1.53)    46(0.94)    50(1.02)    57(1.16)        43(0.88)    47(0.96)    53(1.08)    48(0.98)        52(1.06)       58(1.18)
Yala              50(1.02)    53(1.08)    60(1.22)    37(0.76)    40(0.82)    45(0.92)        37(0.76)    40(0.82)    45(0.92)    40(0.82)        43(0.88)       48(0.98)
Annual            59(1.20)    61(1.24)    69(1.41)    43(0.88)    47(0.96)    53(1.08)        41(0.84)    44(0.90)    50(1.02)    45(0.92)        49(1.00)       55(1.12)
Production 7/
(M bu)
Maha               1.27(25.9) 1.39(28.4)  1.53(31.2)  2.19(44.7)  2.64(53.9)  3.73(76.1)   2.38(48.6)  2.60(53.1)  2.84(58.0)  5.84(119.2)  6.63(135.3)  8.10(165.3)
Yala              0.60(12.2) 0.63(12.9)  0.87(17.8)  0.69(14.1)  0.82(16.7)  1.37(28.0)   1.04(21.2)  1.12(22.9)  1.26(25.7)  2.33(47.6)   2.57(52.4)   3.50(71.4)
Annual            1.87(38.2) 2.02(41.2)  2.40(49.0)  2.88(58.8)  3.46(70.6)  5.10(104.1)  3.42(69.8)  3.72(75.9)  4.10(83.7)  8.17(166.7)  9.20(187.8) 11.60(236.7)
1/  Figures may not agree exactly due to rounding.
2/  P = Present, W = Future Without Project, W = Future With Project.
3/ Present figures from Dept. of Census and Statistics estimates,adjusted for under-reporting in case of major irrigation sohemes.  Future without project
assumes some expansion in area under minor irrigation schemes due to anticipated works under the decentralized budget.
4/ Figures in parenthesis are cropping intensities i.e. gross sown area  & asweddumized area.  Present intensities based on district average for 1960-77 and
adjusted for improvement in farm power availability since 1977. Future without project assumes some fu ther improvement in farm power availability.
5/ Figures in parenthesis are success rate percentages i.e. gross harvested area L gross sown area.  Present rates based on district averages
for 1960-77. No changes expected in success rates without the project.
6/ On a net harvested ac basis.  By definition, in Sri Lanka net harvested acreage is taken to be 85% of the gross harvested acreage.  Present yields
based on reported average yields for the past three years.  Figures in parenthesis are yields in tons/ac.
7/  Figures in parenthesis are production in thousand tons.



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPM4ENT PROJECT
Present and Future Coconut Area. Yields and Production
-----Wet/Semi-wet Zone ----                   ----Dry/Semi-dry Zone----
Holding Size                                  Holding Size
Total
Under 25 ac           Over 25 ac               Under 25 ac               Over 25 ac              All Categories
2/ 
P-   W       W        P     W        W        P       W      W         P          W             p P             W
6/
Coconut Area ('000 ac)
Immature Plantations3/               15     12    18         7      12     15        10      2       3        7       2      2        39     28       38
Productive Plantations 4/            90     90    90       114    108    108         38     45      45       53      58     58       295    301      301
Senile Plantations 5/                20     23    17        14      15     12         2      3       2                                36     41       31
Total                    125    125   125        135    135    135        50     50      50        60     60      60      370    370      370
Yield (nuts/ac)6/
Immature Plantations                400    400    400      500    500    500        400    400    400       400    400    400        400    500      400
Productive Plantations            1,800  2,200  2,800   2,200  2,700  3,000    1,600  2,000  2,400    2,000  2,400  2,700    2,000  2,400   2,900
Senile Plantations                  800    800    800   1,000  1.000  1,000         700    700    700                      -         900    800      900
Total                 1,500  1,800  2,200   2,000  2,300  2,500    1,300  1,900  2,200    1,800  2,300  2,600    1,700  2,000   2,400
Production (M nuts)
Immature Plantations                  6      5       7       4       6      8         4      1       1        3       1      1        17      13      17
Productive Plantations              162    198    252      251    292    324         61     90    108       106    139    157        580    686      841
Senile Plantations                   16     18      14      14      15     12         1      2       1                                31      32      27
Total                  184    221    273      269    313    344         66     93    110       109    140    158        628    731      885
1/  Figures may not agree exactly due to rounding.
2/ P = Present, W = Future Without Project, W - Future With Project.
3/ Under 7 years old. Also includes underplanted areas.
4/ In the prime age group of 7-60 years.
5/ Over 60 years old.
6/  Present acreage and yield figures based on a 1977 survey of coconut holders in the district.   Future without project assumes under-
planting at the current rate of about  4,000 ac per annum.  Also even without this project, considerable yield ilcreases  are
expected due to improved fertilizer availability as well as recovery from current low yield levels caused by adverse weather
conditions.                                                                                                                                       a



SRI LANKA
KURUNE GALA RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Input Use for Paddy Cultivation
(Per Ac)
Major Irrigation Schemes             - Minor Irrigation Schemes                             Rainfed
Maha            Yala                    Maha                 Yala               Maha                   Yala
P       ~W      P             W       P            w      P              w       P     W      w       P      W      w
Farm Labor (Man-days)
Land Preparation               12   12    12    10    10         10      12    12    12       10    10    10       12    12    12        10    10    10
Planting/Sowing                14   14    15    14    14         15      12    12    13       12    12    13       12    12    13        1.2    12    13
Crop Management                 8    9    11       8      9      11       7     8    10        7      8    10       7      8    10        7      8    10
Harvesting/Threshing           18   19    20    17    18         19      16    17    18       14    15    16       15    16    17        14    15    16
Total                 52  54      58    49    51        55      47    49    53       43    45    49       46    48    52        43    45    49
Other Inputs
2/
Land Preparation   (Rs)    250  225   200   250   225    200    250   225   200    250   225   200    250   225   200    250   225   200
Seed 3/ (Rs)                   90   90   100    90    90    100         85    85    90        85    85    90       80    80    85        80    80    85
Feril-izers  Urea (lbs)        75  100   125    60    75    100         50    70    90        40    60    80       40    60    80        40    50    60
V1    (Ibs)       75 100   125    60    75    100          50    70    90       40    60    80        40    60    80       40    50    60
Fertilizer Cost 4/.(Rs)    115  150   190    90   115    150             75   105   140       60    90   120       60    90   120        60    75    90
Agro-Chemicals (Rs)           125  150   200   100   125    150          75   100   125       50    75   100       50    75   100        50    75   100
Miscelaneous 5/                70   80   100    70    80    100          60    70    90       60    70    90       40    50    60        40    50    60
Total non-labor inputs (Rs)650  695   790   600   635    700    545   585   645    505   545   600    480   520   565    480   505   535
1/  P = Present, W = Future Without Project, W =Future With Project.
2/The reduced cost for the future reflects expected augmentation of the fagrm power supply in the district.
3/At the rate of 2 bushels/ac.
4/ Assumiing continuation of present subsidy rates.
5/ Includes interest, depreciation and crop insurance.
Ln ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     m



Table 4
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Input Use for Coconut Cultivation
(Per Ac)
Under 25 ac              Over 25 ac
Holdings                Holdings
Labor (man-days)                                  W       W         P      W      W
Maintenance of Drains and Bunds            1.5   1.5      3         2      2       3
Maintenance of Fences                      1.5   1.5      2         1      1    1.5
Weed Control                                 3      4     5         4      5       6
Pest Control                                 2      2     2         2      2       2
Manuring                                     1      2     4         2      3    4.5
Harvesting/Transporting                    4.5   5.5      6         5      6       7
Vacancy Filling & Removal of Runts         1.5   1.5      2         2      2       2
Total                          15    18    24         18     21      26
Other Inputs
Fertilizer-' (lbs)                          30    60   150       100    150    200
(Rs)                          15    30    75        50      75    100
Agro-Chesicals (Rs)                         15    20    30         20     25      30
Miscellaneous 3/  (Rs)                      30    40    50         40     50      60
Total non-labor Inputs                      60    90   155       110    15O    190
1/  P -Present,  W = Future Without Project,  W = Future With Project.
2/  Recommended coconut mixture with 10.3%N, 6.1% P205 and 16.6% K20.
3/ Includes interest on credit, depreciation and supervision.
116



ANNEX 3
Table 5
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prices for Financial and Economic Analysis
Agricultural Produce                     Financial Price         Economic Price
Paddy (Rs/  X                                 40                      65
(Rs/Ton)                            1,960                   3,185
Coconut (RstlOO nuts)                         80                     110
Cocoa (Rs/lb)                                  5                       7
Coffee (Rs/lb)                                  7                      8
Pepper (Rs/lb)                                10                      12
Farm Inputs
Fertilizers- Urea (Rs/cwt)                    90                     180
TSP (Rs/cwt)                    100                    200
MP  (Rs/cwt)                     60                    120
Land Preparation-/ (Rs/ac)                  200-250                  180
2/
Paddy Seed-  (Rs/bu)                         40-50                  65-100
Farm Labor                                    10                     4-8-/
1/  With improvement in farm power availability, prices are expected to
decline from current Rs 250 to about Rs 200 in future.
2/ Higher prices for certified seed.
3/  Rs 8 per day during peak periods corresponding to land preparation,
sowing and harvesting of the maha crop; Rs 6 per day during medium
peak periods corresponding to land preparation, sowing and harvesting
of the yala crop. Rs 4 per man-day for all other operations.
117



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets
-----------------   Wet/Semi-wet Zone ------------------------------------             ----------------------------- Dry/Semi-wet Zone ----------------------------
2.5 ac Farm                   5.0 ac Farm                12.0 ac Farm                2.5 at Farm                  5.0 ac Farm                   12.0 ac Farm
1/     -                            --' 
P        N         N _                N         N      P            W        N         P         W4        N        P        W         W4        P        W W_ 
*'rp{ed Area (ac)
Coconut                          1.0       1.0       1.0      2.5       2.5       2.5       7.0       7.0      7.0       -         -        -         1.0      1.0       1.0      5.0       5.0       5.0
Rainfed Paddy 2/
Maha                           0.5       0.5       0.5      0.9       0.9       1.0       1.6      1.6       1.8       -
Yala                           0.4       0.4       0.4      0.6       0.6       0.6       1.1       1.1      1.1       -                  -
Irrigated (Minor)
Maha                           0.4       0.4       0.5      0.4       0.4       0.5       0.8      0.8       0.9       0.4       0.4      0.5       0.8      0.8      0.9        1.2       1.2      1.3
Yala                           0.3       0.3       0.4      0.3       0.3       0.4       0.5      0.5       0.6       0.2       0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.4       0.4       0.5
Irrigated (Major)
Maha                           -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         0.9       0.9       1.0      1.3      1.3       1.4      2.1       2.1       2.3
Yala                                     -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         0.5       0.5      0.7       0.7      0.7       0.9       1.1       1.1      1.3
Chena and Home Gardens           0.5       0.5       0.5       1.0       1.0      1.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.5     1.5       1.5       3.0       3.0      3.0
Crop Production
Coconuts ('000 nuts)              1.5      1.8       2.2       3.75     4.5       5.5      10.5      12.6     15.4       -         -         -        1.3      1.9       2.2       6.5      9.5      11.0
Paddy (bushels)                  49        53        70        68       73        98        129       140       182       97       106       142      148      157       202       230      245       306
Chena and other crops (Rs.)       500       550       650       900      950    1,050    1,600    1,700    1,800          900       950    1,050    1,300   1,350    1,450    2,200    2,300    2,500
Gross Value of Production (Rs.) 3,660    4,110    5,210    6.625    7.470    9.370   15.160   17,380   21,400    4,780    5,190    6,730    8,260   9,250   11,290   16,600   19,700   23,540
Production Costs 3/
Non-labor Inputs (Rs.)            935    1,025    1,295    1,390    1,545    1,945    2,705    3,060    3,955    1,360    1,500    1,945    2,140   2,295    2,940    3,620    3,980    5,105
Total Labor Input (man days)    107         114       136       176    189         227       365      395       473       140       149       178      228      238       283      431       456       534
Of which Hired Labor(man days).           -         -           7     10          20        70        80      120       -         -           7       20       23        40       110      120       170
Cost of Hired Labor (Rs.)         -         -         -          70    100         200       700      800    1,200        -         -          70      200      230       400    1,100    1,200    1,700
Total Production Costs (Rs.)    935    1,025    1,295    1,460    1,645    2,195    3,405    3,860    5,155    1,360    1,500    2,015    2,340   2,585    3,340    4,720    5,180    6,805
5/
Net Farm Income                 2,725    3,085    3,915    5,165    5,825    7,175   11,755   13,520   16,245    3,420    3,690    4,715             5,920   6,665    7,950   11,880   14,520   16,735
1/ P = Present. N = Future Without Project.
2/ Cropping intensities are assumed to decline somewhat with increasing farm size.
3/ Per ac production costs for chena crops are assumed to average Rs 150 of non-labor inputs and 60 man-days of farm labor.
4/ Excluding cost of family labor.
5/ Inclulding imputed value of farm produce consumed at home.



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Crop Production Costs (Economics)
Average Unit Cost            Quantity Used                 Economic Cost (Rs M)
- 1/                         _
W -   W    Increment         W         W        Increment
A. Production Inputs for Paddy
Land Preparation ('000 ac)             Rs 180/ac               248    272        24          44.6     49.0          4.4
Seed ('000 bushels)                    Rs 75/bushel (W)        496    544        48          37.2     46.2          9.0
Rs 85/bushel (W)
Fertilizers Urea ('000 tons)           Rs 3,600/ton          7,400  10,550   3,150           26.6      38.0        11.4
Basal Misture ('000 tons)              Rs 3,200/ton          7,400  10,550   3,150           23.7      33.8        10.1
Agro-Chemicals                                                   -      -        -           22.8      32.6          9.8
Miscellaneous                                                    -      -        -            7.7     10.9           3.2
Labor (M man-days)
Peak Periods                       Rs 8/man-day            6.48   7.26      0.78          51.8     58.1          6.3
Moderately Peak Periods             Rs 6/manday            3.02   3.78      0.76          18.1     22.6          4.5
Slack Periods                      Rs 4/man-day            2.02   2.76      0.74           8.1     11.1          3.0
Sub-total                                            11.52  13.80       2.28          78.0     91.8         13.8
Total all Paddy Inputs                                                                   240.6    302.3         61.7
B. Production Inputs for Coconut                                                                                Say Rs 62 M
Fertilizer (Coconut Mixture)           Rs 2,200/ton          18,000  29,600   11,600         39.6      65.1         25.5
Agro-chemicals                                                  -       -        -            8.4      11.1          2.7
Miscellaneous                                                                                 8.4      10.2          1.8
Labor (M man-days)
Slack Periods                 Rs 4/man-day             7.07   9.27      2.20         28.3     37.1          8.8
Total all Coconut Inputs                                                                 84.7    123.5          38.8  z 3
Say Rs. 39 M               i z
-    IW=Future without Project, W   Future With Project.
-a



ANNEX 3
Table 8
SRI LANCA
KURU4EGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Investment                             Gross                 Incremental
Year          Costs        0 & M Costs    Incremental Benefits        Produztion Costs
Paddy     Coconut          Paddy  Coconut
-...---------    (Rs. 1) -------------------
1             52               0             0           0              3       2
2              72              0             8            0             6        4
3              54              0            16            8            15       10
4              42              0            3 9          17            28       16
5',            40              0            aO           43            40      21
6              10              4           101           68            53       27
7              13              4           133           94            62       31
8              10              4           156          119            62       33
9               8              4           156          136            62       35
10               5              4           156          145            62       37
11               4              4           156          153            62       39
12-30            0              4           156          161            62       39
13-30           0               4           156          170            62       39
Economic Rate of Return  =  30%
120



ANNEX 4
SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEV:ELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Background Papers in
Project File
A. Reports and Studies on the Economy and the Sector
1. Development in Sri Lanka: Issues and Prospects, World Bank,
March 1978
2. Agricultural Sector Survey, Republic of Sri Lanka (Vols. I-IV),
World Bank, February 1973
3. Agricult'aral Policy and Program Review, World Bank, February 1975
4. Census oe Population, Sri Lanka, Dept. of Census and Statistics
(GOSL), 1971
5. Census o:' Agriculture (3 Vols.), Dept. of Census and Statistics
(GOSLIP, 1973
6. Census oil Housing, Sri Lanka, Dept. of Census and Statistics
(GOSL:, 1971
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Project Identification Report, World Bank, 1977
2. Project Preparation Reports on various Project Components (18 vols.),
Government of Sri Lanka, March/April 1978
3. Mission Working Papers on Rural Electrification, Rural Water
Supply, Health, Education, Coconut Development, Agricultural
Credit and Agriculture Extension (7 vols.)
121



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization for Project Coordination and Management
(Kuru.-egala)                                                               (Colombo)
Distic Minister                  _   ____m Secretary, Plan Implemetasioo
Project Coordirw-l |         Government Agent                                                               rector  egona                        Projec 
tneg Committee1-' |             Kutunegala I                                                              Development                            Com   I
c Drt                                                 Project Preparation  |      l
Unit        l       l      PoetCl 
Deputy Directors   4          Chief. Project Cell  I
Accounts Unit   Planning and  l   Technical             Asst. Directors    4           (Dy. Director)
Accounts UoodiatonnniiUttSupporting Staff                                                                     Evaluation Officer I
Coordination Unit  |                Unit                                                 Dev./Statistical
Officers           2
Accountant          1
Accountant        I          Deputy Director   I            Engineer           2                                         Supporting Staff
Supportig Slaff              Asst. D,rector     I           Technicians        4
Development       2           Supporting
Of ficers                     Staff
Supporting Staff
1/ Project Coordinating Committee                                      2J Project Steering Committee
District Minister IChairmanl          (Chairman)                         Secretary, Plan Implementation                 lChai, man)
Government Agent. Kurunegala       iVice Chairman)                       Chairman Agricultural
Secretary, Plan Implementation        (Member)                             Development Authoritv                         (Men 'mr)-
Director, Regional Development            t'                             Director, Irrigation
Chief, Project Cell                       ,,                             Director, Agriculture
Regional Dev. Division                                                  Director, Highways
District Agricultural Extension                                          Director, Buildings
Officer (DAEOi                                                          Director, Minor Export Crops
Chief Engineer, Irrigation                                               Director, Education
Chief Engineer, Highways                                                 Director, Health Services
Supdt. Engineer, Buildings                                               Director. Planning Division, Ministry of
Asst. General Manager.                                                     Finance and Planning
Coconut Cultivation Board                                              Director, Animal Production and Health
District Manager, Bank of Ceylon                                         Director, Agrarian Research & Training
District Manager, People's Bank                                            Institute
Provincial Director,                                                     Director, Dev. Finance, Central Bank
Agricultural Dev. Authority                                             Director, Agrarian Services Department
District Officer, Minor Export                                           General Manager, Coconut Cultivation Board
Crops                                                                   General Manager, Ceylon Electricity Board
Deputy General Manager,                                                  Commissioner, Local Government
CeVlon Electricity Board                                                Commissioner, Cooperative Development
Asst. General Manager, National                                          General Manager, Bank of Ceylon
Water Supply and Drainage Board                                         General Manager, People's Bank
Asst. General Manager, Water                                             General Manager, Water Resources Board
Resources Board                                                         General Manager, National Water Supply &
District Livestock Officer                                                 Drainage Board
Supdt. of Health Services                                                Government Agent, Kurunegala
Deputy Director of Education                                             Project Director
Asst. Director, Agrarian Services
Asst. Commissioner, Co-op Dev.                                           Director, Regional Development                   (Mer.ber
Project Director                      (Member                                                                            Secre ary)
Secretary)
The Secretaries of the concerned Ministries and Chairm. n of
Concerned Corporations would attend meetings when
requested by the Chairman. Steering Committee
World Bank   20053
122



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RiURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULEI/
1978          1979               1980               1981               1982              1983
I temr               Year
3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd  4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th
A.  General
Appointment of Project Director                        v
Establishment of Project Coordination
and Steering Committees                               v
Board Presentation                                        v
Establishment of Project Office
and Organization
Credit Effectiveness
Preparation of Bids and Tender
Documents for Equipment (All Agencies)        _
Bid Opening and Evaluation for
Equipment (All Agencies)
Award of Contract for Equipment (All
Agencies)
Delivery of Equipment (All Agenci,s)
Hiring of Consultants
Staff Mobilization (All Agencies)
Preparation of Reporting Format for
Project Staff
Preparation of Plan for Project Evalua-
tion and Submission to IDA
Preparation of DSH
Preparation of Projects for other
Districts                                                 _    _ 
Submission to IDA of Annual Work Program                _          ___
Submission to IDA of Progress Reports                             _ J__                                   _ _ _ _ _V _     T    _ _ _ _
B.  Irrigation and Water Management
I i Major Irrigation Works Program                                50%             80%                   100%,
Investigations                                        20%         =         50%        =       81%      |  10      0|
Surveys and Designs                                        10% 1             140%_         1     80%      I            100%, r
Earthwork                                                       5%           130% - 1         70%                      TOO%, r
Desilting                                                       5       1     30%1         1     70%             90%            1(50%
Construction Control Structures                                 -                            -
Construction Drainage Sturcutres                                5            130%        _       70%             90%   |         |   |00' -
Road Surfacing                                                                                   20              7 0 _  I 
I lii) Village Irrigation Schemes Program                           icc 10             250                400      500
Investigations (No. of Schemes)                   - =       _    50                150                300   T l          400     500r
Surveys and Designs (No. of Schemes)                           1 30                100          I   I 250          1 _   350 1_       1    500i p
Earthwork iNo. of Schemes)                                     120                 100               1 250               350 |            500
Structures Rehabilitation INo. of Schemes)                                          _
Submission to IDA of
Annual Program
(iii) Water Management Program
Implementation Channel Rotation (No.                             1                  3                  5                  7             9
of Schemes)                                                    -       I
Village Irrigation Schemes INo. of                              101          I |   100                250    | |         400 |       |     500
Schemes)                                                     80% 100% 
liv) Lift Irrigation Works/linvestigations             - _       _   -                                                                         I
C.  Rural Roads Program                                      100%
Investigations                                                      50%1    100%
SurveysandrDesigns                               l                  11041    1   160%                 80%         100%I-
Construction of Drainage Structures                                               1 0f060%1      _      80%        1000%,1
Road Earthwork                                   l        l        |20%|   |   160%1         = --180%                       100%
Road Gravelling                                                                                           40%         1      190%-     I    
D.  Rural Electrification Program                                                                            100 % 6  %
1/ Cumulative percentage 1%) and/or numbers.
World Bank -20054
123



SRI LANKA
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE1-/
1978         1979              1980              1981              1982               1983
Calendar-                                                                               -
tem                    Yar         h       nda  rd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th
E.  Grounidwater Exploration Program                             1  I0%
Investlations                                          _
Resistivity Stirveys and Geohydrological                           10%             70%                1 00% p
Mapping                                                            5              50%                                 1 1%
Core Drillinig/TestvelIs                                            _   _   _      20'0%   _                    I       18%
Monitoring anrd Evaluation                                                   _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _
F.  Rural Water Supply Program                              100% I
hiventory Survey                                       _
Sturey Evaluiation aiisl Selection of                       100% IF
Well Sites                                                         5%             3!%    _   _        0%                        100%
Construction of Wells_ _ _                                                                 _                 _ _        T         T
G.  Coconut Development
i) lntercropping Program
Construction of Buildings for                                  50%    1 00% t
District Office
Land Development and Buildings                                 50%             100%
for Nurseries                                                40%              100%
Land Development for Demonstration Plots                       0.5      __ _   1.7                 3.7              1 .5     1      10.0, 
Area Intercrppped (000' ac)                                    _ _   _  _                                         - _  _
lii) Rehabilitation Program
Land Deveiopment and
Buildings for                                                20%          1   160%              100%' 
Nurseries_ _ _ _                                                               1 .0  = =          4.0  _ _         |tO         1.0     . 0
Area Replanting/Underplanting (000'ac)                         2.0       -       5.0              1 N   1  =  14.0   f.0              20.0 r
Area Contour Drains (000'ac)                _                    _              _ 2.0  10.t  =         I =                              .0
Removal of Excess Palms 1000'ac)                  _   _   _   _        T
H.  Agriculture Extension                                              10%                70%1 _      100%i      
Construction of Staff Quarters                                   100%                                 t_    _ _1
Extension of DAEO's Office_ _
1. Agriculture Input Supplies
Land Development and Buildings                                    25%                75%             100%' 
for Seed Center                                                                     30%1            55%   _  _        10%        |
Expansion of Storage Facilities                                    10%            130%1           1  60%         =       80%     100%*
Procurement and Sale of Farm Machinery                                                     _ -         _     _
J.  Agricultural Credit
Preparation of Debt InventoRies
Settlement of Old Debts
Preparationof Agro-Identity Cards
Aninual Leniding: (Rs. million)                                     7.5             112.0              17.01             ,2'..5            28.5
(I   Field Crops                                                    1.         i      gA7.    1i!0                                I 1 ,5.9
Iii) Coconut Rehabilitation                                                      - .   .               -0.           __   .1 5_ .7
(iii) Farm Equipment                                                1.6               3.0 _    __    .
(iv) Vehicles for MPCSs                                           T                       _I 
K.  Livestock Facilities                                                20%               60%         100%
Construction of Office/Clinic Building                             15%               40%          170%              1 0%
Construction of Staff Quarters                                                             _                 _
L.  Health Facilities                                                    5%     I         30%         160%I      _       90%1         100 o%
Construction of Buildings                                                           100%
Installation of Generators
M. Education Facilities Program                                   -     10%     I -       35%                     _ 6         Bu%     |   1i00-
Construction of Teachers Quarters                                  15%              140%          1    60%1__  8s1%  _                100%
Construction of Classrooms                                         10%               30%            155%                  75%         100%
Extension to Secondary Schools                                      r                      _                 _ -   -   -
1. Cumulative percentages ;%) and/or numbers, except for Agricultural Credit.
World Bank - 20055
124



79r45                                 SRI LANKA            80000                                                          8015'
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                 Buy ol Bengal
PHYSICAL FEATURES AND PRINCIPAL LAND USE                                                                                                                        )
'1s                   ~~ANURADHAPURA                                     AN,_ 
Rjbber                                                                                                            41'i-'u AL.t
- i             .:,  . . !r(AMJRADHAPURA>
_     Rubber                                                 -      3        _                                                                   rLNAUA
Forest Reserves                                                                                                                    )\    '/LOUUARUW5
Coconuts                                                                                                                                MAT -L              lOC
*   Poddy Land
|u    ]   Chena and other usage                                                                                                                       KA..Y
C    NUUWA.A. OA.'L
Agra-Cimatc Regions                                                                                                                  RATNoU
SATARA
-80001
0                  10                  20                                ~
7 45~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~7e30                                                                                                                                                      703~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  M T L
:   .  /~   ~ ~ ~~~T, reps m   has boon pro pard by the                            5 
. z                               ~~~~~~~~~~~World Bani's staff erccisirely for
.   :   r;                          ~~~~~the cotwenience of the readers of                'KEGALLA 
; . . I r~~~~~~~~~~~~he report to whkch it is attached.,J 
N  r S   r S   \  X                  p~~~~~~~he denom,netions usedf arid the                                                                                             _
:     I        \                     ~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries shown on this map                                                                                                I
\ t  \                ~~~~~~do not imply. on tho part of the                                    
.  '   1 \    . 1             ~~~~~~~WootId Banks end its affFiiates. any                                                                                                         n 
f a  g       \,  \judgotent en the legJal status of                            I                                                                               /                     <w
: .   \ t      1                  ~~~~~~~~~any territory or any endorsement                                                                                                           w 
X . 5 ,; \\,, \ ~or acceptance of such hoondeojes.                       .        ,        N.   
i; t:::ff   '\E  (W                                                    ./~~ Cm                                                                                     _'
PUTTALAM       ~          000                                                            805                                                              000






79045'                                                 80000                                                     80 '15'
SRI LANKA                                                                                     /                                       Boy  of 8r"gal
KURUNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                  >.AVUN A
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                                         VAV 
POPULATION { Popolartion Density per Square Mi e             / JI                                                                           _
Less  a  450                                                                                    ANURADHAPURA nAN4RADHAP0RA  Q
zg   2450 - 900                                                                                           UAHPR
-     Above 900                                           'e                                                                                      OL_NAU
HEALTH FACILITIES                                                                     iFT _/_l__
Genera; Hospital
A       District Hospitals                                                                                                             K
Rurrol Hasp to;s~16A.-L
o       Other HealTh Facilhties                                                            K/YA
Areas of Deficient Drinking Water SuDply                         ,', S                                                                                   A
Distr ct Bounacries
Elecrorial Bourdaties                                                                                                                                  3
INDLN OCEANr                                                                                                      ;m  
10 <X0  COOBO0v     
70015' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
This rw, hals h en  sd by th^                    COL MB
W4on/i 8asks ssarftesc  'e/y tsr \                                                        ::
the csnenle ei the r s oif                                            <                              
thees.towht vihitisa ',ued.q\\/(                                                                                                                                                           c3
The*nrnlnetoeinrs sedqh                                                                                                                                                                   n:
hews/stie shownr on this 7P 1 *_ 
do et imply onthe fpanf*t a     9/                                                                ')r 
jodgsFest en? the legs/dsts  rr                                                                    /                                                                                      Z               
wend Bank                       \td/tn ettilletes,            oo                                                    80 1  /)G
at'                                                                                                                                                                                    4 030



I



79045'                                         80'00'                                             80015
SRI LANKA                                                                                                          Bay of Senrol
KURUJNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                      A
MAJOR IRRIGATION WORKS AND                                                                                                  \7'VAVUN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                ANURADHAPURA    I    ANuRADHArURA (
132KV                                                                                                         r
66KV
33KV                                                                                         pu  LAM
I 1I1KV                                                \           i     \                      ;J_        ATALEh    
33KV lines Under Construction                                                                                              2\\ t14   .
SUBSTATIONS                                           GALGAMUWAg                            k_  Ui KEGAL LLAAJ
*  Substations
*      Grid Substations                                                                                                      A..G LA
PROPOSED WORKS
8o00                      *      Viliages to be Electrified
Major rrigation tanks Rehabililation                   Galga
Roads                                                '        PTank daa                N
-+--'--I- IIRailways                                                            Tn                                             80,
I \           --  -  ~~~~~~District Boundaries                          Amaol   !          -                               I
i: 0t          ----  ~~~~~Electorial Boundaries                                   j    fAaoeTn                        k 
7045'~~~~~~~~~1
C|KILOMTERS,
0 0  f   k               ~~~~~~MILES       {. X                  Ti        ba wa+/                                                                  "
_7aS5 g 0;8 t _ (_ _ 9n7                                                                                        Ramb.s   D5
#f~e0te4&.e   ~     ed                                                                                x' PANAGAMUWA/HGADAlPOLARIYAt A
P TTALAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,UUEAT                                                    
da    'V0' P0TC5"'8030'
ZiESL;         X\J  0              SSA KUGAMP L,-                                   D i
:: 13 :: i:: 9 iA r / t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ME OF RURAL ELECTRIFICATINCEE  
i-7055 ~~~ 0; : 0-: X i:l: i| /  /            4          j    11i           OHIR~~~~~~T'P'T' _ A                                 7  l
'                             /           :                   (i)TITT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AWELL    PELLANDENIYA .
:: F   :  :    i                                                           (ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3MAHAMUKALANY1AYA/DOHOLWOHR 
5  - if ;.;  ; 09&   COLOMBO        y                                     (SKAUDAW~' ATTE/ASWEDDUMA.
thb  w ?1tt  ff  7idby 6h6                                                                          i  T BAM UN UG E DER AtM ADA LANWATT E  
=          t~~~~forf,                                  /IHINDAGOLLA MEEGALLA & GALAPITAMULLAfO
fSe ie:tht tped  t \5            /                 |                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8  PANAGAMUWAIOGADALPOLA                < C 
*ff wtlW$*   E          /                     .                       09~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)KULIPITIYA                             ' :
t * s t   w    \i           /                               )                8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to DUNUKEWATTED
\ti           4000 roooo                                        8015 1'                                            80.3p,[






79045'                                                  8000'                                                     80015'         /
SRI LANKA
KURIJNEGALA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                    ,
TRANSPORT NETWORK                                                                                                                     VNVVARU-
:   >                 4                         ' i  j  r            t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T0IN t M.0J
\ // AN~~~~URADHAPUPA                                              ;;            "pNtjAHPr 
PROPOSED PROJECT ROADS                                                  ,,  _N/At                           PUR            )   _
Gravel Surfaced Roads                                                                                                                PT
EXISTING ROADS                                                                                                                          N-
Class A                                    > SGALGAMUWA                                                           KE,  L   A
Class B
Class C    Metfa an  Tarred
-8 00,                         -          Class C    Gravei
C ass D    Meta and farred
-          Class   D   Groivel                                                                                         _____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____
:    Mahaneriy/J       ,f              \            
R  Rlwaiys                                                                   \>,A/&i\ttj> /8030'
-  -   District Boundaries
--    Eectoral Boundaries             _.       m, )                n ola
7;30      ]             odoe              1                  20
:  . l                     ~~~~~KILOMTERS.                                                         |                             /  
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ILG  ACCE  ROAD (~                                                       woko *        cc  IIA4|. 
y 0 t; X / yS L^v K                                                                        0      KonWa                                                     7
:  i : 0   0 1 t                                     ig            /         ;t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"5  Kumb kulawa Potuwil a   YphwGaltCflweKa             l
i   ':  ' 5   : /                                   /          /   \           tj D;ul~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oiwewa Kuruwkoloisoa  Ella Ksdoesboocc
: f ; I: @ NENomDD / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g) NqolI.gor  Kosormbt o                                           G       acccwE Morscjclowa
i : 0 3  0   |  \\\$                          /      /                         ffi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kox.isane Sijjkelo  scHOaL ACCESS ROADS
-7945,                    PUTTALAM                      200 1= \s  \\t  ,                 ,               W   Ambakadartwa Mshihwma         g  AluroN2A                                     _
;    i 0 ::  \t  (\t                //                    i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  Hooter ego  Ridigonro      23 Golgononwo ldror;Yya 
i ;; 4; \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 \ .O 2 Buloalla Kohngoa                                               '26 Acrnes to Bolootookanda Schood    >         _
, d u r y  K'.                                                                                                           b .                     A    i;  '  5   ;  t X   i )  \ 0  "   1   A e h u n a w a r a   P a r a n ; m a   2 6   E r a p o l a k ;e d a   n
3  2  0 : - - i: tC >%   \!r   < / -   900  ~          ~          ~          (i        MahgskdsosMhnocniog     2  Agara Sthroo                              _~ to
i;gS  r                                          W               5ARA80                                                                        en



