CREDIT NUMBER 891 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Kurunegala Rural Development Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 891 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                    , 1979,
between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALI    REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Devel-
opment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15,
1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Bank of Ceylon" means the Bank of Ceylon, a banking
corporation established under the laws of the Borrower, or
any successor thereof;
(b) "Peoples' Bank" means the Peoples' Bank, a banking
corporation established under the laws of the Borrower, or
any successor thereof;
(c) "District of Kurunegala" means the geographical area
comprising the existing administrative District of Kurunegala
in the Borrower's territory;
(d) "Rs" means Rupees, the currency of the Borrower; and
(e) "subsidiary agreements" means the subsidiary agreements
entered into by the Borrower with, respectively, (i) the Bank
of Ceylon and (ii) the Peoples' Bank, pursuant to Section 3.07
of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of tae Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March l and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1989, and ending March 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each 'installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate financial and administrative practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain a Project Coordination Committee
and a Project Steering Committee, the memberships and terms of
reference of which shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association;
(b) appoint and maintain a Project Director having qualifi-
cations and experience and with functions and responsibilities
all satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association; and
(c) employ consultants having qualifications and experience
and upon terms and conditions of employment all satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
)i     the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the selection
of village irrigation schemes for rehabilitation under Part A
of the Project will be in accordance with criteria satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that the agri-
cultural credit under Part E of the Project shall be provided in
accordance with rules and procedures satisfactory to the Associ-
ation. To this end, the Borrower shall enter into subsidiary
agreements satisfactory to the Association with, respectively, (i)
the Bank of Ceylon and (ii) the Peoples' Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) ensure that institutional arrangements made for the
operation and maintenance of village irrigation schemes and
field channels in major tank schemes under the Project are
satisfactory to the Association;
(b) cause civil works, including irrigation works, buildings
and roads constructed and/or rehabilitated under the Project, to
be maintained in accordance with sound administrative and engi-
neering practices, and shall ensure that adequate staff are
provided for this purpose; and
(c) ensure that sufficient funds -are provided to its
various implementing departments and agencies to meet all oper-
ational, maintenance and other recurrent expenditures under the
Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that the organiza-
tional structures and arrangements and work programs for agricul-
tural extension in the District of Kurunegala are satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause:
(a) a quarterly progress report on the Project to be
prepared and furnished, not later than one month after the end of
the quarter under review, to the Association for comment;
(b) an annual (January 1 to December 31) progress report on
the Project to be prepared and furnished, not later than March 31
of the following year following the year under review, to the
Association for comment;
(c) an annual (January 1 to December 31) detailed work
program on the Project to be prepared and furnished, not later
than October 31 of the year prior to the year in which the work is
to be carried out to the Association for comment; and
(d) a detailed project evaluation plan to be prepared
and furnished, not later than December 31, 1979, to the Associ-
ation for comment.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall (a) recover a portion of the
costs of the Project, mutually agreed with the Association, such


﻿-6-
recovery to be based upon the objectives of (i) fair distribution
of the said portion of the costs amongst the Project beneficiaries
and (ii) the ability to pay of the said Project beneficiaries; and
(b) review with the Association, from time to time, the progress
of the recovery in order to ensure that the said objectives are
consistently achieved.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of its
various departments and agencies responsible for carrying out the
Project, to maintain separate records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the part or
parts of the Project for which the department or agency is
responsible.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause each of its various
departments and agencies to have the department's or agency's
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses, disbursement documents and related state-
ments) for the part or parts of the Project for which the depart-
ment or agency is responsible, for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) cause the Project Director to consolidate the said accounts
and financial statements of the said various departments and
agencies; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of the said accounts and financial
statements of its various departments and agencies for such year
as so audited; (B) the report or reports of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (C) the consolidated accounts
and financial statements prepared- by the Project Director under
paragraph (b) (ii) above; and (iv) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the said accounts and financial
statements of its various departments or agencies and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time rea3onably
request.
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall cause its various depart-
ments and agencies responsible for carrying out the Project,


﻿to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall- be consistent
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of* Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the Bank ofk
Ceylon or the Peoples' Bank shall have failed to perform any
covenant or obligation under their respective subsidiary agree-
ments with the Borrower.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, viz, the event specified in
Section 5.01 uf this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has, pursuant to Section 3.07, entered
into a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the Association, with
the Bank of Ceylon; and
(b)  the Borrower has, pursuant to Section 3.07, entered
into a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the Association, with
the Peoples' Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿(a) the subsidiary agreement entered into between the
Borrower and the Peoples' Bank pursuant to Section 3.07, has
been duly executed and is legally binding on the Borrower and the
Peoples' Bank; and
(b) the subsidiary agreement entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon pursuant to Section 3.07, has
been duly executed and is legally binding on the Borrower and
the Bank of Ceylon.
Section 6.03. The date        024,/9''   , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Sec on 2.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Plan-
ning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo,
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Cable address:                     Telex:
SECMINFIN                          1232
Colombo                            FORAID


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
r   Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of                  [
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works and            5,300,000        80%
construction
materials
(2) Field works and            1,400,000        80% of finan-
related materials                          cial assistance
under Part B of                            by the Borrower
the Project                                in excess of
amount specified
in paragraph 4
(b) below
(3) Equipment,                 3,500,000        100% of foreign
vehicles and                               expenditures; or
spares                                    .100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory; or
80% of local
expenditures
(4) Loans for crop             2,400,000        40% of loan
production under                           amounts disbursed
Part E of the                              by Peoples' Bank
Project                                    and Bank of
Ceylon in excess
of amount speci-
fied in paragraph
4 (c) below


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       'Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Loans for equip-            2,100,000        80% of loan
ment and vehicles                            amounts
under Part E of                             disbursed by
the Project                                 Peoples' Bank
and Bank of
Ceylon
(6) Technical assis-             700,000         100%
tance and consul-
tshits
(7) Unallocated                4,600,000
TOTAL      20,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and. for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borri-?r.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of anyssuch taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the


﻿- 12 -
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expen-
ditures before that date but after January 1, 1979; (b) in
respect of expenditures under Category (2) unless and until such
expenditures for the calendar year shall exceed Rsl,000,000 and
then only to cover such excess; and (c) in respect of expen-
ditures under Category (4) unless and until such expenditures for
the calendar year shall exceed Rs7,000,000 and then only to cover
such excess.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to assist the Borrower in developing
the District of Kurunegala in an integrated manner for purposes
of raising productivity, employment, incomes and living standards
of the rural population, and to evolve a replicable model of rural
development for other districts in the Borrower's territory. The
Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction and/or rehabilitation of about 9 existing major
tank irrigation schemes and about 500 village irrigation schemes,
including the construction and/or provision of about 22 mobile
pumping facilities, and improvement of water management for these
schemes.
Part B:
Rehabilitation and/or improvement of coconut lands through,
amongst others, intensive programs of replanting, underplanting
and intercropping, construction of contour drains, removal of
excess palms, and establishment of nurseries and/or demonstration
plots for coconut, cocoa, coffee and pepper.
Part C:
Strengthening of agricultural extension services through the
Training and Visit system.
Part D:
Provision and/or improvement of agricultural input supplies
and services and their coordination, including construction and
equipping of a seed processing center for paddy and other field
crops and provision of farm implements to farmers.
Part E:
Provision and/or strengthening of existing schemes for
short-term production credit for field crops, medium-term produc-
tion credit for coconut rehabilitation, medium-term credit for


﻿- 14 -
purchase of farm machinery and equipment by farmers and medium-
term credit for purchase of vehicles by multi-purpose cooperative
societies.
Part F:
Strengthening of animal disease control and veterinary
services.
Part G:
Exploration of groundwater resources.
Part H:
Construction and/or rehabilitation of about 130 miles of
gravel roads.
Part I:
Construction of about 400 dug wells.
Part J:
Electrification of about 16 rural areas.
Part K:
Provision and/or improvement of health care facilities.
Part L:
Construction of buildings and workshops, and provision of
related equipment and other facilities for education (including
vocational and technical).
Part M:
(i) Construction of buildings and quarters, and provision
of vehicles, office equipment*and other facilities for purposes
of Project coordination and management; (ii) preparation of a
District of Kurunegala statistical handbook; (iii) preparation of
plans, preliminary works and feasibility studies, including
training of staff, for similar projects in about 4 other districts
in the Borrower's territory; (iv) surveys and studies to assess


﻿- 15 -
the impact of the Project; and (v) preparation of other devel-
opment schemes for the District of Kurunegala.
*               *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
1
1


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 17 -
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the evaluated bid price of such
11w,


﻿-18-
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be carried out by force account or by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Field works may be carried out by force account.
3.   Farm inputs, equipment and vehicles under Part E of the
Project may be procured on the basis of prudent shopping in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Subject to the limit of sub-paragrah (iv) below, (i) equip-
ment for a seed processing center under Part B of the Project
may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's procedures for
such procurement satisfactory to the Association; (ii) medical and
educational equipment under Parts K and L of the Project may be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Association; (iii) (a) vehicles,
equipment and spares which are urgently needed, or which cannot be
suitably bulked for procurement under Part A of this Schedule and
which cost less than $10,000 each contract, or which are to be
purchased by the staff of the Borrower's implementing departments
and agencies under the Project, and (b) agricultural input
supplies which are to be purchased by farmers under Part D of the
Project, may be procured through prudent shopping in accordance
with   procedures satisfactory to the Association; and (iv)
provided all such purchases under subparagraphs (i), (ii) and
(iii) above, shall not in the aggregate exceed $1,200,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations


﻿-19-
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision *on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
I


﻿-20 -
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  d      a datof,
1979.
j FOR SECRETARY'


