Report No. PIC839
Project Name                     Malawi-Third Education Sector Credit (@)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       MWPA1670
Implementing Agency              Government of Malawi
Mr. Bester Kalombo, Coordinator
Education Development Management Unit
Ministry of Education
Private Bag 328
Lilongwe, Malawi
Tel: (265) 781-224
Fax: (265) 781-873
Date Prepared                    March 1997
Projected Board Date             December 1997
1.      Project Objectives. The main objective of the proposed
operation is to support the Government's plans to expand and
improve secondary education.
2.      Project Description. Government attaches high priority to
expanding secondary education in light of: i) the relatively low
progression rate from primary to conventional secondary education,
and ii) the dramatic increase in primary school enrollments since
1994 when primary school fees were abolished. To reduce secondary
education costs, Government has decided that all new schools will
be day schools. Teacher effectiveness is to be enhanced through the
introduction of school-based supervisory and teacher support
services. Government is also currently considering increasing cost-
sharing in the secondary education sub-sector.
3.      Project Context. Expansion of the secondary sub-sector is
being undertaken in the broader context of Government's overall
sector development objectives, which include giving high priority
to primary education and linking secondary school output to
opportunities for further education/training and employment
possibilities. The proposed secondary education project also builds
on the World Bank's current financial support to primary education,
through the ongoing Primary Education Project.
4.      The proposed IDA-financed operation would support expansion
and quality improvements in secondary education as follows:
5.      Provision of classrooms and related facilities. The operation
would finance construction of new secondary day schools and related
facilities (e.g., teachers houses). The new school design marks a
shift away from high-cost boarding facilities, while continuing to
ensure that the structures will be of sufficiently-high quality. In
addition, in line with Government's plan to encourage private
sector provision, it is expected that the operation would assist



GoM to develop and implement an action plan to accomplish this
complementary objective.
6.      Improvement of Quality. The project would finance the
following activities to improve the quality of conventional
secondary education: i) preparation and distribution of secondary
school textbooks, teachers' guides, and other instructional
materials in all project-financed schools; and ii) strengthening
teacher support and supervisory services through training of all
secondary school heads, deputy heads, and heads of department.
7.      Environmental Impact. The environmental category is C. The
construction of new schools will be scattered in various parts of
the country. Adequate sanitation will be provided to safeguard the
health and environmental conditions of students and the immediate
community.
8.      Project Management and Implementation. A separate project
implementation unit is not envisaged. Instead, day-to-day
management of the project will be carried out by the respective
units of the Ministry of Education, with the Ministry's Education
Development Management Unit playing a coordinating role. Management
of the civil works program would be contracted to a private
construction management firm, following a procedural manual
acceptable to IDA. The provision of textbooks and learning
materials would be undertaken by the MOE Supplies Unit.
9.      Project Financing. The scope of the project financing
requirements is now being finalized. It is currently anticipated
that IDA will contribute up to US$60 million and that parallel
financing will be sought from other sources of external finance.
Contact Point            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 11, 1997.
- 2 -



