                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 35976

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (PPFI-Q0450 IDA-30510)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.5 (US$ 48.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                    FOR A

                       SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                                  June 28, 2006




Human Development 1
Country Department 2
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 16, 2006)

                              Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MWK)
                                     MWK 1 = US$ 0.01
                               US$ 1.43783 = SDR 1

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 1 -  June 30

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDSSs   Community Day Secondary Schools
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
D.O     Development Objectives
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DEMs    Deputy Education Managers
DTED    Department of Teacher Education
EDMU    Education Management Development Unit
EMAS    Education Methods and Advisory Services
EMIS    Education Management Information System
EPFDU   Education Physical Facilities Development Unit
GABLE   Girls' Attainment in Basic Literacy Education
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GER     Gross Enrollment Ratio
HODs    Heads of Department
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Agency
IHS     Integrated Household Surveys
IPC     Internal Procurement Committee
MANEB   Malawi National Examinations Board
MSCE    Malawi School Certificate Examinations
MIE     Malawi Institute of Education
MOE     Ministry of Education
NSTED   National Strategy for Teacher Education
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PEP     Primary Education Project
PIF     Policy Investment Framework
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PTAs    Parent teacher Associations
SEMAs   Secondary Education Methods Advisors
SEP     Secondary Education Project
SU      Supplies Unit
SWAPs   Sector Wide Approaches
TRF     Textbook Revenue Fund
USAID   United States Agency for International Development

                 Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
              Country Director    Michael Baxter
               Sector Manager     Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Michael N. Mambo

                                           MALAWI
                                Secondary Education Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          31
Annex 9. MAP of Malawi - IBRD 33440                                              32

Project ID: P001670                                                  Project Name: Secondary Education Project
Team Leader: Michael N. Mambo                                        TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Secondary Education Project                              L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0450; IDA-30510
   Country/Department: MALAWI                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (95%); Central government administration (3%); Health (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Gender (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); HIV/AIDS (S); Social
                            analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/07/1997                                     Effective: 08/19/1998                08/19/1998
     Appraisal: 10/06/1997                                         MTR: 01/15/2001                  01/15/2001
      Approval: 03/24/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI/GOM
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Michael Baxter                                 Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Ruth Kagia
Team Leader at ICR:             Michael N. Mambo                               Janet L. Leno
ICR Primary Author:             Rest Barnabas Lasway


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

 Background
  IDA supported the Government of Malawi through an Investment Lending Credit in the amount of
 SDR.35.5 millions. The Credit would help the Government improve secondary education through
 implementation of the Secondary Education Project (SEP) which became effective on August 19, 1998.
 The original closing date of the Credit was June 30, 2003. However, the closing date was extended twice;
 first to June 30 2004 and then to December 31, 2005.

 The SEP was visualized within the education context and priorities of Malawi, as defined in the Country
 Assistance Strategy (CAS), Report No.15494-MAI dated March 1996. The CAS objectives focused on,
 among other things, the need to increase primary and secondary enrollment rates, and improve education
 quality. The objectives were also consistent with Malawi's growing demand for secondary education as a
 result of the free primary education launched in 1994. This increased primary education enrolment from
 1.9 million in 1994 to 3.2 million in 1995. The Integrated Household Survey (IHS2 - 2004) calculated a
 Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) of 109.5 percent in primary education in 2004.

 Furthermore, the SEP design was in line with the sector-wide Policy and Investment Framework (PIF,
 1995-2005). Among the key objectives of the PIF include increasing the Gross Enrolment Rate (GER) of
 the relevant secondary education age cohort, from 18 percent to 30 percent by 2012; reducing inequalities
 in the provision of secondary education particularly by increasing girls' participation; and improving
 quality. According to the PIF, efficiency in the provision of secondary education would be enhanced by
 implementing a policy of non-boarding schools. The Government policy also stipulates that 50 percent of
 the secondary school places be reserved for girls. It was envisaged that in the long term, educating more
 girls would help to enhance social well-being by reducing fertility; improving child health; increasing
 enrollment and performance in primary schools; and improving labor productivity and wage labor among
 the females in Malawi. This would then result into increased household incomes and reduced poverty. The
 IHS2 of 2004 shows that, there is strong link between education levels and poverty. About 59 percent of
 heads of households who had not completed primary education, were found poor. At the time the SEP was
 designed, the overall performance of secondary education in Malawi was far below what would be
 required to meet its human resources development objectives. National enrollment in 1997 was only 16
 percent of the age cohort eligible for secondary education.

 Different school types provide secondary education in Malawi. These include the Community Day
 Secondary Schools (DSSs), the conventional schools (Government, grant in aid, and private schools) and
 the open schools. Contribution to the national enrollment by each type of school is shown in Table I. The
 conventional schools had better resources and facilities compared to the CDSSs. However, the
 provisional of instructional materials to conventional schools had deteriorated. Furthermore, places in the
 conventional schools were inadequate to cater for the high demand for secondary education arising from
 rapid population growth, and the increased number of graduates from primary education. Intake to
 conventional schools was only 9, 250 in 1995, compared to a total of 36,051 in 2004. Although private
 schools had expanded, there was inadequate information on private secondary schools operating in the
 country. A regulatory framework to guide the establishment and management of these types of schools
 was also inadequate. These disparities, contributed to inequalities and uncoordinated efforts in the
 provision of quality secondary education.




                                                     - 2 -

Table I: Provision of Secondary Education by Different School Types ( EMIS 2004)



     School Type           Number of            Percentage of      Number of Schools Percentage of the
                          Students Enrolled     Students Enrolled                        Schools Types
     Public

     CDSS                         83,492                 46                 561                  58
     Government                  16,223                   9                 35                   3.5
     Boarding
     Government Day              19,828                  11                 59                    6
     Open School                  1,957                   1                 16                    2
     Grant Aided                 16,322                   9                 63                   6.5
     Private                     42,335                  24                 233                  24
     Total                       180,157                 100                967                  100



Original Objective
The objective of the project was presented differently in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD). According to the DCA, the objective of the project was to support the
Government's plan to expand and improve secondary education. The objective of the project as stated in
Annex I of the PAD, was to increase the number of students from disadvantaged groups who graduate
from public and private secondary schools with higher performance. However, presentation of the specific
objectives in the DCA and the PAD are similar. These are to: (i) expand access, by constructing 20 new
day secondary schools and related physical facilities; (ii) improve educational quality, through provision of
teaching and learning materials in all Government and grant-aided conventional secondary schools; (iii)
improve efficiency and effectiveness of the secondary education system, by strengthening school-based
management through training of methods advisors, deputy heads and heads of department in all schools,
and new heads of schools; (iv) stem the spread of HIV/AIDS among teachers and students, through
provision of training materials; (v) strengthen project implementation capacity, through technical assistance
in procurement and financial management; and (vi) support the Ministry of Education's (MOE) policy to
encourage provision of private secondary education by supporting short-term consultancy services on
private education.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Total estimated costs to implement the project were as follows:
        Total Cost:                        USD 54,689, 300
        Government Contribution:           USD 6,500,100
        IDA Contribution:                  USD 48,189,300 (equivalent to SDR 35.5)
The estimated costs would be used to finance implementation of five different components of the project
described below.

Component I - Expanding Access to Secondary Education
An amount of USD 39.8 million was earmarked to support implementation of this component which was
73 percent of the total costs. This would finance all civic works for constructing 15 day schools in rural
areas with capacity for 320 students for each school, and only five schools in urban areas with a capacity



                                                     - 3 -

for 480 students but would enroll 960 students using a double-shift system. Total enrolment in the five
urban schools would therefore, be 4,800 students and the same number for the 15 schools in the rural areas
giving a total enrolment of 9,600 students. This component would also include furniture and equipment,
construction of teachers' houses, libraries, toilet blocks, water supply, electrical installation, supply of
diesel generators, and solar equipment in places with no electricity, shade trees, paths and roads, playing
fields, and car parks. A full time technical adviser would be responsible for all preparations prior to
construction. The Education Development Management Unit (EDMU) would also hire an architectural
management firm to supervise the civil works contractors.

Component II - Provision of Instructional Materials
An amount of USD 10 million would finance this component aimed at enhancing quality of secondary
education through provision of instructional materials to the 20 SEP schools, as well as Government and
Grant-aided secondary schools. Materials to be supplied to the 20 schools would include: textbooks for all
Forms in core subjects, reference books for school libraries, basic school supplies and consumables for
science. The Government and Grant-aided secondary schools would be supplied with textbooks, school
supplies and consumables for science.

Component III - Training on School Level Management and Teacher Support
An amount of USD 1.7 million would finance development of a training course for school-based managers
who would be trained and in turn, support teachers to enhance efficiency and effectiveness in management
and teaching. Specifically, training would be provided to 100 school deputies, 450 heads of department, 40
methods advisors, 10 new heads of schools. Aspects of training to be covered would include leadership,
vision, organization, staffing, rules, discipline, gender sensitivity, HIVAIDS and relationship between the
schools and communities, financial management and procurement. Other areas would include coaching,
counseling, analyzing development needs, performance appraisal, feedback provision and modeling
behavior. The training would be delivered by a training coordinator working closely with the Methods
Advisory Unit. The coordinator would be located at the Malawi Institute of Education (MIE).

Equipment (computer, printer, fax, photocopier and furniture) would also be supplied to the training unit
located at the MIE. Other support to the MIE would include purchase of a vehicle, provision of
consultancy services, financing of workshops and school supervision costs.

Component IV - HIV/AIDS Materials Reproduction and Adoption
An allocation of USD 1.7 million would support rapid adaptation of materials from Zimbabwe for use in
teaching and learning in all secondary schools in all Forms. The use of the materials in teaching and
learning would help to: (i) raise awareness about the facts and risks of HIV/AIDS; (ii) sensitize and train
youth in reproductive health issues; and (iii) equip the youth and teachers with knowledge, skills and
attitudes to deal with issues of HIV/AIDS. The materials would also complement efforts by other
stakeholders in the fight against HIV/AIDS.

Consultants would be engaged under the supervision of the Education Methods Advisory Services (EMAS)
Unit to: (i) adapt the materials; (ii) work with the trainers in preparing modules for training of school level
managers; and (iii) disseminate the adapted materials for use in training programs and schools.

Component V- Support to Administrative Unit, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Studies
A total of USD 1.5 million would support the EDMU team comprised of the Project Director, Quantity
Surveyor, Engineer, Architect, Procurement Specialist, Financial Management Specialist and Accounting
Assistants. The Project Preparation Facility (PPF) funds would be used to finance a short term consultant
to prepare initial procurement packages.


                                                       - 4 -

A computerized financial reporting system would be installed and staff would be trained on its use.The
project would also support establishment of communication facilities among project implementers to ensure
adequate linkage among the project staff; as well as with the Ministry of Education-Planning Directorate,
Secondary Education Section, Methods Advisory Unit, Human Resources Unit, Teaching Service
Commission and Administration. Annual workshops focusing on monitoring and evaluation of the project
achievements would be held and financed by the project.

Through this component, consultancy services would be provided to conduct a study on private provision
of secondary education in Malawi. The results of the study would help the Government to establish a
policy-framework to encourage and guide private provision of secondary education.

3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory
The PDO was stated differently in the PAD and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). Baseline data
for monitoring and evaluation were also not clearly presented in the PAD. The outcome indicators
provided in the design would depend on other interventions beyond the scope of the SEP. A monitoring and
evaluation system that would be used to monitor progress and outcome of the project was not included in
the design. These limitations caused inefficiencies in assessing implementation progress and outcomes of
the project. Some of these limitations have also been pointed out in the Borrower's ICR shown in Annex
8.

However, the project objective was relevant and within the Government's priorities as stipulated in the PIF
(1995-2005) and the CAS Report No. 15494-MAI of March 1996. The project design stipulated measures
through which the project objective would be realized by implementing the five different components. Costs
and allocations for each component were also specified. Furthermore, the project design incorporated
lessons learned from the previous Primary Education Project (PEP) supported by IDA. The lessons brought
to light the crucial need to expand secondary education. The experience gained from the PEP of using small
contractors was avoided given their low capacity and failure to deliver good quality civic works. The design
of the SEP included instead, the use of private construction management firm to ensure adequate
implementation and supervision of civic works. Lessons learned from international experiences on the
importance of teacher support in enhancing better learning outcomes, through capacity building of heads
of schools and community involvement were also adopted.

Although the objective was relevant, the challenges of the sector, were much complex, and would require to
be addressed through a broader strategic framework in order to achieve the desired impact in education
development. Nevertheless, given the broader capacity challenges which faced Malawi during the design
time, it became necessary to be selective in addressing part of the crucial sector issues first. The option was
therefore, to design SEP that would contribute to Government's efforts in expanding and improving
secondary education.

Project identification and design involved Bank staff and consultants with different mixed skills in
education, economics, procurement, finance, management, architecture and operations. Implementation
arrangements for the project were also defined using the already existing EDMU, as the implementing
Agency linked to the Ministry of Education. The Secondary Education Project Steering Committee would
oversee the project implementation.



                                                     - 5 -

Readiness of the Government to implement the project was demonstrated throughout the project
identification and design. This included request by the Government for the PPF to enable it to implement
key activities to prepare the project including conducting studies and preparation of key documents. The
efforts were particularly led by the Vice President and other key Government officials at various levels.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
 The achievement of the objective is rated Moderately Satisfactory based on two key outcome indicators:
 (a) Increased percentage of the age- cohort finishing secondary education.
 (b) Increased percentage of girls completing secondary education.

 Although the output indicators were achieved, the available information is not sufficient to measure the
 outcome impact more systematically. Furthermore, outcome impact would depend on contribution of other
 interventions and not just the SEP, and would need a longer period of time to be measured beyond the
 project implementation period. Nevertheless, the PDO is still relevant to Malawi's education priorities as
 stipulated in the PIF and Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (MPRSP). The PIF specifies sector
 targets to be achieved by 2012 including for secondary education, while the MRSP includes education as
 one of the key priorities in poverty reduction. The current CAS (Report No. 25906-MAI) seeks to
 improve among other things, delivery of education services, textbooks and materials, girls education and
 addressing issues of HIV/AIDS

 According to the PAD, the ratio of students completing secondary education as a percentage of 17 years,
 was targeted to increase from 15 percent in 1997 to 26 percent in 2003. The baseline, was later revised to
 13 percent in 1997 as a result of the revision of the population of the 17 year old population cohort then
 determined as 210,000, instead of the 175, 000 that had been used initially. The value of the DO indicator
 in 2004 which was the last measured before the end of the project was 18%. Data indicated in Table II
 show that total number of students graduating from secondary education increased from 28,886 in 1997 to
 40,586 in 2004 for boys and girls. The percentage of the increase was 40.5 percent.

The pass rate for all pupils (both boys and girls) who sat the examination increased from 23.3 percent in
1997 to 50 percent in 2004. The pass rate for girls alone rose from 17 percent to 43 percent during the
same period.

The ratio of girls to total students passing rose from 25 percent in 1997 to 34 percent in 2004, showing
that the gender gap in narrowing, This is against a target of baseline of 29 percent in 1997 to 40
percent by year 2003.

   Table II: Malawi School Certificate Examination Results for Conventional and Community Day
                                              Secondary Schools

 Year             Entered                 Sat Exams                  Passed            Percentage Passed
          Boys     Girls    Total    Boys    Girls   Total   Boys     Girls   Total   Boys    Girls   total
 1997 20,535 10,553 31,088 19,030 9,856 28,886 5,049 1,692                   6,741    26.5    17.2    23.3
 1998 27,490 15,606 43,096 23,665 13,241 36,906 4,964 1,367                  6,331    21.0    10.3    17.2
 1999 29,023 16,712 45,735 25,315 14,465 39,780 4,114 1,522                  5,636    16.3    10.5    14.2
 2000 31,590 18,967 50,557 27,625 16,245 43,870 6,483 2,544                  9,027    23.5    15.7    20.6
 2001 31,783 20,244 52,027 29,208 18,333 47,541 7,930 3,074 11,004 27.2                       16.8    23.1


                                                     - 6 -

 2002 30,014 19,886 49,900 25,157 16,970 42,127 10,432 4,832 15,264 41.5                      28.5    36.2
 2003 26,158 16,703 42,861 23,523 14,899 38,422 11,502 5,302 16,804 48.9                      35.6    43.7
 2004 26,626 17,366 43,992 24,547 16,039 40,586 13,376 6,862 20,238 54.5                      42.8    49.9

Source: MANEB

Outputs of the following specific objectives contributed to the PDO achievement:

Increased Access : An additional of 9,600 places for secondary education enrollment have been created
as targeted through construction of 20 secondary schools (15 in rural and 5 in urban areas). About 6,615
students (43 percent girls and 57 percent boys) were enrolled in these schools by 2005 as indicated in
Table III. The overall national enrollment in secondary schools was 183,854 students (57 and 43 percent
boys and girls respectively) in 2005 (EMIS 2005).This implies that the contribution of the SEP schools to
the overall national enrollment in 2005 could be about 4 percent.

                              Table III Enrollment in SEP schools by 2005

                                      Girls                       Boys                       Total
          Form I                      1055                        1257                       2312
         Form II                       996                        1283                       2279
        Form III                       418                        649                        1067
        Form IV                        360                        597                         957
           Total                      2829                        3786                       6615
       Percentage                       43                         57                         100
Source: Ministry of Education Data


Improved Quality: The PAD states that "share of conventional school students attaining full MSCE
certification would increase from 58 percent to 60 percent, through availability of textbooks, instructional
materials and teacher support". Data to assess achievement of this indicator has not been available.
According to the Borrowers report in Annex 8, text books in core subjects were provided to all SEP
schools at the targeted ratio of one book/ one student. The existing 93 conventional and grant aided
schools were also supplied with textbooks and library books, science equipment and consumables
materials as targeted. In the absence of sufficient baseline information prior to supply of the materials,
assessment on the impact achieved has not been adequate enough. However, the share of students
graduating from Conventional and Community Day Secondary Schools, based on the MSCE results, has
been increasing between 1997 and 2004 as shown in Table II which is an indication that quality has been
improving. Anecdotal information indicates that the situation regarding availability of materials at school
level improved compared to previous years.

Improved Efficiency and Effectiveness:Eight modules were developed aimed at improving the skills of
teachers and school managers to effectively increase the quality of teaching and school management. The
PAD did not specify the number of managers supposed to be trained, however, Annex 4 of the Minutes of
Negotiations indicates that a total of 568 managers would be trained. About 724 managers were trained
surpassing the target. These included deputy heads of schools, new head teachers, and heads of
departments as well as the methods advisers. Training of the education methods advisers enabled them to
increase their capacity to prepare, conduct and monitor training for school-level managers. The school
managers were guided to prepare Portfolio of Work (PoW) stipulating the details for training of other



                                                    - 7 -

 teachers and providing feedback. The has proved to be a useful instrument to help school managers to be
 accountable in developing other teachers more systematically and conducting school based needs
 assessment for training. School level training of managers continue to be implemented through the
 Education Sector Support Project 1 (ESSUP1 using the modules and approaches of the SEP. The
 ESSUP1 became effective in 2005.

 Stemming the Spread of HIV/AIDS: A total of 180,000 copies of different HIV/AIDS materials were
 supplied as targeted to schools. Although an assessment on the uses and impact of the materials has not
 been undertaken, it is likely that the information will make an impact by contributing to efforts in
 awareness raising about the disease.

  Strengthening Project Management and Monitoring
 The EDMU capacity was enhanced through provision of advisory services in financial management,
 procurement. Training was conducted on a continuous basis to project staff including the Financial
 Management Specialist and Accountants, as well as the Procurement Specialist and others. Equipment
 and software was also installed at the EDMU, the MoE, and the MIE to support management and
 communication. The capacity established continue to be used in implementing the ESSP.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: Expanding Access to Secondary Education
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
This component successfully established capacity to enroll 9,600 secondary school age students by
constructing 20 day secondary schools fifteen of which are located in the rural and five in urban areas.
This has helped to expand enrollment to students from remote rural communities who would otherwise not
be able to attend secondary education. However, the created space is not being fully utilized as indicated in
the Borrower's ICR in Annex 8 Attachment I. Total enrollment in the 20 SEP schools was 6,585 students
(3,786 boys and 2,829 girls) in 2005. This is almost 69 percent of the total capacity of the SEP schools.
Initially, it was anticipated that the school capacity would be fully utilized by January 2003. This issue is
attributed to the following:

 (a)     There were delays in school construction causing the schools to be completed at different periods
 between 2002 and 2004. Six schools were completed in 2002, thirteen towards the end of 2003 and one in
 May 2004.

 (b)     In some rural schools, dropout and absenteeism has been high due to long walking distances to
 schools. Given this situation, the students have been arranging "self boarding" by renting houses near the
 schools or temporary self made huts within school premises. For some students, the walking distances
 have been more than 10 kilometers daily to and back from school. In some cases, this has been
 interrupting students' attendance, learning and completion of secondary education. Dropout has been more
 among the girls due to pregnancies and early marriages. Some parents have also been unable to afford
 school fees for their children.The need for hostels has been expressed by students, teachers and Parent
 Teacher Associations (PTAs) to ensure full utilization of the school capacity and to ensure security of the
 students particularly the girls. The Government has expressed its intention to formulate and implement a
 strategy for private provision of hostels as a step in implementing the non-boarding policy.

 (c)     Some students from communities outside the catchment areas selected to attend the SEP schools
 have been failing to take up the places due to long distances they have to travel, and the lack of
 accommodation around the schools. Because of the centralized selection system, heads of schools are not
 allowed to fill these vacancies with students from the catchment area.


                                                       - 8 -

 (d)    In some places location of the sites was also influenced by polictical interests contrary to the
 established criteria that a school be established within a catchment area of five kilometres radius serving a
 cluster of schools. As a result, some schools were constructed in places which are sparsely populated and
 far from the catchment area. Lack of school mapping information and inadequate site selection guidelines
 aggravated the matter.

 Besides issues contributing to underutilization of the created SEP places, progress in implementing this
 component was unexpectedly slow due to a range of issues including:

 (a)    Inability of the contractors, to deliver quality and timely civil works and in some places materials
 such as building bricks, and sand were not available locally. Furthermore, contractors had to deal with
 additional works that were not included in the original project design, such as construction of brick fences
 with razor wire to prevent theft and vandalism.

 (b)    Long time was spent in selecting sites, as well as resolving issues related to site boundaries. Access
 to some sites was also difficult and in some places there were inadequate water supplies. Some sites were
 water logged and rocky, making excavation works difficult. In some cases it became necessary to look for
 alternative sites, and sometimes the new identified sites were far from the intended local catchment area of
 the cluster of primary schools, thereby making access difficult for the intended students.

 (c)    There has been delays by the Ministry's Internal Procurement Committee (IPC) in reviewing and
 approving procurement documents. At the time of closing the Credit some civil works related to rectifying
 of some defaults were still to be completed.

Component II - Provision of Instructional Materials
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
 Delivery of textbooks to the SEP schools was accomplished almost at the time of closing of the IDA
 Credit in 2005. The delay was caused by cancellation of the contract of the supplier by the Government,
 due to failure to deliver the books on the dates agreed in the contract, because of a wrangle between the
 contracted supplier and book suppliers. This necessitated an extension of the project for a further one
 year. A new tender had to be processed for another supplier and a new contract was awarded in July
 2005. Besides the textbooks, other supplies delivered to the SEP schools included provision of science
 consumables, lab equipment, furniture, sports equipment, office equipment, computer hardware and
 software. However, the delivery of laboratory benches, stools and chairs had some defects. Work to
 rectify these facilities by the suppliers continued even after closing of the Credit. There was also delay in
 delivery of hazardous chemicals which suppliers failed to ship. The chemicals were finally delivered by
 closing of the Credit.

 Science equipment and consumables, textbooks and library books were supplied to the existing 93
 conventional and grant aided secondary schools around 2000. The Baseline Study for the SEP (October,
 2002) indicates that the intended instructional materials reached these schools.

 Most of the books supplied to the various schools were based on the old curriculum. For example 32
 percent of the materials supplied to the 93 conventional schools were not on the Ministry's latest approved
 text book list. This was because, procurement processing for supply of textbooks was carried out long
 before the new curriculum was finalized for use in schools. The Baseline Study for the SEP (October,
 2002) indicates that some of the books were still relevant and useful. However, some books in English and
 Chichewa literature were no longer suitable. The new curriculum came to effect in January 2000


                                                      - 9 -

 (Baseline Study for the Secondary Education Project ­ October 2002).

 Regarding the usefulness of the books, the Baseline Study has further revealed that provision of the
 materials to the 93 conventional schools has: (i) reduced the workload of teachers as they do not have to
 write notes for students on blackboards; and (ii) improved the reading culture among the students and
 teachers using the textbooks and library books. The Study also points out that, the materials contributed
 to improved performance of students in the Junior Certificate Examinations (JCE) and Malawi School
 Certificate Examinations (MSCE) results between 1999 and 2001.

 Despite these achievements, about 50 percent of those who sit for the MSCE are still failing as indicated
 in Table II. Inefficiency, and wastage in the system, is in this regard, still high. This is an indication that
 supply of textbooks and learning materials alone may not be enough to address quality enhancement
 issues. The overall improvement of quality would in this regard depend on broader quality improvement
 measures.

Component III - Training on School Level Management and Teacher Support
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
 Training course to increase the effectiveness of secondary school-based managers to enhance the quality
 of teaching and learning was developed. The course was made up of eight modules developed in 2003.
 The modules covered the following topics:

l School improvement
l Effective and efficient use of teacher and learning
l Gender issues in the classroom (improving the status of girls in secondary education)
l HIV/AIDS Awareness
l Financial Management
l Guidance and Counseling
l Classroom Management
l Training of Trainers


 The training was carried out in different phases each covering three weeks. This included close monitoring
 of the training process in order to get feedback from participants on the appropriateness of the modules. A
 teacher management and professional support consultant was hired for 18 months to coordinate the
 finalization of the modules incorporating feedback from the participants and other observed weaknesses
 obtained from the training processes. The consultant worked closely with eight Education Methods
 Advisers to deliver the modules. The functions were then taken over by the Department of Teacher
 Education (DTED) of the MoE to ensure sustainability of the training of school based managers after the
 Credit closed.

 A total of 724 managers including new Head teachers, Deputy Head Teachers and Heads of Department
 as well as Education Methods Advisors were trained. During the training sessions, participants were
 guided on how to train others. In addition, managers developed and implemented PoW describing how the
 training they had acquired was cascaded to other teachers in their schools. PoW workshops were held
 among managers from different cluster of schools to share experiences and to get further guidance on
 school based training (Report on Portfolio of Work Feedback Sessions: Ministry of Education Science
 and Technology. July 2003).

Component IV - HIV/AIDS Materials Reproduction and Adoption
ICR Rating: Satisfactory


                                                    - 10 -

Materials produced by the MoE were reviewed by different HIV/AIDs experts to ensure quality and
consistency with other materials used to train school managers on counseling and guidance. About 6,660
copies of the materials were printed and used for training teachers. Additional materials were contracted
out for printing in November 2003. The original delivery date was December 2004, however this was
delayed until late in 2005. Delivery of the materials to some schools continued even after the Credit closed.
HIV/AIDS materials from Zimbabwe were delivered in 2005 and used along with other materials to
produce 4 modules on HIV/AIDS awareness to be used for training teachers.

 Despite the delays, delivery of the 180,000 copies of materials was accomplished as targeted. However,
 the impact on the use of these materials in changing behaviors of teachers and students, has not been
 determined. Importantly, the spread of HIV/AIDS infections at national level seems to be increasing
 rather than decreasing. This re-emphasizes the need to continue educating people, particularly students,
 about the disease.

Component V - Support to Administrative Unit, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Studies:
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
In order to strengthen the EDMU, project staff were hired to support implementation of the SEP. This
included a Procurement Specialist, Financial Management Specialist, Quantity Surveyor, Engineer,
Architect, and Accounting Assistants seconded from the MoE. A Financial Advisor was also recruited for
18 months in 2001 for accounting tasks and financial management of the project. A Financial Management
Manual was produced for project implementation. The project also financed training of eight accounting
assistants seconded from the Ministry to EDMU. The project accounting system was computerized and the
Financial Management Specialist and the Accountants were trained on the use of the software package.
Nevertheless, the Financial Management Specialist left the project in August 2005, four months before the
Credit closed and had not been replaced at the time the Credit closed. This has delayed finalization of
financial management aspects of the project like payment of outstanding bills and reconciliation of the
Special Account. These tasks remained outstanding at the end of the four months grace period allowed to
Borrower to settle all outstanding payments for goods and services delivered before the Credit closed. The
Borrower has requested, and was granted, an extension of the grace period to June 30, 2006 to provide
enough time to finalize the pending work.

 All equipment, for establishing electronic mail capacity between EDMU and the MoE was procured and
 installed as planned. In addition, furniture and vehicles were also procured for the EDMU. A monitoring
 and evaluation consultant was hired in April 2002 to help strengthen the monitoring system. A Monitoring
 and Evaluation Committee composed of officials from the Directorate of Planning, Education Methods
 and Advisory Services (EMAS) and the Department of Teacher Education (DTED) was established at the
 MoE to monitor regularly progress in project implementation. However, the meetings were irregular and
 monitoring was weak.

 One of the key issues in Monitoring and Evaluation has been lack of adequate and quality data for
 assessing progress of implementation of the project. Although the EMIS was improved in the recent years
 following support provided by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), which
 enabled the Ministry to produce data for 2004 and 2005, the information still lacks sufficient baseline
 data.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                    - 11 -

Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
 The institutional development impact is Modest. The Project has contributed to infrastructure
 development which is likely to be sustained for many years and thus help to maintain the increased access
 to secondary education. The institutional impact has been great in the rural areas where infrastructure
 development similar to what the SEP has created is sometimes rare. Sustainability of the infrastructure,
 will however, depend on how fast the Government would put in place a maintenance policy to sustain the
 buildings constructed.

 School level capacity for management and quality enhancement using special modules has been
 established. The modules and the capacity building processes could be adapted for longer term use for
 school-based professional development as now included in the ESSUP1. According to the National
 Education Sector Plan (2005), capacity building of school level management is one of the key priorities in
 improving the provision of secondary education. Importantly, staff of the Ministry of Education, MIE and
 other education institutions, were involved in the school based capacity building processes. The experience
 is likely to be sustained among the education staff, and therefore, help to influence policies to strengthen
 continuous professional development at school levels.

 Capacities for education Monitoring and Evaluation have been enhanced through supply of equipment and
 training of staff at the MoE providing the basis for further improvement of the education sector
 management and information system. This has also contributed to the improvement of the EMIS, which
 was mostly supported by the USAID. Nevertheless, some of the trained members of staff have left the unit
 for posts elsewhere. This could weaken the capacity that was initially established.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There has been delays in providing counterpart funding throughout implementation and full contribution by
the Borrower was not achieved. This delayed implementation. This could have been prevented through
adequate coordination between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Government demonstrated its commitment throughout the design and implementation of the project. In
2000 the The Ministry of Education (MoE) dismissed the EDMU because of its poor performance and
recruited the current team which since then, was able to move the project forward. The Ministry also took
decision to cancel the contract of the original textbook supplier and sought an approval from the IDA to use
Limited International Bidding to ensure books were delivered before the expiry of extension of the project.
Without this deliberate decision books would not have been supplied. Furthermore MoE seconded staff
from the Ministry to work at the EDMU with the consultants to ensure adequate linkage with the EDMU
and the Ministry.

Despite these strengths, there were some weaknesses which could have been avoided as follows:

(a)      Although MoE's role in supervision and monitoring of civic works was contracted out to a
consulting Firm (MD Initiatives), supervision of the Firm by the EDMU was inadequate. As a result,



                                                     - 12 -

implementation of civil works was delayed and in some areas workmanship was of poor quality with
substantial defaults. These issues could have been prevented from the beginning by using various
Government departments and stakeholders for supervision such as the Education Physical Facilities and
Development Unit (EPFDU) and the Parent Associations and School Committees. The Steering Committee
could also have met regularly to oversee civil works implementation.

(b)      Incidences of school vandalism have been high. The situation could be minimized with deliberate
Government policy initiated by the Ministry of Education to curb the problem at its roots as well as
involvement of community stakeholders including local Police. This problem has led to high costs of
constructing fences and razors in all schools.

(c)      The Ministry of Education could also have provided enough guidance regarding school mapping,
selection of sites for school construction to include environmental assessment, distance from catchment
areas, and accessibility. This would have prevented the experienced site issues which have contributed to
delays of civil works and underutilization of school enrollment capacity.

(d)      School maintenance policies could also have been established well in advance. By the time the
Credit closed, some of the buildings already needed repair. It was not clear to the school management
where resources for maintenance would come from given the closure of the SEP Credit.

(e)      Policies for textbook and materials replacement are not yet in place. The Textbook Revolving
Fund (TRF) created from the school fees paid by students is remitted to the central Government revenue
account, instead of being retained at school level for textbook and materials replenishment, school
maintenance and other related activities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project estimated at Appraisal was USD. 54.7 million out of which the IDA would
contribute USD 48.2 which is equivalent to SDR. 35.5. At the time this ICR was prepared SDR 34.9
equivalent to 98.3 percent of IDA Credit had been disbursed. The outcome of financing of the different
components (Annex 2) were similar to the original estimates. However, there were cost inefficiencies
caused by: (i) poor quality and delays of civil works; (ii) delays in supply of instructional materials and (iii)
delays in processing procurement. This resulted into extension of the Closing date of the Credit. There is no
information that would help to determine cost effectiveness by comparing the amount of funds spent in
creating additional space for secondary education with similar interventions by the Government and other
organizations.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated Modest due to the following:

(a)      The project is still relevant to the Government's priorities of improving the provision of education
and in particular secondary education. Government expenditure on education has been on the higher side
than it used to be ten years ago. The share of GDP Government expenditure on education increased from
3.8 percent in 1993/94 to 5.3 percent in 2003/04. Share allocation for primary education in 2003/04 was
58 percent and 15 percent for secondary education. (Annual Appropriations Accounts, PER 2000, and
DFID donor disbursement Survey 2004).




                                                      - 13 -

( b)      The supply of learning, instructional and library materials as well as computer equipment has
helped to create a conducive environment for learning at school level by the students and teachers. This
could continue since it is part of the secondary education policy. However, much will depend on how soon
the Government's would establish and implement policies for (i) provision of technical supporting staff to
manage the libraries and the computers, as well as laboratories, (ii) school maintenance, and (iii) TRF
availability at school levels for continuous supply of instructional materials.

(c)       Capacities have been built among some education stakeholders managing education at school levels
for school effectiveness. The skills obtained could continue to be utilized at school levels particularly
because the SEP approach of training of secondary education managers continue to be implemented
through the ESSUP1. Furthermore, this is consistent with the Government's priorities for school
improvement as indicated in the PIF and the National Education Sector Plan (2005). However, attrition of
staff is likely, given the increased loss of life resulting from the HIV/AIDS pandemic.

( d)      Although an assessment has not been carried out regarding behavioral changes resulting from the
uses of HIV/AIDS materials supplied, information on the disease is likely to continue to be available at
school levels for teachers and students particularly because HIV/AIDS awareness is part of the school
curriculum. Awareness on the importance of girls education continue to be promoted at school and policy
levels to improve equity.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at the lending stage is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
There were some inadequacies related to the Quality at Entry particularly the observed inconsistencies in
the way the objectives were described in the DCA and the PAD. The targets, and indicators were also not
clear enough. However, Bank inputs and processes in project identification involved Bank staff with
different mixed skills. The lending instrument adopted was appropriate to the type of interventions which
would be implemented.

Although at appraisal time some decisions were made regarding the objectives, risks, and areas of focus
based on the analysis made on the sector, there was less attention on the need to establish policy guidelines
for institutional arrangements and capacities to implement the project more systematically. In this regard,
implementation challenges specific to the institutional arrangements and weak capacity disrupted smooth
implementation of the project right from the beginning. For example, during the appraisal, the need to
involve local committees and PTAs in school affairs was realized. However, it was not specified during the
appraisal how this could concretely be achieved. Similarly, the civil works could have included enacting a
policy for school maintenance. Policies to ensure continuous supply of textbooks at school level in relation
to decentralization of the TRF could also have been integrated in the design.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. Various implementation support missions and consultations with
Government and Donors were held throughout the project implementation period. Supervision reports
contained a series of concrete recommendations with Agreed Actions to guide and support progress in
implementation. The mid-term review provided a good opportunity to take stock of issues preventing
smooth implementation of the project. According to the review, progress in achieving the PDOs was


                                                        - 14 -

unsatisfactory. Measures to rectify the situation were sought after which, some progress started to be
realized in the subsequent years. Although there were implementation issues to the extent that the closing of
the project was extended twice, these were beyond the Bank's control. The Mid-term review was very
instrumental in salvaging the project after a long period of unsatisfactory performance.

The SEP was managed by five different Task Team Leaders as follows:
Lending Stage
l Janet L. Leno
Supervision Stage
l Eileen Ngwanga
l Mmantsetsa Marope
l Soren Nellemann
l Michael Mambo



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above, overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Government was highly committed in preparing the program and worked closely with the Bank team
and other stakeholders during identification, appraisal and design of the project. The commitment
demonstrated by the Vice President and other key Government officials was worthwhile.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation performance is rated Moderate Satisfactory
Although there delay in providing counterpart funding the Government was however committed throughout
project design and implementation.In spite of this commitment shown during preparation the Steering
Committee, which had overall responsibility for the oversight of the project did not meet reqularly, with the
result that the support and supervision that was necessary for the smooth implementation of the project was
inadequate. Consequently implementation of all project components was completed after two extensions
amounting to 30 months in total. TheCreidt Covenants were however complied with.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation is rated Moderately Satisfactory
Project performance was rated less than satisfactory during the mid-term review due to: (i) insufficient
management and supervision of the project including lack of basic information to monitor progress of the
project implementation; (ii) inconsistencies and slow processing of procurement documents including
delayed responses to procurement queries raised by the Bank; (iii) inadequate maintenance of project
accounts; and (iv) unexpected delays in implementation of the components particularly the civil works.
Recruitment of consultants for specific tasks was also slow.

Although implementation progress improved after the mid-term review, further delays in implementation
were experienced, which resulted into extending the closing dates of the Credit. Furthermore, by the time
the Credit closed and up to the fourth month of the grace period, reconciliation of the Special Account was
still not completed for lack of a Financial Management Specialist. At the time this ICR was prepared, the
issue was still outstanding.




                                                    - 15 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, the Overall performance of the Borrower is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The Lessons learned are presented in two main groups focusing on lessons which could be useful
for projects in general, and those which are more related to education type projects.
Projects in General
l Coherence of Project Objectives is Necessary: The need to ensure consistence of the PAD and
    DCA is important. There were inconsistencies in PAD and DCA description of the objectives and
    indicators which created difficulties in assessing achievement of project objectives.

l   Monitoring and Evaluation: A Clear Monitoring and Evaluation Framework including capacity
    building should be part of the project design. The Borrower's ICR (Annex 8) points out that baseline
    data and clear realistic indicators were lacking in the design. Further, the capacity of the implementing
    institution for adequate monitoring and evaluation, may not have sufficiently been assessed during the
    design time to integrate measures for improvement as part of the project design.

l   Project Oversight : There should be mechanisms to enforce the functioning of Oversight
    Committees. The SEP Steering and Technical Committees did not meet regularly, as a result, decisions
    took long time to be made. This reduced the speed of project implementation.

l Government `s Capacity in Supervising Contractors: Contracting work to private firms requires
    Government's capacity to effectively supervise the firms. It was expected that contracting out the
    implementation and supervision of the SEP's civil works to a Private Firm was the most efficient way.
    However, the capacity of the Government to supervise the Firm was low. This negatively affected the
    quality of the civil works and led to delays in completing the works.

Education Projects

l Quality Assurance and Standards: A framework for quality assurance in relation to standards and
    specifications need to be clear and available at school and other levels to guide implementation and
    monitoring such as in relation to civil works and different supplies. Experience in the SEP
    implementation indicates there were inconsistencies in this area, and some information for quality
    assurance was not available at school levels for use by school managers in monitoring civic works and
    related SEP activities.

l School Mapping and Site Selection: Adequate guidelines for scool mapping and site selection needs
    to be in place in all education projects with school construction components Some of the civil works
    limitation in the SEP could bave been avoided if the project design had adequately integrated guidance
    for shool mapping and site selection.

l Involvement of Stakeholders at Communities: Involvement of stakeholders within communities
    where the schools have been constructed, was insufficient. An awareness campaign about the SEP in
    the relevant communities would have helped to integrate participation of the different stakeholders in
    the implementation process such as through the School Committees, the PTAs and Civil Society
    Organizations. This should have been integrated into the design of the project.

l Coordination: Well established mechanisms for coordination should be in place in the Government



                                                     - 16 -

    ministries to ensure adequate support is provided in project implementation. The SEP was under the
    Department of Planning, however, there was inadequate coordination across the various departments in
    the Ministry of Education and other institutions. This inhibited coherent support to schools. Since the
    Government intends to adopt SWAPs in implementing education, it is important that coordination
    within the Ministry and its institutions be strengthened for joint efforts in implementing education
    strategies.

l    Teacher Supply and Management:Issues of teacher supply, development and deployment need to be
    addressed more comprehensively to ensure adequate supply and effective deployment of qualified
    teachers for primary and secondary education. Implementation of the SEP has shown that there is high
    competition for qualified teachers both for secondary and primary education. Most schools expressed
    lack of enough qualified teachers in one subject or the other. Yet, pupil teacher ratios are low, an
    indication that teacher deployment and management is weak. In some places, qualified primary school
    teachers have been posted to teach in the SEP and other secondary schools. As a result, students
    entering Form One are of poor quality and have to undergo separate orientations within the respective
    secondary schools before they continue with Form One classes. Teacher absenteeism has been another
    critical issue. Although policy to address this issue exists, its implementation is yet to be enforced.
    Moreover, the Government has initiated a Teacher Education Strategy, but this has not yet been
    finalized to help to address some of the teacher issues for the entire sector.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower has prepared its evaluation report which is included in Annex 8. The report describes its
experiences in SEP implementation, achievement of the objectives, issues encountered and lessons
learned.

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no co-financiers for this project

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information

None




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Increased Access
                                                                                      The number of students graduating in
(i) Share of student cohort finishing        26%                                      secondary education as a percentage of 17
secondary education to increase from 13% to                                           years increased from 13% in 1997 to 40.5%
26% by end of 2003.                                                                   in 2004. The increase was 67.7 % for girls.
                                                                                      Pass-rate also improved from 23.3% in 1997
                                                                                      to 50% in 2004. Passrate for girls increased
                                                                                      from 17.2 % to 43 %.

                                                                                      Secondary education students entering the
                                                                                      Malawi school certificate (MSCE) increased
                                                                                      from 31,088 to 43,992 in 2004. The increase
                                                                                      is 42%.

(ii) Girls completing secondary education to 40%                                      This has been achieved. Pass rate for girls
increase from 29% to 40% by the year 2003.                                            sitting for the MSCE examinations increased
                                                                                      from 17.2% in 1997 to 42.8% in 2004.




(iii) 9,600 new school places created.       9600                                     This was achieved. Construction of 15 day
                                                                                      secondary schools in rural areas with a
                                                                                      capacity of enrolling 320 students were
                                                                                      completed. 5 secondary schools were
                                                                                      constructed in urban areas with a capacity to
                                                                                      enroll 960 each. Total enrollment capacity
                                                                                      created 9,600 places with 50 percent each
                                                                                      for girls and boys. A total of 6585 students
                                                                                      were enrolled by 2005. Full capacity
                                                                                      utilization not yet achieved.

2. Improved Quality in Secondary Education

Textbooks in core subjects provided at ratio                                          Textbooks were supplied to all targeted
of 1 book per student.                       1.1                                      schools which includes the Government and
                                                                                      Grant Aided conventional schools, and the 20
                                                                                      SEP schools. Due to insufficient information
                                                                                      it is not concretely established if the targeted
                                                                                      book/pupil ratios were reached.

3. Improved Efficiency and Effectiveness in
Schools                                                                               Altogether 724 school heads and deputy
                                                                                      heads were trained.

(i) All (117) secondary school deputy heads  117 school deputy heads/351 school heads All the targeted heads of department were
trained.                                     of department                            trained



(ii) All (351) secondary school heads of     450
department trained.

4. Stemming the Spread of .HIV/AIDS
                                                                                      HIV/AIDS materials were adopted, printed
180,000 sets of HIV/AIDS materials                                                    and distributed to schools as targeted.
distributed to schools and in use.           180,000



5. Strengthening project implementation                                               Achieved. However, the Financial
management capacity                          4                                        Managment Specialist left the EDMU just
                                                                                      before closing of the Credit.
 EDMU staff in post.




                                                             - 18 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Increased Access                              15                            Achieved
(i) Construction of 15 rural secondary
schools (including school facilities, furniture
and equipment, library furnishings and staff
housing).


( ii) Construction of five urban secondary       5                             Achieved
schools (including school facilities, furniture
and equipment, library furnishings and staff
housing).


2. Improved Quality in Secondary Education                                     Achieved
 (i) Acquisition and distribution of textbooks in
core subjects, reference books for school
libraries, basic school supplies and
consumables for science, for the 20 SEP
schools .


Acquisition and installation of science and                                    Achieved
home economics equipment at the 20
schools constructed under Part A of the
Project.


(ii) Acquisition of textbooks, schools supplies                                Achieved
and consumables for science for other
Borrower and Grant-aided secondary schools
in the Borrower's territory.

3. Improved Efficiency and Effectiveness in
Schools


(i) Provision of technical advisory services.                                  Accomplished. A consultant was hired to
                                                                               finalize the 8 modules for school based
                                                                               training of managers-
(ii) Training of deputy heads of schools, new                                  Achieved
heads of schools, methods advisors, and
heads of departments


4. Stemming Spread of HIV/AIDS
(i) Adaptation of high-quality, behavior                                       Accomplished
change, instructional materials from
Zimbabwe, to be supplied to every secondary
school in Malawi.


ii) Reprinting of some Zimbabwe HIV/AIDS                                       Was completed
materials for immediate use in the training
programs under Part C of the Project.


Strengthening Project Implementation                                           Was accomplished
Capacity
(i) Strengthening existing procurement
capacity through advisory services.


(ii) Strengthening the financial system within                                 Was accomplished
EDMU, through the provision of technical
advisory services.




                                                            - 19 -

(iii) Installation of a computerized financial                                             Installed and training on use of software was
reporting system and training .                                                            offered to financial management and
                                                                                           accountants in EDMU



(iv) Acquisition of personal computers in                                                  Equipment was supplied and installation
EDMU, MoEST and the Teaching Service                                                       completed
Commission; and the establishment of
electronic mail capability within said offices.
(v) Acquisition of office furniture, equipment                                             Was supplied
and vehicles for EDMU.


(vi) Carrying out of workshops to assess and                                               Workshops were conducted by the MOE and
monitor progress in project implementation.                                                MIE

(viii) Refining MoEST's plans for the private   Refining MOE's plans for the private       Achieved.
provision of secondary education through the provision of secondary education through the
provision of technical advisory services.       provision of technical advisory services

1End of project




                                                                   - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Access to Secondary Education                                26.80           39.80              70
Quality of Secondary Education                                7.70           10.00              20
Efficiency and Effectiveness of Secondary Education           1.20             1.70              3
HIV/AIDS                                                      1.30             1.70              3
Support to Administrative Unit, Monitoring and                1.00             1.50              3
Evaluation, and studies

Total Baseline Cost                                          38.00           54.70
 Physical Contingencies                                       3.80
 Price Contingencies                                         12.80
                         Total Project Costs                 54.60           54.70
                  Total Financing Required                   54.60           54.70


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           27.00            1.20          0.00          0.00        28.20
                                   (26.40)          (1.20)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (27.60)
2. Goods                           11.70            3.70          0.70          0.00        16.10
                                   (11.30)          (3.70)      (0.70)          (0.00)      (15.70)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          3.30          0.00         3.30
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.10)          (0.00)      (3.10)
4. Recurrent costs                  0.00            0.00          3.00          4.00         7.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.70)          (0.00)      (1.70)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                           38.70            4.90          7.00          4.00        54.60
                                   (37.70)          (4.90)      (5.50)          (0.00)      (48.10)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           27.91            1.05         0.00           0.00       28.96
                                   (26.46)         (0.98)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (27.44)
2. Goods                           12.61            0.22         5.78           0.00       18.61
                                   (7.29)          (0.21)       (5.60)         (0.00)      (13.10)


                                                 - 21 -

   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              2.00             0.00              2.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.61)            (0.00)           (1.61)
   4. Recurrent costs                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               40.52              1.27              7.78             0.00             49.57
                                          (33.75)            (1.19)            (7.21)            (0.00)           (42.15)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Construction and              14.00        12.80                    14.00         12.80                 100.0    100.0
Equipping of secondary
schools
Provision of Teaching and      5.90         1.80                     5.90         1.80                  100.0    100.0
learning materials
Training for school based      0.30         0.90                     0.30         0.90                  100.0    100.0
managers

Support to Administrative      0.20         0.80                     0.20         0.80                  100.0    100.0
Unit, Monitoring and
Evaluation, and Studies

HIV/AIDS Materials             0.30         1.00                     0.30         1.00                  100.0    100.0
Reproduction and
Adaptation


Baseline Costs                20.70        17.40                    20.70         17.40                 100.0    100.0
Physical Contingencies         2.10         1.70                     2.10         1.70                  100.0    100.0
Price Contingencies            3.20         9.50                     3.20         9.50                  100.0    100.0
Total Project Costs           26.00        28.00                    26.00         28.00                 100.0    100.0




                                                          - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/27/1995              14     TTL & EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (4); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (3);
                                             ECONOMIST/EDUCATION
                                             PLANNER (1); TEXTBOOK
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ARCHITECT
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1); DISTANCE
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             TEACHER TRAINING
                                             SPECIALIST (1); GENDER
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/25/1997                8    TTL SNR. EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             CONSULTANT (2);
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             CONSULTANT (1); RM
                                             ECONOMIST (1); PRINCIPAL
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT ARCHITECT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/06/1997                9    TTL SNR. EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (2);
                                             CONSULTANT
                                             ARCHITECT (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT S (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST,
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PRINCIPAL EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);


 Supervision

              10/10/1998                6    TTL EDUCATION SPECIALI           S               S
                                             (1); SNR EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALI (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (2); CONSULTANT
                                             ARCHITECT (1);



                                              - 24 -

                PROCUREMENT SPEC (1)
02/13/1999    2 EDUCATOR TTL (1);              U    U
                ECONOMIST (1)
05/08/1999    4 EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);      S    S
                ECONOMIST (1); ARCHITECT
                CONSULTANT (1);
                PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                (1)
05/08/1999    6 EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);      S    S
                ARCHITECT (1);
                PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT S (1); SOCIAL
                SECTOR SPECIALI (1)
02/05/2000    5 EDUCATION CONSULANT            S    S
                (1); SENIOR ED. SPECIALIST
                (1); SOCIAL SECTOR
                SPECIALI (1);
                PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                (1); FIN MAN SPECIALIST (1)
04/07/2000    6 EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);      S    S
                ARCHITECT (1);
                PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                (1); FIN.MANAGEMENT SP.
                (1); SOCIAL SECTOR SP. (1);
                IMPLEMENTATION SP. (1)
07/27/2000    3 SR.EDUCATION SP. (1);          S    S
                CONS.IMPLEMENTATION SP
                (1); FINANCIAL MGT.SP. (1)
10/27/2000    4 SR.EDUC.SPECIALIST&TTL         S    S
                (1); FINANCIAL
                MGMT.SPECIAL (1); SOCIAL
                SECTOR SPECIALI (1);
                CONSULTANT &IMPLE.SPEC
                (1)
02/23/2001    5 SR.EDUC.SPECIALIST&TTL         U    U
                (1); CON.IMPLEMENTATION
                SP. (1); SR.PROCUREMENT
                SP. (1); FINANCIAL MGMT
                SP. (1); CONSULTANT
                ARCHITECT (1)
12/02/2001    4 SEN. EDUC. SPECIALIST (1);     U    U
                FIN. MAN. SPECIALIST (1);
                CONSULTANT, ARCHITECT
                (1); SR.OPERATIONS
                OFFICER (1)
03/27/2002    4 SENIOR EDUCATION SPECI         S    S
                (1); SENIOR OPERATIONS
                OFF. (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1);
                CONSULTANT ARCHITECT
                (1)
03/27/2002    6 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S



                - 25 -

                                           EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                           OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
                                           (1); TEACHER SPECIALIST
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1); FMS
                                           (1)
               03/27/2002              7   TTL (1); SR. EDUC.SPEC (1);        S    S
                                           SR. OPER. OFF. (1); SR. EDUC.
                                           SPEC. (1); ARCHITECT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)
               10/10/2003              5   TTL (1); CO-TTL, SR.               S    S
                                           EDUC.SPEC (1); SR.
                                           OPERATIONS OFF. (1); SR.
                                           FINAN. MAN. SPEC. (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                           (1)
               09/30/2004              3   TASK MANAGER (1); SR. FM           S    U
                                           SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                           PROCUREMENT (1)
               01/25/2005              6   TTL (1); Sr. OPERATION             S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           ARCHITECT(1); Sr. PROC.
                                           SPECIALIST(1); Sr.
                                           FINANCIAL SPE.(1); TEAM
               06/18/2005              4   ASSISTANT (1)
                                           TTL(1); OPERATIONS OFF.(1);
                                           ARCHITECT(1); TEAM
                                           ASSISTANT(1)

 ICR
               03/12/2006             1     SR. EDUCATION                     S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             239                           521
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 53.2                         145.9
  Supervision                           48.6                         100.8
  ICR
  Total                                340.8                         767.7




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of

Aide-memoires 1998-2005: World Bank Mission

Addendum NO 1 to contractor for Supply and Delivery of School Furniture to Fourteen Secondary
Schools: The Government of Malawi and SKIPO International Trading. Education Development
Management Unit March 2005

Basic study for the Secondary Education Project (SEP: Education Development Management Unit.
October 10, 2002.

Construction of 20 Day Secondary Schools: General Progress Report for Period March 2002- September
2002. Education Development Management unit

Cost, Financing and School Effectiveness in Malawi: Country Status Report. Africa Region Human
Development Working Paper Series ­ No. 78, September 2004.

Cumulative Status of Achievement of SEP Development Objectives: Education Development Management
Unit, February 2003.

Development Credit Agreement: secondary Education Project, Republic of Malawi and International
Development Association. April 17, 1998.

DFID- Annual Appropriations Accounts, PER 2000, and Donor Disbursement Survey 2004

Education Statistics 2004: Malawi Education Management Information System (EMIS).

Education Statistics 2005: Malawi Education Management Information System (EMIS)

EMAS Circular Textbook Utilization: Ministry of Education Science and Technology. October 2002.

EMAS Circular HIV/AIDS Education : Ministry of Education Science and Technology. October 2002.

Independent Procurement Review (IPR) of Projects in Malawi, Secondary Education Project: Growth
Synergies Worldwide, Global Procurement Consultants, India. July 2004

Project Appraisal Document: on a Proposed Credit In the Amount of SDR 35.5 Million (US$ 48.2
Equivalent) to the Republic of Malawi for a Secondary Education Project. Human Development 1,
Country Department 3, Africa Region. February 25, 1998.

Malawi National Education Sector Plan: Ministry of Education May 31, 2005.

Malawi EDData Survey 2002, Education data for Decision Making. National Statistics Office, Zomba
Malawi. April 2003

Mid-Term Review Mission Aide-memoire. February 12-23, 2001




                                                 - 29 -

Report on the Status of Achievement of SEP Development Objectives- Comments from Annual M&E
Workshop. Ministry of Education Science and Technology, Education Management Unit. October 2002

Report on the Training of Deputy of Deputy Head-teachers Phase3: Malawi Institute of Education,
Zomba June 2001.

Report on the Performance of Consultants and Contractors for the Design, Supervision and Construction
Management of the 20 Secondary Schools: Education Development Management Unit, April 2005.

Secondary Education Project: For the Period Ending September 30, 2001: Education Development
Management Unit.

Secondary Education Project: For the Period Ending October 29, 2002: Education Development
Management Unit

Secondary Education Project: For the Period Ending August 31, 2004: Education Development
Management Unit.

Secondary Education Project: For the Period Ending November 30, 2004: Education Development
Management Unit .

Secondary Education Project: For the Period Ending December 31, 2004: Education Development
Management Unit.

Secondary Education Project: For the Period Ending May 31, 2005: Education Development
Management Unit.

Teacher Education Strategy Malawi: Malawi Ministry of Education Science and Technology 2005




                                                - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. [Borrower's ICR]

                     GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI



                       SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT (SEP)

                                IDA CREDIT 3051 ­ MAI

                                     (1998 ­ 2005)




                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)


                          (BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION)




                                  Ministry of Education,
                                    Private Bag 328,
                                      Lilongwe 3
                                    31st March 2006




IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (icr)

Borrower's contribution


                                          - 31 -

1. Introduction
The final evaluation report on the Secondary Education Project (SEP) was prepared in fulfillment of the
Government of Malawi's (the Borrower) responsibility towards the preparation of the Project's
Implementation Completion Report (ICR. The project became effective on August 19, 1998 and ended on
31st December 2005.




Consistent with the guidelines for the ICR, the report includes an assessment of the Project objectives,
design and implementation, and an evaluation of the Borrower's and Financier's performance in the
development and implementation of the Project. Lessons learned that may be relevant for the future
projects are also included.

1.1      Project Purpose and Objectives
The SEP was designed to support Government's plan to expand and improve secondary education. The
overall development objective was to increase the number of students from disadvantaged groups who
graduate from public schools and private schools with higher performance. The specific objectives for the
Project were:
(a)      To expand access, by constructing 20 new day secondary schools, related facilities, and the
furnishing of the same;
(b)      To improve quality of secondary education through the provision of teaching and learning
materials in all government and grant aided conventional secondary schools;
(c)      To improve efficiency and effectiveness of the secondary education system, by strengthening
school based management through training of methods advisors, deputy headteachers, heads of departments
in all schools, and new headteachers;
(d)      To contribute towards stemming the spread of HIV/AIDS among teachers and students in
secondary schools through provision of training and relevant materials;
(e)      To strengthen project implementation capacity, through technical assistance in procurement and
financial management; and
(f)      To support MoE's policy to encourage private provision of secondary education, through a
short-term consultancy on private education.

1.2      Project Components

The Project had five (5) Components, viz:
a.       Expanding Access to Secondary Education
This component comprised all civil works activities related to the construction of day secondary schools.
For costing purposes it was broken down into 2 sub-components, one for construction of 15 rural
secondary schools (each with a capacity of 320 students places), the other for 5 urban schools (capacity
480, relying on double shifting, and therefore offering 960 student places). The costs included school
facilities, furniture and equipment, library furnishings, teachers housing, toilet blocks, water supply,
electrical installation, telephone installation, solar power installation, shade trees, playing fields and paths,
roads, and car parks.
b.       Instructional Materials
This component was intended to provide and distribute teaching and learning materials in both Project
financed and existing conventional secondary schools. In the new 20 schools, the Project financed:
(i)      a set of text books in the core subjects in all forms in the ratio of 1:1 in core subjects - English,
Mathematic, Biology, Chichewa, and Physical Science; and in Junior Secondary in the ratio of 1:3 in


                                                       - 32 -

History, Geography and Agriculture; and in senior secondary in the ration of 1:2 in History, Geography
and Physical Science,
(ii)    School libraries stocked with reference books, textbooks in optional subjects not covered and
supplementary readers, and
(iii)   An initial set of basic school supplies and consumables for science for SEP schools and all other
public conventional secondary schools (including 86 existing government and grant aided schools, eight
new government schools but excluding 3 financed by ADB), the project provided textbooks, school
supplies and science consumables.
There was no data in the base year on textbooks and so we could not determine the real increase in
textbook at the end o f the project

c.      Training on School Level Management and Teacher Support
This component was intended to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of secondary school-based
managers through provision of training to deputy heads of schools, new heads of schools, methods
advisors, District Education Managers, Education Division Managers, and heads of departments in
secondary schools, in all managerial and technical areas, including, leadership, vision, organization, rules,
discipline, gender-sensitivity, HIV/AIDS and the relationship between schools and communities.

Specific skills imparted included coaching, counselling, analyzing development needs, appraising
performance, giving feedback and modeling behavior.

d.      HIV/AIDS Materials Reproduction and Adaptation
This component involved the adaptation of high quality, behavioral-change instruction materials from
Zimbabwe to be put into every secondary school

e.      Support to Administrative Unit, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Studies
This component involved the engaging of technical assistance in procurement and financial management to
strengthen existing capacity within the Education Development Management Unit (EDMU). It involved the
setting up of a computerized financial reporting system and the training on the use of this system by staff
and also preparation of initial procurement packages. The Project also financed the establishment of
electronic mail capability and provision of personal computers in EDMU, the MoE Planning Department,
Secondary Education Section, Methods Advisory Unit, Human Resource Unit, the Teaching Services
Commission and MoE Principal Secretaries for secondary and higher education and finance/administration.
The Project also financed a short-term consultancy on the provision of private secondary education. This
was in line with the government's efforts to encourage and effectively regulate private provision of
secondary education. The component also financed the audits of the Project accounts, provision of office
furniture, equipment and vehicles for EDMU, carrying out workshops to assess and monitor progress in
Project implementation.

1.3     Financing
The Project was finance by a credit from IDA amounting to US$ 48.2 million and a contribution of US$
6,500,000.00 from the Government of Malawi, making a total project financing of US$ 54,700,000.00.

The respective agreements were signed on April 17, 1998 and the project became effective on August 19,
1998 and ended on 31st December 2005.

2       Quality at Entry

The Development Objective was relevant and appropriate to Malawi's needs and the specific objectives


                                                    - 33 -

were consistent with the identified needs of Malawi's education sector and with sectoral development
strategies by the Government in accordance with the Policy Investment Framework (PIF)

The project components were also consistent with the identified priorities and needs of the education
sector.

The planning of the project activities was not realistic, given the initial limited expertise in project
management and procurement at EDMU.There was no clear definition of M&E responsibility in project
management arrangements. The PAD stated that the EDMU would be responsible for project management,
but the responsibility of monitoring was not clearly defined, although it was implied that the Planning
Directorate would take responsibility of this aspect. However, the Planning Directorate's capacity to
implement a monitoring function was not assessed, nor were monitoring and evaluation mechanisms defined
per Project component ­except a requirement of bi-annual workshops.


There were no indicators for Project component 4 (development of HIV/AIDS materials) in the PAD.

Another shortcoming in the design was the lack of investigation of policy initiatives. One of the
performance indicators stated in the PAD was a measured increase in the enrolment and completion rates of
girls in secondary education. The achievement of this target was dependent on other initiatives not managed
and controlled by SEP, namely policy decision by MoE to reserve 50% of places in secondary schools for
girls and the continuation of the Girls Attainment in Basic Literacy Education Project (GABLE) that
provided bursaries for girl students (which ended in 2000). The Project design team should have
documented the possible effects of the discontinuation of GABLE Project which would mean less girls
with high enough scores to entering the secondary sub-sector. Besides, there was lack of correlation in
indicators in the PAD and DCA, both in terms of the targets to be met under Project component 3. The
PAD and the DCA also contradicted each other in terms of target audience for Project component 3. There
were inconsistencies in the design data and quantity indicators-the PAD and the DCA referred to different
numbers of school based managers to be trained.

The allocation of finances among the Project components was appropriate given the outputs defined for
each component, (1) Expanding Access to Secondary Education (US$39.8 million), (2) Instruction
Materials Provision (US$10.0 million), (3) Training on School-based Management and Teacher Support
(US$1.7million), (4) HIV/AIDS Materials Reproduction and Adaptation (US$1.7 million), (5) Support to
Administration Unit, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Studies (US$1.5 million).

Looking at how the Project was assessed in terms of (i) Economic, (ii) Fiduciary, (iii) Technical, (iv)
Institutional, (v) Social, (vi) Environmental, (vii) Participatory Approach, (viii) Sustainability, (ix) Critical
Risks, and (x) Possible Controversial Aspects, the overall quality at entry was therefore rated as
SATISFACTORY.

3. Implementation experiences

3.1 Expanding Access to Secondary Education
All the activities targeted under this component were completed. 15 rural schools and 5 urban schools were
all completed and handed over to the school administration. These schools were all furnished and have
enrolled students. The first 6 schools were opened in 2002, the next 13 in 2003, and the last one was
opened in early 2004. However, there was some work that was to be done during the defects liability
period. These works were identified during handover as defective and some defects, which came up during


                                                     - 34 -

the defects liability period. These works have been completed.

Access to secondary education has increased due to the opening of these schools. Currently the schools are
enrolling approximately 6585 students; including 2,799 girls and 3,786 boys (see enrolment figures in
attachment 1). This is because some schools are not yet in full operation since they have just been opened.
By 2007, all these schools are expected to be in full operation, with all the 9,600 school places filled.
Enrolment in these schools is on a 50/50 basis, i.e 50 percent of the places are for female students and the
remaining 50 percent for male students. Girls are given equal opportunities for learning, as demonstrated
by: (a) a balance in the responsibility given to students in class, (b) a balance in the school tasks assigned
to boys and girls, and (c) girls having increased opportunities to answer questions in class. The initial
selection was not based on merit as students were just pulled from surrounding schools to fill up the spaces
at these new schools. However, the subsequent selections were done on merit.

Enrollment in some of the SEP schools is low due to a number of factors one of which is the policy of
centralized recruitment for national schools. Some selected students fail to take up their offers and do not
report to the SEP schools. The SEP school heads are not allowed to fill the vacancies with nearby local
students which is inconsistent with the policy. The MoE is to review the policy in order to increase the
utilization of these schools.

Dropout in the schools is a big problem especially for girl students. Some of the reasons for dropout
include pregnancies, early marriages, lack of school fees, lack of interest and long distances to schools.
Catchment area for most of these schools is also a problem. Some students have to travel for more than 10
Km to and from school. This is also increasing cases of drop out. Students are renting near the schools so
they do not have to travel long distances. Since these places are not supervised by anyone, students are
likely to be engaged in bad behavior. There is a general outcry for hostel facilities in these schools to help
reduce some of these problems.

Vandalism is another worrying issue at the schools. About 10 of these schools have already been broken
into. The schools do not have enough security personnel making them more prone to theft. Some
communities around the schools have employed watchmen to assist with security at the schools.
Government is yet to employ more watchmen to help reduce the security problems. Community leaders
have also been engaged to sensitize their people to stop vandalizing the schools. There has been a positive
response so far, as a sense of ownership is being instilled in people around the schools.

Maintenance of school facilities is another issue that needs immediate attention in view of the absence of
maintenance policy. Schools have no proper direction on maintenance issues. In addition, school managers
have poor knowledge on maintenance and the schools do not budget for maintenance. MoE was supposed
to have put in place a school maintenance policy at closing of 2005. The World Bank had agreed to assist
with technical expertise in the production of the policy. Very little progress has been made to that effect.
However, MoE and MoF are discussing the possibility of schools retaining fees at the school to help in
maintenance.

The rating for this component was SATISFACTORY.

3.2 Provision of Instructional Materials
Teaching and learning materials were supplied to the schools through local and international suppliers,
which were engaged through open tenders. The materials were purchased in accordance with World Bank
procurement guidelines and procedures. A total of 121 schools, including 20 SEP schools, were supplied
with teaching and learning materials. The schools have enough textbooks in the ratios of 1:1 for core


                                                    - 35 -

subjects and well-stocked libraries with reference materials. These books are being kept in the school
libraries and some are let out to students on short loan basis. Schools were encouraged to have the books
well recorded, categorized, and coded for proper storage and accountability. The major problem in most of
the schools is the lack of a school librarian who would be responsible to handle library issues. Schools are
using teacher librarians who are not well conversant with some library procedures and they also complain
of a huge workload since they have to combine library work with their teaching duties. The Ministry will
soon engage librarians who are currently being trained at Mzuzu University

Apart from textbooks, schools were also provided with science consumables and laboratory equipment. The
science consumables have been very instrumental in the teaching/learning process as students are able to do
the required experiments. An initial set of basic school supplies for the new schools was also provided.
These included office supplies, electrical equipment, office sundries, classroom materials and sports
equipment. However, some of the supplies made were of poor quality (not durable and inappropriate).
There was inconsistency in supply as some schools got an oversupply of certain items such as books &
chemicals and others undersupply of the same items.

Based on the results provided by Malawi National Examination Board (MANEB), the overall pass rate for
Malawi Secondary Education Certificate Examination (MSCE) steadily improved, from 16% in 1998 to
49% in 2004. The improvement for girls is particularly encouraging, from about 10% in 1998 to about
43% in 2004 (See Examination Results- Attachment 2). The improvement is mainly attributed to the
government campaign to eliminate cheating in examination since 2001. By doing so, students have learnt
to study hard and read textbooks to pass the examination.          Other factors that had impact on the
improvement could be: (i) provision of more textbooks through SEP, (ii) training through SEP for
school-based managers including headteachers, deputy headteachers and method advisors, and (iii)
improved teaching quality by upgrading primary school teachers from certificate to diploma level and
allowing them to teach in the Community Day Secondary Schools which the majority of secondary students
attend. The Figure 1 below shows the increase in the percentage pass rates of girls during the period shown.



                   Figure 1




The problem at hand now in these SEP schools is shortage of teachers. Each rural school (with capacity of



                                                   - 36 -

320 students) have 1 head teacher, 1 deputy headteacher and 16 teachers. The urban schools (with capacity
of 480 students and double shift making a total of 960 students) have each 1 headteacher, 2 deputy
headteachers and 48 teachers. Most of the rural schools do not have enough teachers due to inadequate
accommodation within the school campus. Most teachers who are posted to these rural schools go back to
town when they do not find a house on campus since they cannot get decent accommodation in the villages
surrounding the schools. The whole purpose of improving the quality of education is therefore being
defeated by this lack of teaching personnel .

The rating for this component is SATISFACTORY.

3.3 Training of School Level Management and Teacher Support
Eight training modules were developed for use in the training course for school-based managers and method
advisors. The courses aimed at increasing the effectiveness of secondary school based managers in
improving the skills of teachers, and increasing the quality of teaching and learning through the provision of
technical advisory services. The modules covered the following topics: School improvement, classroom
organization, training of trainers, gender awareness, financial management, guidance and counseling,
effective and efficient use of instructional materials and equipment. Technical advisory services were
provided to support the development of the modules. The modules were used extensively in the trainings
and were reproduced for distribution to the schools. 124 Deputy Headteachers, 450 Heads of Departments,
105 head teachers 40 SEMA's, and 36 DEMs and EDMs underwent this training, giving a total of 755
people. Trainees indicated that the training was relevant and they seem to be using the knowledge from the
training as it is being evidenced in the way they are managing their schools, through: (i) improvement in
school discipline with less absenteeism and improved classroom practice, (ii) making better use of available
resources within the school, as demonstrated through improved classroom practice, (iii) improvement in
financial management at each school, with proper revenue and expenditure control practices in place (most
of the schools are being made cost centers), the headteachers and their deputies have also undergone further
training in the area of financial management for the same purpose (iv) showing signs of improved record
keeping, with all required administrative records, pupil records and teacher records being kept, maintained
and updated by the school, (v) active community involvement is being observed at the school, with each
school having a community-based representative body (PTA and SMC), (vi) a visible and demonstratable
reduction in the preferential treatment of a particular sex within the classroom environment in all
co-educational secondary schools, and (vii) revival of the guidance and counseling periods assigned to the
timetable, and evidence of guidance and counseling services are visible at the school.

The rating for this component was HIGHLY SATISFACTORY

3.4 HIV/AIDS Material Reproduction and Adaptation
HIV/AIDS materials were reproduced for training school managers and for students and teachers' use in
schools. The materials have since been distributed to all secondary schools in the last quarter of the final
Project year and are in use. There were some delays in proofreading and adaptation of the initial materials
by MoE. However, all 180,000 sets of these materials were delivered and distributed..

HIV/AIDS is being offered as a stand-alone subject or it is covered in Life Skills subject and in all the
other subjects where teachers bring issues of HIV/AIDS. Life Skills and HIV/AIDS education are allocated
at least two periods a week in most of the schools. The major problem is the lack of trained teachers to
utilize HIV/AIDS in the schools. Most of the teachers who are responsible for this subject indicated that
they were neither trained nor oriented on how to use these materials. The use of these materials is not
restricted to the classroom only but also in extra-curricular activities especially the clubs like AIDS TOTO
club.


                                                    - 37 -

The rating for this component was MARGINALLY SATISFACTORY




3.5 Support to Administrative Unit, M&E and Studies

3.5.1 Administrative Support
 Acquisition of personal computers in EDMU, MoE and the Teaching Services Commission and the
establishment of electronic mail capability within the said offices were done. EDMU office equipment,
vehicles and furniture were also procured.




3.5.2 Monitoring and Evaluation
An M& E specialist was engaged in March 2002 and the specialist revised and monitored the project
performance and progress/impact indicators.
The specialist also development a quality management system for SEP. This quality management system
aimed first at defining the quality standard by developing a range of qualitative indicators for SEP. it
further defined a number of data collection, capture and analysis processes to govern the data management
process in SEP. Finally it also served the purpose of a consolidated toolkit by providing all standard
monitoring and evaluation forms that would be used in SEP for the remainder of the project, including the
SEMA supervision form, the pre and post test that persons involved in the school management training, and
school opening guidelines which were used during the handover of the schools from contractors to school
heads.

There was also a SEP M & E subcommittee that was established. The committee was responsible for
overseeing and guiding all M& E activities in SEP and report on these to the monthly project steering
committee. Membership to the committee comprised of Directors of Planning, Basic Education, DTED,
EMAS, Secondary Education, Principal of Domasi College and Division Manager for Central West
Division. However, attendance to meetings for the committee was weak especially in 2003 as directors
were represented by other people instead of attending the meetings themselves. This made reporting and
real progress during this meeting difficult and challenging.

Other M& E activities included the development of guidelines for the implementation of an M& E unit at
MoE and the development of the school registration system for secondary schools to ensure that education
licensing at MoE takes place in a regulated and orderly manner and that an updated master list of
secondary schools contains the list of the latest information.

3.5.3 Financial Management ­Computerized Accounting Software
The installation and commissioning of the FINPRO/TOMPRO accounting software was completed in
October 2002. Some Project staff members were trained in the use of the software package. The system has
not been used by Project staff due to late institutionalization when the Project was initially about to close in
2003.

3.5.4 Studies
Several officers from the MoE and EDMU were trained in various areas such as accounting and
procurement in order to enhance capacity and improve performance in implementation. (attachment no. 4)

3.5.5   Private Provision of Secondary Education


                                                     - 38 -

A consultant financed by the credit was assigned to assist the Directorate of Secondary Education in
formulating suitable guidelines to register private schools and preparing recommendations for formal
working arrangements between the MoE and Private Schools Association of Malawi (PRISAM).

The rating for this component was SATISFACTORY.

4.0 BORROWER'S Performance
The Government of Malawi (Borrower) fulfilled most of its responsibilities in a satisfactory manner as
reported in most Aide Memoires by the World Bank Missions. The MoE were directly involved in
evaluation of the Project on a regular basis through Steering Committee meetings (Chaired by the Secretary
for Education).

However, there were delays in some areas that affected timely Project implementation. For instance,
identification and approval of sites, allocation of poor land sites for schools and accessing some sites
during rainy period proved difficult on the Project staff. Delays by Government Contracting Unit in
granting approvals for hiring of suppliers, consultants and contractors to carry out various activities of the
Project affected the progress of the Project.

The Ministry of Finance (MoF) also fulfilled its responsibilities of providing 5% counter part funding to
the Project. However, funding by MoF was marred by delays and shortfalls, which grossly affected project
implementation, as civil works contractors, suppliers, and consultants could not be paid on time attracting
interest charges. After discussions with the World Bank it was established that previous counterpart fund
shortfalls and delays were a result of failure by EDMU team to submit necessary documents to secure
funds from the Treasury. Despite a mutually drawn up schedule of counterpart funds and assurance by
Secretary of Treasury to provide adequate counterpart funds, the situation did not improve. This was
critical if the Project was to keep up the pace of implementation and to ensure completion of Project
activities before credit closing on December 31, 2005.

The Ministry of Education fulfilled its responsibility to ensure that the Project implementation was on
course. However, there were a few areas that delayed the implementation of the Project, for example, lack
of adequate financial and procurement management capacities proved costly in terms of time, forcing MoE
to engage financial and procurement specialists for the Project. MoE provided financial management
training to Project staff to improve the overall performance. Other critical areas of the Project that needed
special attention were construction, supervision and monitoring of the consultants, M&E and HIV/AIDS. It
was, therefore, essential to have specialist consultants with the permission of the World Bank. Hence,
Senior Architect, Senior Engineer, Quantity Surveyor/Junior Engineer, Senior Secretary and others were
hired by use of individual consultants method of selection. By the end of the Project the Unit had developed
its expertise, as evidenced in its ability to successfully accelerate Project implementation in the second half
of the Project cycle while managing another new project.

The other challenge that MoE faced was the teacher deployment in schools. It was the Project intention that
SEP schools be provided with 50/50% serving and newly qualified teachers and in required numbers and
subject combinations. However, this has been a great challenge to MoE because almost all SEP schools
indicated serious understaffing for both academic and support staff. Also worth noting is the disparity
between rural and urban SEP schools. Rural schools are more affected than urban schools, as teacher
retention in rural areas is poor. MoE must, therefore, find both short and long term solutions to curb the
existing disparities through a careful deliberate policy.

Another challenge that MoE faced during the Project life was inability to retain trained staff at EDMU and


                                                      - 39 -

MoE, which was also observed to significantly affect Project implementation.

5.0 Financier's Performance
The Financier fulfilled most of its responsibility in a timely manner and was very flexible in its approach to
Project implementation. For example, the Financier on several occasions issued "No objection" to the
Borrower's request on (i) construction of brick fence reinforced with razor wire for all 20 schools, which
was not in original design, (ii) minor addendum civil works (improvement to roads, drainages) and (iii)
modifications to original procurement plan among other things.

The Financier showed great commitment in the monitoring of Project implementation with the planned
bi-annual supervision missions visits being done on schedule. This proved to be a very useful component of
Project implementation and is certainly one of the major factors that influenced the ability of the Project to
achieve as much as it has. Aide Memoires prepared at the end of each visit proved very useful to the
Borrower because it identified issues to be accomplished and also provided advice where needed to ensure
smooth Project implementation.

However, there were times when the financier delayed in remitting funds to EDMU and issuing of "No
Objections" to the borrower. This also affected the progress of the project. The overall performance of the
Financier was SATISFACTORY

6.0 Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
A number of factors affected the Project implementation and outcome.

6.1 Those within the control of the Borrower included:
(a) Site selection; since there was no any school mapping carried out, it was difficult to identify suitable
sites for the schools, which were meant to be spread throughout the country. The method used for site
selection initially entrusted with the Education Division who in turn delegated to the local authorities was
further observed to have been influence by politicians and the Financier. The Bank wanted vacant land that
would not attract resettlement compensations. This mode of selection resulted in SEP being given mostly
very poor and costly sites for construction in terms of terrain, soil type and geological conditions. And most
of the rural schools experience problems of feeder schools registering low enrolment numbers.

(b) Delays in processing counterpart funding by the Ministry of Finance; this affected the Project in such
a way that most contractors levied interest on most of late payments, which had to be paid by the Borrower.

(c ) Delay in granting of approvals for hiring of most contractors, consultants, and suppliers by the then
Government Contracting Unit for a good part of the Project period.

(d) Lack of capacity at MoE to monitor the Project: there was no M&E Unit in the MoE to monitor the
Project's performance throughout the project life, coupled with understaffing at the Planning Department in
the MoE proved it difficult to undertake some of the activities timely.

(e) Lack of key staff in finance and procurement coupled with late placement of some technical personnel
at EDMU for the first 4 years of the Project witnessed slow to no progress in implementation and
disbursement, and as a result the Project had to be extended twice with the first revised close date of 2004
then second revised date of 31 December 2005.

6.2 Those beyond control of Borrower:
(a) Delay in the supply of books to the schools due to failure of the initial supplier to fulfill the contract,


                                                      - 40 -

which saw the contract terminated by Government. Then the assignment had to be re-tendered through
Limited International Bidding and another supplier was identified who fulfilled his contract and delivered
all the required books. As a result of this delay the Credit was extended for one (1) year from 2004 to
2005.

(b) During the first half of the period after midterm review, the Project experienced some difficulty in
implementation of the procurement activities due to delays in getting some of the "No Objections" from the
World Bank.

7.0 Key Lessons Learned

7.1 The key lessons learned during the preparation were:
(a)      Need for the project implementation schedule to be based on the capacity of the implementing
institution, for example, monitoring of the implementation was a problem due to lack of M&E capacity in
MoE,
(b)      Need to clearly come up with baseline data and realistic indicators during the design of the Project,
(c)      Need for consistence of the two important documents, the DCA and the PAD in terms of key
elements of the Project.

7.2 The keys lessons learned during the Project implementation were:

(a)      Need to strictly check the compliance with the specifications and quantities of goods supplied by
suppliers once delivered to ascertain standards and controls;
(b)      Need for wider consultations with relevant stakeholders in coming up with specifications for goods,
works and services and ensure that descriptions are systematic and clear;
(c)      Need for proper school mapping to identify catchment area for secondary schools in as some
schools do not have enough feeder primary schools,
(d)      Need for free flow of information amongst all stakeholders to facilitate adherence to the
implementation plans by all Project players,
(e)      The necessity for strong quality assurance provisions in civil works contracts- as some of the
contractors did substandard work in some schools facilities, and
(f)      Need for proper record keeping/filling system to ensure sustainability and follow-ups to various
Project activities.



                                             ENROLMENT                                            TOTAL
SCHOO            FORM 1              FORM 2               FORM 3                FORM 4
L NAME
              BOYS     GIRLS      BOYS      GIRLS     BOYS      GIRLS      BOYS       GIRLS      BOYS     GI
                                                                                                          RL
                                                                                                           S
Chinsapo          109       121       137       149        112          90       119         87       477 447
Mkanda             47        42         42       42         56          12        57         24       202 120
Nsaru              44        44         45       45         45          41        40         34       174 164
Kangs ma           29        28         46       28         50          14                            125 70
Ndirande          120        74       120        70        108          71        61         70       409 285
Hill
Bangwe            116       110       114        81                                                   230 161



                                                    - 41 -

Chapanan         57       18         43        17                                         100 35
ga
Chiwale          38       36         31        24        30      15        20      12     119 87
(Neno)
Namikasi         40       39         43        36        43      34        49      20     175 129
(Lirangw
e)
Lozi             34       28         38        38        22       9        13       9     107 84
Byazi            41       39         40        40        34      26        45      35     160 140
Santhe           65       58         57        57        59      58        40      26     221 199
Kasakula         46       10         50        20        12       7        24       6     132 43
Malimba          53       41         58        22                                         111 63
Malindi        100       101        105        82        15       7        46      13     266 203
(Mpunga)
Gawani           48       43         58        36                                         106 79
Michesi          53       45         63        38                                         116 83
(Chiringa
)
Thekerani        66       40         40        31        42      24        35       1     183 96
Luwinga        107       102        107      106         21      10        48      23     283 241
Mzenga           44       36         46        34                                          90 70
              1257      1055       1283      996        649     418       597     360    3786 279
                                                                                                9



ATTACHMENT 2
Sample Pass rate in SEP schools in 2004



 SCH                         JC                                           MSCE
OOL       SAT         PASSED         PASS RATE             SAT       PASSED       PASSE RATE
NAM      M      F     M       F     M      F     BOT     M     F     M       F   M     F   BOT
  E                                                H                                        H
                                                SEXE                                       SEXE
                                                   S                                         S
CHIN    142 136     126    110    88.7   80.9   84.9    93   41    52     4    55.9  34.1 49.3
SAPO
LOZI    33 31       21     8      63.6   25.8   45.3    27   11    9      1    33.3  9.1  26.3
THEK    53 36       43     22     81.1   61.1   73.0    32   9     16     1    50.0  11.1 41.5
ERAN
I
        228 203     190    140    83.3   69.0   76.6    152  61    77     16   50.7  26.2 43.7

NB These are the only schools on SEP schools list with JCE and MSCE results

                  Examination Results for Conventional Secondary Schools and CDSSs




                                                 - 42 -

YEAR          Junior Certificate Examination                   Malawi School Certificate
          SAT        PASSED        PASSRATE (%)             SAT    PASSED        PASSRATE
       Male Femal Male Femal Male Femal Both Male Femal Male Femal Male Femal Both
              e              e             e                  e           e             e
1997 33,88418,58729,37213,876 87          75      82 15,123 7,570 3,993 1,228  26      16  23
1998 36,71622,27531,01716,033 85          72      80 19,329 9,886 3,760 882    19      9   16
1999 40,13923,72437,06520,347 92          86      90 19,97810,520 2,322 970    15      9   13
2000 36,89220,88631,74815,721 86          73      82 21,10710,965 4,302 1,376  20      13  18
2001 31,75520,33723,20822,065 73          59      87 22,33312,686 5,314 1,675  24      13  20
2002 25,13819,13119,14911,157 76          58      68 17,50410,412 6,601 2,568  38      25  33
2003 24,41618,01319,35011,164 79          62      72 16,552 9,087 8,243 3,324  50      37  45
2004 27,52519,82421,22012,089 77          62      70 17,304 9,895 9,138 4,149  53      42  49
2005 29,51521,30923,17012,611 79          59      70

Source: MANEB

ATTACHMENT NO.3
Number of Teachers Per School by Qualification and Sex
SOURCE: 2005 ANNUAL SCHOOL CENSUS




SCH JC          MSCE         DIP. IN     DIP. GEN DEG. IN      DEG. GEN.UN. Cert.     TOTAL
OOL                          ED.                      ED
NAM M     F     M      F     M     F     M     F      M   F    M     F    M    F      M   F
E
CHI             1            10    6     3     1      8   3    4     3
NSA
PO
MKA                          8     1                  2
NDA
NSA             1            3     2     2            2        2
RU
KAN'                         3     3     3            2        2          1
GOM
A
NDI                          13    5     2     2      6   1    3     2
RAN
DE
HILL
BAN                          6     8                  4   1
GWE
CHIP                         6     2                  3
ANA
NGA



                                                - 43 -

CHI           2   3           3     1
WAL
E
(NEN
O)
NAM           7   1  1           1  1
IKAS
I
(LIR
ANG
WE)
LOZI          6   2           1  1  1
BZY           6   2           3     2
AZI
SAN           5   1  3              2
THE
KAS         1 4   4           1     1
AKU
LA
MAL           5   1  1        4  1
IMB
A
MAL           6   4           6  5  3  1
INDI
(MP
UNG
A)
GAW1     3    3   1           2     2         11  1
ANI
MIC           6               3     1         10  0
HESI
(CHI
RIN
GA)
THE      1    6               1               8   0
KER
ANI
LUW           2   7           9  2  3  3      14  12
ING
A
MZE           6   1                 1    1    8   1
NGA
TOT 1  0 6  1 113 51 15 3     60 15 29 9 2  0 226 79
AL




                        - 44 -

ATTACHMENT NO. 4

TECHNICAL PERSONNEL TRAINED UNDER SEP FOR THE LIFETIME OF THE PROJECT




SECTION                COURSE DESCRIPTION              NUMBER OF OFFICERS
                                                       ATTENDED
EDMU                   Advanced Goods and Equipment    3
                       Procurement
                       Advanced Works Procurement and 3
                       Selection of Consultants
                       Managing Development Projects   1
                       Record Management/Information   1
                       Technology
                       Development Management for      2
                       Executive Assistants
                       IT Program for Executive        1
                       Assistants
                       Financial Management of Donor   1
                       Funded Projects
                       Financial Management in Public  1
                       Sector
                       Subtotal for EDMU staff trained 13

MOE                    Data-base Design Implementation 3
                       and Management
                       Information and Communication   3
                       for Executive Assistants
                       Human Resources & Payroll       2
                       Management
                       Advanced Program on             1
                       Management Training
                       Financial Management in the     3
                       Public sector
                       Human Resources Management      3
                       and Development
                       Budgeting and Budget Control    2
                       Records Management              3
                       Result Oriented Management      6
                       Road Fleet Operation            1
                       Managing the Internal Audit     5
                       Function
                       Managing the Training           1
                       Leadership Development and      5
                       Change Management




                                     - 45 -

Subtotal for MOE Staff trained 30
Grand Total                    43




             - 46 -

                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33440

                      32°E                                                         34°E                                                         36°E




                                                                             To

                                         To             Songwe          Mbeya             TANZANIA
                                      Tunduma
                                                            Chitipa
                                                                                                                                                    MALAWI
                                                                                    Karonga

10°S                                                          Chisenga                                                                                               10°S
                                                                              KARONGA
                                                      To         CHITIPA
                                                   Muyombe
                                                                     Nykia
                                                                   (2,606 m)               Chilumba

                                                                         Chelinda         Mkondowe
                                                       To
                                                    Muyombe                           Livingstonia
                                                                   Katumbe
                                                                    RUMPHI
                                                                                  Rumphi

                                                                                             Ruarwe
                                                                     MZIMBA
                                                             Kafukule          tns.  Mzuzu
                                                               Euthini        M              Nkhata
              Z A M B I A                                   NORTHERN
                                                                              NKHATA
                                                                                   BAY
                                                        Mzimba                Chinteche                    (MALAWI)
12°S                                                                    Viphya                  Bay



                                                                                                                                                                    12°S
                                                                         Luwawa                 Lake
                                                     To
                                                   Lundazi
                                                                            Nkhunga


                                                      Kaluluma                                      Malawi
                                                      K A S U N G U                            Nkhotakota
                                                                 Kasungu
                                                                                    NKHOTAKOTA                                          M O Z A M B I Q U E
                                                                           NTCHISI
                                                                                    Ntchisi
                                                         C E N T R A L
                                            MCHINJI                DOWA             Dowa SALIMA              Makanjila
                                   To         Mchinji    Bua
                                  Chipata                                               Salima

14°S                                                                          LILONGWE                                                                              14°S
                                                             Namitete                                                 Monkey
                                                                 LILONGWE                                             Bay                  To
                                               To                                        DEDZA                                           Cuamba
                                           Furancungo                                        Dedza                  M A N G O C H I

                                                                                                                                 Mangochi
                                                                                          To
                                                                                       Ulongwe               S O U T H E R N
                                                                                                           NTCHEU
 0  20 40 60 80 100 Kilometers                                                                                                                       To
                                        M O Z A M B I Q U E                                                  Ntcheu           MACHINGA             Cuamba
                                                                                                                       Balaka

 0    20  40    60 Miles                                                                                                          Machinga
                      32°E                                                                                           Shire               Lake
                                                                                                                          ZOMBA         Chilwa
                                                                                                         MWANZA                   Zomba
         MALAWI                                                                            To                            Lirangwe
                                                                                           Tete         MwanzaBLANTYRE        ChiradzuluPHALOMBE
                                                                                                             Blantyre       CHIRADZULU    Phalombe
                                                                                                                                  MULANJE
                                                                                                                                   MULANJE
          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                  16°S                                           Chikwawa                  Mulanje      Sapitwa
                                                                                                                      THYOLO                                       16°S
                                                                                                                                          (3,002 m)
          DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                                             Thyolo
                                                                                                          CHIKWAWA                              To
          REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                      Liciro

          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                    N'gabu
                                                                                                              N'gabu
                                                                                                                                  To
          RIVERS                                                                                                                Morire
                                                                                                                      NSANJE
          MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                 Nsanje
          RAILROADS

          DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
          REGION BOUNDARIES                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information          To
                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank       Vila de Sena

          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                              36°E

                                                                                                                                                              NOVEMBER 2004

