Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3051-MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Secondary Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  April 17, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3051-MAI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated January 3, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to expand 
and improve secondary education in its territory (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower  to make withdrawals with respect 
to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Credit 
shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter, dated May 22, 1997, 
from the Association and confirmed by the Borrower on June 9, 1997; 
(c)
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(d)
“EDMU” means the Education Development Management Unit within MOE;  
(e)
“SEP Steering Committee” means the Secondary Education Project Steering 
Committee, established by the Borrower for the Project and referred to in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(f)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, containing, inter alia, workplans, training plans, 
monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to be used for the purposes of 
implementation of the Project, as they may be amended from time to time, in 
Page  3
consultation with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the PIP;
(g)
“Project Account” means the account to be opened and maintained by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and 
(h)
“MK” and “Kwacha” mean the Borrower’s currency. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 35,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
Page  4
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2008 and ending February 1, 2038.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2018 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MOE, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, and education sector practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
Page  5
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  (a) Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall open in a commercial bank and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, a project account, in Kwacha, to be 
operated and maintained by EDMU, into which it shall deposit from time to time its 
local counterpart contribution to the cost of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
make an initial deposit in Kwacha of the equivalent of $15,000 
into the 
Project Account; and  
(ii)
have the Project Account replenished on a quarterly basis, with 
amounts to be 
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association at the 
beginning of each financial year. 
(c)
Funds deposited into the Project Account shall be applied solely for the 
purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for the execution of the 
Project, and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  6
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the PIP;
(b)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence, satisfactory to 
the Association, that the land required for the construction of schools under Part A 
of the Project and rights in respect of such land are available for purposes of the 
Project; 
(c)
the Borrower has selected the consultants under Parts C.1, E.1 and E.2 
(a), all in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and 
(d)
the Borrower has deposited into the Project Account the initial deposit 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (i) of this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANCE
44407 MI
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  7
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Cassim Chilumpha 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  18,400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(2)
Pedagogic materials,
  10,000,000
100% of foreign
text books, equipment
expenditures and
and vehicles
95% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
   1,500,000
100%
and audits
(4)
Training
     700,000
100%
(5)
Incremental operating
   1,200,000
90%
costs
(6)
Refunding of Project
     600,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   3,100,000
TOTAL
  35,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  8
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) works under contracts 
not exceeding $250,000 equivalent; (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; (c) services for consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
(d) services for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (e) 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower’s plan to expand and 
improve secondary education through: (i) expanding access by constructing new 
secondary schools; (ii) improving the quality of education by providing teaching and 
learning materials; (iii) improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the secondary 
education system by strengthening school-based management through the provision of 
training; and (iv) stemming the spread of HIV/AIDS among teachers and students through 
the provision of materials and training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof, as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Expanding Access to Secondary Education 
1.
Construction, furnishing and equipping of about 15 rural secondary schools, 
including school facilities, furniture and equipment, library furnishings and staff 
housing. 
2.
Construction, furnishing and equipping of about five urban secondary schools, 
including school facilities, furniture and equipment, library furnishings and staff 
housing.
Part B:
Instructional Materials 
1.
Acquisition and distribution of textbooks in core subjects in all secondary 
school forms, reference books for school libraries, basic school supplies and 
consumables for science, for the 20 schools constructed under Part A of the Project. 
2.
Acquisition and installation of science and home economics equipment at the 20 
schools constructed under Part A of the Project. 
3.
Acquisition of textbooks, schools supplies and consumables for science for other 
Borrower and Grant-aided secondary schools in the Borrower’s territory.
Part C:
Improving School-Level Management and Teacher Support 
1.
Development of a training course to increase the effectiveness of secondary 
school-based managers in improving the skills of teachers, to increase the quality of 
teaching and learning, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
2.
Training of deputy heads of schools, new heads of schools, methods advisors, and 
heads of departments in all secondary schools, in all managerial and technical areas, 
including, inter alia, leadership, vision, organization, staffing, rules, discipline, 
gender-sensitivity, HIV/AIDS and the relationship between schools and adjacent 
Page  9
communities. 
3.
Strengthening capacity to design and carry out participative practical training 
through the provision of technical advisory services.
Part D:
HIV/AIDS Materials 
1.
Adaptation of high-quality, behavior change instructional materials from 
Zimbabwe to be supplied to every secondary school in the Borrower’s territory. 
2.
Reprinting of some Zimbabwe HIV/AIDS materials for immediate use in the training 
programs under Part C of the Project.
Part E:
Administrative Support, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Studies 
1.
Strengthening existing procurement capacity within EDMU, through the provision 
of technical advisory services. 
2.
(a)
Strengthening the financial system within EDMU, through the provision of 
technical advisory services.
(b)
Installation of a computerized financial reporting system and provision 
of training on the use of said system for all Project staff.
(c)
Carrying out of the audits of Project accounts. 
3.
(a)
Acquisition of personal computers in EDMU, MOE and the Teaching Service 
Commission and the establishment of electronic mail capability within said offices.
(b)
Acquisition of office furniture, equipment and vehicles for EDMU. 
4.
Carrying out of workshops to assess and monitor progress in Project 
implementation.
5.
Refining MOE’s plans for the private provision of secondary education through 
the provision of technical advisory services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for works may be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
Page  10
(b)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(d)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000 equivalent and goods estimated to cost less 
that $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,600,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Page  11
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project the SEP 
Steering Committee chaired by the Principal Secretary, Secondary and Higher Education 
in MOE, and comprised of the Principal Secretary, Finance and Administration of MOE, 
the Directors for Secondary Education, the Supplies Unit, the Education Methods 
Advisory Unit, and the Planning Unit, the Director of the Malawi Institute of 
Education and the Financial Controller, all of MOE, the Budget Director of the 
Ministry of Finance, the Secretary for the National Economic Council and the Secretary 
of the Teaching Service Commission, and with the Coordinator of EDMU as Secretary.
(b)
The SEP Steering Committee shall have overall responsibility for Project 
Page  12
oversight and provide policy guidance and shall meet at least on a quarterly basis, 
until completion of the Project. 
2.
The Coordinator, EDMU, shall be responsible for the procurement of all goods and 
services, disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit for the activities under the 
Project and the preparation and submission to the Association of the semiannual 
progress reports on the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall, by no later than three months after the Effective Date: (a) 
appoint and maintain for a period of eighteen months, a training coordinator to design 
and implement the training program under Part C of the Project; (b) appoint the 
procurement specialist under Part E.1 of the Project; and (c) appoint the financial 
management specialist under Part E.2 (a) of the Project. 
4.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the PIP and shall not amend the PIP or waive any 
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April and October in each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by May and November, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
6.
(a)
The Borrower shall, not later than February 28, 2001, carry out jointly 
with the Association a mid-term review. Such review shall assess the following: (i) 
the overall progress in the implementation of the Project; and (ii) the progress in 
the implementation of the policy reforms, institutional arrangements and private 
sector participation.
(b)
The Borrower shall, three months before such review, prepare and furnish 
the Association reports, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, needed 
to undertake the review, including the preparation of a program of action, to deal 
with deficiencies in Project implementation identified prior to such review.
(c)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project and the 
Program, and shall thereafter implement such action.
ANNEX 
Performance Indicators
Objective
Expand access to secondary schooling
9,600 new secondary school places created
Provide instructional materials to all secondary schools
Page  13
Textbooks in core subjects provided at a ratio of 1 book per student (1:1) 
Improve quality by strengthening capacity of school-level managers to support teachers 
in the schools
All secondary school deputy heads (117) trained
All secondary school heads of department (351) trained
Provide instructional materials on HIV/AIDS to all secondary schools and Distance 
Education Centres 180,000 sets of materials distributed and in use
Strengthen capacity for Project management and monitoring
Full complement of critical EDMU staff in post
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
Page  14
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  15
