Document of                FILE COPY
The World BankFIECP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2586-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
FOURTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
June 6, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre (S/)
Calendar 1978    May 31, 1979
US$1     =          S/25          S/25
S/1      =         US$0.04        US$0.04
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF              Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
CFN              Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation)
CMSU             Unidad de Estudios del Mercado Financiero
(Capital Markets Study Unit)
COFIEC           Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A., Compania Financiera
(Ecuadorian Development Finance Company)
FONADE           Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Fund)
IESS             Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguro Social
(Ecuadorian Social Security Institute)
JUNAPLA          Junta Nacional de Planificacion y Coordinacion Economica
(National Planning Board)
MFF              Mecanismo de Fondos Financieros
(Financial Funds Mechanism)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
FOURTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiaries:           Caorporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN), Ecuatoriana de
Desarrollo S.A., Compania Financiera (COFIEC) and eligible
new development banks.
Amount:                  US$40.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Repayable in 15 years on a composite amortization
basis, including three years of grace, at 7.9 percent
interest per annum.
Relending Terms:         The Central Bank, as agent for the borrower, would
onlend the loan's proceeds, in sucres, to participating
development banks at 10.7 percent interest per annum.
The 2.8 percent p.a. differential between the Bank's
lending rate to the Republic of Ecuador and the
onlending rate to the development banks would be
collected by the Central Bank as a fee for administer-
iag the loan and for assuming the foreign exchange
risk on it. Participating development banks would
relend to ultimate beneficiaries at between 14 and
16 percent p.a. interest, depending on the subloans'
maturities which, in turn, would be up to 15 years,
including up to three years of grace, depending
on the type of investment.
Project Description:    The proposed loan would support the development of
Ecuador's capital market and provide additional long-
term financing for the industrial sector. Greater
competition in the mobilization and channeling of
long-term resources would also be promoted by opening
participation in the proposed project not only to
CFN and COFIEC, the country's traditional medium- and
long-term financial intermediaries, but also to eligible
new development banks.
Special Risks:           The proposed operation faces no unusual project risks.
There is, however, some uncertainty since the industrial
policy of the new Government, which is scheduled to be
inaugurated in August, is still unclear.
This iocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Disbursements:
-- US$ million by Bank FY --
1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                        3.00   12.00   21.10    3.90
Cumulative                    3.00   15.00   36.10   40.00
Appraisal Report:        Staff Appraisal Report No. 2414b-EC dated
May 31, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUIIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A FOURTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$40.0 million to
help finance a Fourth Development Banking Project. The loan would be repaid
in 15 years on a composite amortization basis, including three years of grace,
with interest at 7.9  percent per annum.  The proceeds of the loan would be
relent to participating development banks for up to 15 years, including up to
three years of grace, with interest at 10.7 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 1382-EC
entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Ecuador" was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 1, 1977. A new economic report was re-
viewed in draft with the Government in April 1979 and the final report will
be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. This President's Report
incorporates the main conclusions of the economic report.
Growth
3.        During the past six years, the Ecuadorian economy has gone through
a phase of rapid economic growth spurred mainly by exports. Between 1972
and 197E, GDP grew at an 8.8 percent annual rate in real terms and by 1977
the country's per capira income had climbed to about US$770.
4.        Petroleum exports were the main engine of growth of the Ecuadorian
economy through 1976, despite a decline in their volume since 1974. After
reaching 59 million barrels in 1973, exports of crude oil began to fall and
had dropped to 42 million barrels in 1978. Owing to the international oil
price increases, however, petroleum (crude and derivatives) still accounted
for 37 percent of total exports in 1978, a higher share than in 1973.
5.        While economic growth continued to be high in both 1977 and 1978--
with increases of the GDP equal to 7.7 percent in 1977 and 6.8 percent in
1978--it has been nonetheless lower than the average growth of 10.2 percent
that the country experiernced during the 1972-76 period, when revenue from
petroleum was fueling this growth. Also, the sources of the most recent
growth were different.  Agriculture export prices increased rapidly in 1977,
and preserved the growth momentum; increased volume of exports of agricul-
tural products in 1978 lent buoyancy to the economy. Increased exports were
the combined result of a good banana and cacao crops and of marginal depletion
of coffee stocks.
6.        Economic activiLty in 1978 was also partly affected by factors other
than the impact of international markets. Uncertainty as to the outcome of
elections began to mount during the first half of that year. This, coupled
witlh the scarce availability of credit, contributed to a slowdown in thle rate
of new private investment which, while it jumped by over 19 percent in 1977,
remained practically at an unchanged level during 1978.



- 2-
Social Development and Change
7.        Despite the rapid economic growth which led to present relatively
high average per capita income level, much of the Ecuadorian population
continues to live in poverty. According to the 1974 Census, the per capita
income of two-thirds of the rural population was less than one-third of the
national average. The average annual per capita income of the poorest 25 per-
cent of urban dwellers was only US$94 in 1975. While open unemployment is only
about three percent of the country's labor force, underemployment is estimated
to be as high as 30 percent. The high rate of population growth -- 3.5 percent
per annum, one of the highest in the world -- remains an important cause of
underemployment and poverty.
8.        During the past decade -- and in particular during the years
following the beginnings of exploitation of oil resources (1972) and the
increase of oil export prices (1973) -- an important urban middle class has
emerged. It is composed mainly of the small entrepreneurs, civil servants --
who account for over 10 percent of urban employment -- and of employees in
the modern sectors. This urban middle class has been growing both in size
and in relative income and has been the major beneficiary of recent economic
growth.
9.        Despite the considerable movement of the rural population to the
cities -- the share of city dwellers in total population changed from 28.5
percent in 1950 to 41.6 percent in 1975 -- the economy and society of
Ecuador still suffer from a pronounced dualistic structure. Indians account
for 28 percent of the population, and it is in this group, settled predominantly
in rural areas, as well as within the marginal urban population, that the
poverty roots are deeply anchored. Not only is their average level of pro-
ductivity severalfold smaller on a comparable basis -- per hectare in rural
areas or per employee in urban areas -- than that in the modern sectors of the
economy, but these groups benefit considerably less from the basic infra-
structure -- education, public utilities, roads -- than the rest of population.
10.       There is growing recognition that a social policy, to become effective,
has to become integrated with the country's basic development strategy. This is
reflected, in the rural areas, in a more vigorous attempt to develop agriculture
within a regional context and, in the urban areas, in the increasing attention
given to small and medium-scale enterprises and to exports of labor-intensive
manufactured goods. These are, however, only the first steps in a long and
intricate process.
Basic External and Internal Financial Equilibria
11.       Rapid increases in world prices for Ecuadorian agricultural exports
contributed to the maintenance of the overall buoyancy of the economy during
the past two years. It also led to substantial gains in incomes. The result
of this was rapidly growing consumer expenditures which put pressure upon



- 3 -
supplies cf domestically produced goods, with inflationary consequences. The
rise in consumer prices accelerated in 1976, and continued strongly during
1977 reaching an annual rate of 12.9 percent.  In 1978, price rises slowed
slightly to 11 percent as inflationary trends were curbed by monetary and
credit pol.icies.
12.       During 1970-78, Ecuadorian imports increased at an average annual
rate of 11.5 percent in real terms. The main forces behind this increase were:
(i) the hi,gh investment rates achieved during the period and the related demand
for imported capital goods, mainly for the industrial and transport sectors;
(ii) the steep demand for inputs by the industrial sector; and (iii) the
growing demand for some imported agricultural products.
13.       Real exports of goods increased at an average rate of 9.7 percent per
annum during 1970-78. Petroleum was responsible for most of this growth, since
non-oil exports remained practically constant in real terms between 1970 and
1977. The resource gap, which was 2.2 percent of GDP in 1977, changed to a
slight surplus in 1978 as a result of an eight percent increase in export earnings
combined with a four percent decrease in payments for imports. Despite this small
surplus on trade in goods and non-factor services, however, the current account
balance of payments deficit was still equivalent to 2.3 percent of GDP because of
the outflow for factor paymnents. The deficit may increase substantially in 1979
if, as expected, overall exports remain unchanged, but imports continue to grow.
14.       Fiscal policies in the 1976-77 period were clearly expansionary and
monetary growth accompanying them was strong throughout the first half of 1977.
While revenues remained constant, budgetary expenditures grew at 12.7 percent
during 1977. This refiected a rapid growth in current expenditures, as capital
expenditures fell by 20 percent compared to 1976. The overall public sector
deficit increased from 0.7 percent of GDP in 1975 to 2.4 percent in 1976
and 4.1 percent in 1977.  In order to stem this trend and minimize the inila-
tionary :Lnpact of fiscal policies, fiscal authorities turned strongly to
foreign borrowing and launched sales of foreign-currency denominated bonds
in the domestic capital maLrket. Starting from mid-1977, the monetary
authorities introduced restrictive credit policies which resulted in a
decline in the rate of growth of money and quasi-money from 35 percent in
1976 to 20 percent by the end of 1977. These policies, sustained during 1978,
and accompanied by other efforts to lower the fiscal deficit, succeeded in
reducing it to 3.4 percent of GDP in 1978.
15.       As financing of the fiscal deficit was increasingly sought in
external financial markets, public debt oustanding at the end of 1977 grew by
58.9 percent above the level at the end of 1976. Terms, maturity and grace
periods of the newly contracted debt hardened somewhat as most of this new debt
was provided by commercial sources. In 1978, however, the increase in public
debt was held to 14 percent. Ecuador's debt-service ratio increased from 4.5
percent in 1975 to 14 percent in 1978. The Government made efforts during 1978
to soften the accumulated debt by being more careful in the choice of foreign
credits used to finance part of its deficit. Moreover, at the beginning
of 1979, Ecuador was able to renegotiate US$510 million -- or about one
quarter of its foreign debt -- contracted on the least advantageous terms in
order to improve the debt profile and lighten the future debt-service burden.



-4-
Sectoral Developments
16.       Domestic consumption of petroleum and of its products has been
growing at 16 percent per annum in the last several years, nearly double the
growth rate of GDP. By 1977, one-third of the country's petroleum output
was consumed internally. Although the growth rate of domestic consumption
is expected to slow in the coming years as a result of the lower GDP growth
rate, the amount of petroleum available for export may still continue to
decline, limiting the country's import capacity. Under these circumstances,
and unless new petroleum resources are discovered and exploited, the country's
import capacity would become a serious constraint to the growth of the
economy.
17.       The decline in the volume of petroleum exports may slow down if
Ecuador resumes oil exploration, which has slackened in the past few years.
Investments in rehabilitation of known oil fields will also be needed. To
achieve this, two main economic decisions will have to be implemented -- first,
the decision to invest substantially in oil exploration -- whether with own
resources or by the risk-taking foreign enterprise, and, second, the decision
to increase domestic prices of petroleum. Petroleum prices in Ecuador -- less
than US$0.20 per gallon of gasoline -- are among the lowest in the world, and
this has largely stimulated the excessive domestic consumption.
18.       The agricultural potential of Ecuador is at present largely under-
utilized and could be used both as an engine for the medium-term growth and
as a means to alleviate social inequities. Ecuador has enough fertile land
to expand agricultural and livestock output at a reasonable cost. Its forestry
and fisheries potential is also considerable. While increases in production of
crops and livestock should mainly satisfy the domestic demand, produce of
forestry and fisheries could be directed to the foreign markets. In parti-
cular, the agricultural potential of two important regions of the country --
the Costa and the Oriente -- is considerable. New regional institutions have
been created in order to manage the exploitation of these regions. The use of
new lands together with the extension of improved techniques of cultivation
may slow down the rural exodus, relieve the pressure on urban labor markets,
and improve the distribution of income.
19.       Ecuador will have to make greater efforts to develop agriculture and
to reverse the rising trend of food imports. Infrastructure such as feeder
roads, flood control, and storage facilities, as well as technical assistance
will have to be significantly strengthened. Administrative inefficiencies
consisting of often conflicting decisions and frequently changing policies will
have to be overcome.  A particularly strong effort will have to be made toward
a broader network of technical assistance and education in agriculture and a
more intensive use of fertile but still underexploited land. This may involve
some changes in the landholding pattern, which is still very heavily biased
toward large-size ownerships. As a result of these measures, per hectare
productivity could be increased and the agricultural sector could realize
its potential as one of the leading forces in Ecuadorian development.
20.       The industrial sector of Ecuador, representing 17.8 percent of the
country's GDP, should help in sustaining moderate growth in the next several
years. Ecuadorian industry, predominantly privately owned, has been largely



- 5 -
geared to import-substitution in consumer goods, and has been operating in a
strongly protective environment. This has deflected entrepreneurs' interest
from transformation of the country's natural resources. Moreover, with the
relative prices of capital and labor distorted by the system of investment
incentives, which makes capital relatively cheap compared with the cost of
labor, production techniquaes have become increasingly capital-intensive.
Measures aiming at changes in these policies, which in the past have been
largely responsible for discouraging the industrial sector from involvement
in activities in which it could have a strong comparative advantage, have
been discussed within the Ecuadorian Government. Their final design and
implementation, to be decided by the newly elected Government, could have an
important effect on restructuring the industrial sector and should then result
in a stronger and more efficient growth pattern. This will require, in par-
ticular, changes in tariff, price and interest rate policies in order to
strengthen sectors with more favorable export prospects and to reduce the
possibility that inefficient industries be established.
Outlook
21.       As far as the recent past is concerned, overall economic management
in Ecuador could be considered as relatively adequate, although there were
serious weaknesses in public administration. The Government has resisted
the temptation to sink oil revenues into wasteful and grandiose schemes and
has, instead, used the proceeds of petroleum exports for more modest invest-
ment projects, generally corresponding to the real needs of the economy. It
has also fostered a climate conducive to increased private investment which
resulted in an acceleration of the industrialization process. Moreover, the
authorit:ies have recently shown courage and determination in fighting inflation
through a skillful use of short-term monetary tools.
22.       Ecuador's GDP growth rate is expected to slow down to around 5 percent
in 1979 as a combined result of an unfavorable turnaround in the terms of
trade anid the stagnation in the petroleum sector. However, in the medium
term, the Ecuadorian economy has fair growth prospects.  It is unlikely that
the external sector will continue to play as strong a growth-propelling role
as in the past, mainly because oil exports are expected to continue to decline
(at least until results are realized from the petroleum policies referred to
in paragraph 17) and because agricultural exports may be constrained by adverse
world market price movements. The prospects of the Ecuadorian economy could
be strengthened, however,, through timely implementation of improved policies
in the petroleum, agricuLture and manufacturing sectors. The present Govern-
ment is now working on a new five-year development plan covering the 1980-84
period which it intends to submit to the future Government for consideration.
Many of the above policies, which have been reviewed by the Bank staff and
discussed with the Government, form a part of this strategy.
23.       Ecuador has considerable natural and human resource potential.  To
develop it fully and efficiently, far reaching changes in its economic policies
are needed. Some have already been initiated by the present Government but more
remains to be done by the incoming Administration. A comprehensive dialogue
between the Bank and the country's economic team on the need for policy
reorientation has been carried out recently and will continue with the new



-6-
Government. The size of the country's foreign debt is not excessive -- one-fifth
of its GDP -- and its recent and successful attempts to improve the debt structure
should make its debt service payments managable. Therefore, Ecuador remains
creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
24.       Bank group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954, when a loan
was made for a first highway project. In all, the Bank and IDA have ex-
tended 22 loans and six credits to Ecuador, totalling US$294.7 million net
of cancellations. As of April 30, 1979, US$165 million of this amount
had been disbursed. The IFC has made eight loans and investment commitments
in Ecuador. Two were for a large textile company, four in a development
finance company and one each in a sugar mill and a cement company. These
operations have amounted to US$22.4 million in commitments of which IFC now
holds US$19.0 million.
25.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn, reflects
the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical
resources --a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's eco-
nomic and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC operations as of April 30, 1979, as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were --and still are-- substantial bottlenecks
to be overcome. To date, approximately 39 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport. Nine of the eleven loans and credits extended for trans-
port were to improve the country's road network and two to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Lending for power has aimed at improving
generation and distribution facilities in Quito. The first livestock develop-
ment loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning of a diversification in the
Bank Group's lending program away from straight infrastructure. Since then,
the Bank Group has made eight loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries,
three DFC loans to support industrial development, a credit and a loan for
education, one loan for water supply and two technical assistance loans.  Bank
Group involvement in the directly productive and social sectors has grown to
the point where it now accounts for about 55 percent of total Bank Group
lending.
27.       Turning to the future, Bank lending will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies so as to enable them to implement
projects effectively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the
urban and rural poor. In addition to the fourth development banking project
which this report recommends, the Bank is preparing a slum upgrading operation
for Guayaquil, a second rural development operation, small-scale industry and
petroleum projects and a possible highway loan. Most of these operations
would have important institution building aspects and include sizable technical
assistance components.



- 7 -
28.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and USAID and, to a lesser
extent, bv other bilateral sources. IDB has been, by far, the single largest
lender to Ecuador. Its commitments to the country as of January 31, 1979,
totalled US$475.1 million equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated
in the agriculture, power, health/sanitation and transport fields. Most of
IDB's loans to the country have come from the Fund for Special Operations and
normally carry two percent interest, a 10 year grace period and repayment
terms of up to 40 years. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major
development lender in the immediate future with agriculture accounting for an
increasingly large share of its lending program. USAID, which has lent
Ecuador US$103.6 million ecluivalent, has not made any new commitments to the
country since 1973. Recently, however, USAID has expressed an interest in
renewing its operations in the country, primarily in the agricultural sector.
29.       As of December 3]L, 1978, Ecuador's outstanding public external
debt, including undisbursed, amounted to about US$2.14 billion. Bank Group
lending constituted about Ll percent of this amount and absorbed about 3.6
percent of the Government's external debt service. Assuming increased
recourse by Ecuador to long-term bilateral and multilateral debt, by 1985
the Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding public foreign debt could reach
17 percent and its share in debt service would climb to around 12 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General Characteristics
30.       Ecuador's industrial sector experienced rapid expansion during the
1970-78 period growing by nearly 10.3 percent per annum. The sector's growth
was even higher during the 1975-78 period, 12.4 percent. This expansion was
stimulated by the oil boom, a favorable investment climate, supportive Govern-
ment policies towards the private sector and, to a lesser extent, by the
emergence! of the Andean Common Market. Despite this rapid growth, industry's
share of GDP expanded only modestly -- reaching 17.8 percent at the end of
the period -- because of the even faster growth of the petroleum and services
sectors. Nevertheless, industry's share of exports rose vigorously, i.e.,
from 2.5 percent to 11 percent in the same period. All industrial subsectors
participated in the expansion of the 1970s with above average growth rates in
the food processing, beverages, tobacco and non-metallic mineral industries.
Fixed investment in industry increased from US$60 million in 1970 to US$232
million in 1977 and industrial employment grew by about 67,000 jobs; the
sector currently employs about 15 percent of the total labor force.
31.        Investment in the industrial sector has been financed mainly from
retained earnings and foreign loans and, to a lesser extent, by domestic credit.
The Ecuadorian capital market was able to mobilize only a small fraction of
the sector's financial requirements owing to (i) the relatively low yield on
financial instruments issued by the private sector; (ii) the attractiveness of other
long-term instruments, e.g., tax-free Government securities; and (iii) the



reluctance of companies to open participation in their equity to outside
shareholders. The development of a more mature capital market--one of the
proposed project's principal objectives--would improve this situation and
enable the market to increasingly channel domestic savings to the industrial
sector for investment.
32.       Despite its rapid growth, industry remains at an early stage of
development with traditional manufacturing (e.g., food processing, beverages
and textiles) dominating industrial production. The sector is characterized
by a relatively few large, modern companies -- most of which are import-
substitution oriented -- and by a large number of traditional, small-sized
firms. Small-scale enterprises (those employing less than seven persons)
provide nearly two-thirds of industrial employment but account for only about
one-third of industrial value added. Between 1970 and 1977, the share of
consumer goods in industrial value added hovered around 60 percent. Interme-
diate goods constituted about 30 percent of industrial value added and capital
goods accounted for the remaining 10 percent.
Institutional Framework
33.       In the past, the private sector has taken the lead in industrial
development and the Government has tended to view its role as being limited to
maintaining a favorable investment climate and providing necessary infrastruc-
ture. Within the Government, responsibility for stimulating industrial
development is shared by the National Planning Board (JUNAPLA), the Ministry
of Industry, Commerce and Integration and the state-owned National Finance
Corporation (CFN). The first two establish the sector's policies and develop-
ment strategy. CFN, the country's largest development bank, provides financing
for industrial sector activities. The main private sector associations
representing the country's industry are the Chambers of Agriculture, Commerce
and Industry of the Costa and of the Sierra.
Sectoral Constraints
34.       In the next few years, the industrial sector will face a number
of limitations that are likely to acquire increasing importance. These
include insufficient infrastructure development (particularly power supply,
but also transport and telecommunications); the limited size of the domestic
market; the scarcity of long-term financing, particularly for small firms; a
shortage of skilled workers; and a system of industrial incentives and protec-
tion that has contributed little to increase industrial efficiency. The
Government is taking steps to overcome some of these constraints and short-
comings. With the help of external donors, it is building up Ecuador's
infrastructure base and vocational training program. The Bank has actively
participated in these efforts. The Government is also moving to provide the
sector with stronger financial backing. The proposed project would assist in
providing additional financing to the industrial sector and would help strengthen
the country's capital market system. Finally, the Government is preparing, with
Bank assistance, a small-scale industry project which would address the sub-
sector's financial and operational needs.



-9-
Sector Strategy
35.       Since the early sixties, successive governments have aimed at
advancing industrialization in order to improve the country's balance of
payments situation, generate employment and further a more balanced
regional development of the country. They strove for industrial development
through implementation of fiscal incentives, the provision of credit, tariff
protection and, to a lesser extent, through incentives for exports. While
industry has responded to these generous policies, as is evidenced by the
sector's rapid growth, the incentives have often stimulated capital- and
import-intensive forms of production to the detriment of industries making
fuller use of Ecuador's abundant human and natural resources.
36.       The present Government's strategy has been to accelerate industrial
development so that the sector can (i) help take up the slack in foreign exchange
earnings when the value of petroleum exports start declining; (ii) complement
efforts to increase production in the agricultural sector; and (iii) offer in-
creasing employment opportunities to the rapidly growing labor force. The
Government is also aware of the desirability of promoting industries which
make greater use of local raw materials. In this regard, it recently started
taking steps to modify industrial incentives in order to render the sector
more efficient and to spur a more intensive utilization of domestic resources.
Specifically, it began (i) to restrict import duty exemptions for industries
making extensive use of capital goods and imported intermediate products;
(ii) to reduce other fiscal stimuli to these industries; (iii) to grant special
incentives to labor intensive industries and to those using domestic raw
materiaLs; and (iv) to provide relatively better incentives to small-scale
firms.  On the other hand, the Government has, for some time, also been contem-
plating the creation of large-scale, technologically complex industries --
such as steel, automobile manufacturing and petrochemicals -- which are
capital intensive and recluire sophisticated management. The Bank has urged
the Government to review carefully these large projects to avoid the danger
that some of them might not be competitive and that their capacity might not
be fully utilized, even though they are viewed as regional undertakings which
would produce not only for domestic consumption but also for other Andean
Group countries.
37.       The industrial policies of the recently elected administration which
will be inaugurated next August are, as yet, undefined. President-elect
Roldos has, however, put together teams of experts to advise him on economic
matters including industrial policy. Bank staff already had preliminary contacts
with members of the incoming administration and will be engaging in a dialogue
with the new Government on, inter alia, industrial policy. The recently
completed economic report on Ecuador will serve as a basis for this dialogue.
Moreover, an industrial sector mission will visit Ecuador during the second
half of 1979 and its findings will also be the subject of discussion with the
new Government.
THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Institutional Framework
38.       The monetary and financial policies of Ecuador are established by
the M4onetary Board which includes, inter alia, the Ministers of Finance and of
Industry, Commerce and Integration, as well as the presidents of the Central



- 10 -
Bank and the National Planning Board (JUNAPLA). Private sector representatives
also sit on the Board, whose chairman is appointed directly by the President
of Ecuador. The Board's policy decisions are executed by the Central Bank.
The Monetary Board sets capital and reserve requirements, interest rates and
commissions, and portfolio ceilings. In administering the Board's policies,
the Central Bank is more active in open market operations than many other
central banks in the region. To control the money supply, for example, it
buys and sells tax-free participation certificates, securities and monetary
stabilization bonds.
39.       In addition to the institutions already mentioned, a Financial Funds
Mechanism (MFF)--basically a discount window to complement the financing
operations of the private banking sector and aimed at promoting specific
Government programs in agriculture, tourism, small industry and fishing --
was established in the Central Bank in 1973. In 1974, the Government created
a National Development Fund (FONADE) to channel part of the growing oil
revenues to priority public investment. The principal supervisory body of
the financial system is the Superintendency of Banks, an autonomous technical
entity exercising broad control over financial institutions. It also deter-
mines the accounting practices that financial agencies must follow and author-
izes the establishment of new banks.
40.       In addition to the agencies and funds mentioned before, the finan-
cial system includes 26 banks (24 private and two government owned), a coopera-
tives bank, 11 savings and loan institutions, 23 insurance companies, two stock
exchanges, a warehousing firm, several foreign exchange houses, the Ecuadorian
Social Security Institute (IESS) and eight financieras (seven private and
one government-owned). Financieras, within the Ecuadorian context, are develop-
ment finance companies that lend only to the productive sectors and which can
not accept deposits from the public. Banks and financieras lend to industry,
agriculture and commerce. The housing sector is mainly financed by savings
and loan institutions, commercial banks, the IESS and the government-owned
Ecuadorian Housing Bank. The IESS, besides providing typical hospital and
health care services, extends loans to its affiliates and to the public
sector. The credit operations of the government-owned National Development
Bank (BNF) are oriented towards agriculture, forestry, fishery and livestock
development. BNF also provides funds for small-scale industry. BNF is
Ecuador's largest financial institution both in terms of its coverage (63
branches throughout the country) and its capital.
41.       In 1963 the Government transformed the former Securities Commission
into a financiera -- the Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) -- primarily
to serve the financial needs of industry. Currently CFN is the largest and
oldest financiera in the country. In 1966, private business interests founded
Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A., Compania Financiera (COFIEC), Ecuador's second
largest financiera. Both CFN and COFIEC have a long standing association with
the Bank through three previous development banking loans and both are mature
and efficient institutions. Six new private financieras have been established
in the 1975-78 period.



- 11 -
Operations
42.       Ecuador's capital market is still in its infancy.  It is small and
the number of instruments available to investors is limited primarily to stocks,
tax-free Government securities, mortgage bonds and long-term bonds offered
by financieras. Owing to the market's size and the attractiveness of other
instruments -- particularly tax-exempt bonds -- financieras have had diffi-
culties in mobilizing long-term domestic resources. They are also generally
restricted by existing regulations from passing along to their domestic
clients the exchange risk on their foreign borrowings.
43.       The maximum nominal interest rate for lending in Ecuador is 12
percent per annum. The lending rates on medium- and long-term loans rise
to 14-16 percent per annum, including allowable commissions. In addition,
the effective rate on mortgages currently exceeds 16 percent per annum and
interest rates on foreign loans guaranteed by local financial institutions
are set at LIBOR (or the US prime rate) plus 4 to 6 points per annum.
Since recent domestic inflation has averaged 12 percent annually, normal
financial operations in Ecuador now yield a positive interest rate in real
terms. The exceptions to this rule have been (i) Central Bank loans through
the MFF, which carry an interest of 9 percent per annum to ultimate borrowers;
(ii) export promotion loans (8 percent interest annually); and (iii) loans to
small faLrmers at 11 percent per annum. Despite these exceptions, on balance
Ecuador's interest rate structure has been improving through a gradual increase
of interest rates, an institution building feature of previous Bank operations
in Ecuador.
44.       Interest rates on savings range from 6 to 14 percent in Ecuador.
These variations, coupled with differing lending rates, result in a wide
range oi- spreads depending on the source, use and maturity of the operation.
CFN, for example, obtains spreads of 6 to 8 percent annually when financing
long-term loans with its own bonds. Banks, on the other hand, obtain only
a 2 percent margin on mortgage loans.
45.       The current structure of interest rates and commissions, although a
considerable improvement on the past, has not yet given the financieras or
other institutions sufficient incentive to intermediate long-term resources.
Under present market condlitions, for example, it would be difficult for
financieras to issue bondLs at less than 14 percent per annum. Thus, lending
at 14-1i6 percent per annum would produce a 2 percent per annum spread, at
most, on long-term operations. This is far less than the 4 percent per annum
margin on easily available foreign short- and medium-term resources or the six
percent per annum margin on MFF resources. A further rationalization of the
interesit rate structure iLs, therefore, needed.
46.       The proportion of credit to GDP, around 40 percent, reflects
the relatively low level of intermediation in the economy, compared to
industrialized countries. Moreover, this ratio failed to increase during
the period of rising rea:L income in the early and mid seventies. Only in
1977 did the level of intermediation exceeded that of 1970, as a result of
of further participation of official banks -- mainly the Central Bank --
and financieras in the credit market.



- 12 -
47.        The proportion of credit granted by financial institutions changed
during the 1970-77 period, basically as a result of the establishment of new
financieras and the growth of CFN and COFIEC. Financieras intermediated 13.1
percent of total credit in 1977 compared to 6.9 percent in 1970. Credit
provided by the private financieras outgrew that provided by CFN although the
maturity of the former is mainly short-term as opposed to the longer term
financing provided by CFN. Among banks, the shifts in intermediation have
also been noteworthy. Since the oil boom, official banks have become one of
the major sources of credit. Between 1970 and 1977, the share of credit they
provided grew from 30 to 38 percent, mainly at the expense of private banks.
The operations of the BNF substantially increased in 1973 and 1974 and the
Central Bank has become a major source of credit both to the public and
financial institutions.
48.       The sectoral distribution of credit during 1977 showed commerce
as the largest recipient (40 percent), followed by industry (28 percent),
agriculture and livestock (13 percent), and other sectors (19 percent).
Most credit is still oriented towards financing working capital. Banks,
which lend almost exclusively to the commercial sector, are still the main
source of credit (87 percent). Financing to industry, albeit still insuf-
ficient, has substantially expanded since 1974. Banks account for 45 percent
of industrial credit, financieras for 31 percent and the Central Bank for
the remaining 24 percent.
Past Bank Lending and Strategy
49.       The Bank has extended three development banking loans to Ecuador
totalling US$53.8 million, net of cancellations. In addition, the IFC has
made a small (US$250,000) investment in COFIEC.  The Bank loans have been
primarily on-lent to CFN and COFIEC although newly established financieras
are also eligible to participate in the most recent loan.
50.       Both the first and second development banking projects (financed
with the help of Loan 721-EC approved on December 15, 1970 and Loan 930-EC
approved on June 26, 1973) are completed. The third project, financed by
Loan 1359-EC approved on December 28, 1976, is well advanced; US$17.8 million
of the loan's US$26 million amount has already been disbursed and about
two-thirds of the balance is committed.
51.       A Bank Project Performance Audit Report has been prepared in connec-
tion with the first two projects and will be issued in the first half of June.
It concludes that both projects were successful in increasing long-term
financing to industry and in helping to build CFN and COFIEC into strong
and mature institutions with improved subproject appraisal and supervision
capabilities. It adds, however, that more needs to be done in the area
of long-term mobilization of domestic resources and suggests that both the
Government and the Bank should focus increasingly on ways to develop Ecuador's
capital market rather than concentrating only on interest rate issues.
52.       The third development banking project was already moving in this
direction. The loan agreement called for the Government to set up an office
which would recommend ways of strengthening Ecuador's capital market. Dis-
agreements within Ecuador concerning under whose auspices the office would



- 13 -
function, however, prevenited its establishment. More recently, this issue
has been resolved and the Government is setting up a Capital Markets Study
Unit (CMSU) within the Central Bank. The CMSU would carry out studies leading
to reforms of law, regulations and practices governing financial institutions
and Ecuador's capital market. During negotiation of the proposed loan, the
Bank reached preliminary agreement with the Central Bank on an initial program
of priority studies to be undertaken by the CMSU. The Bank would be afforded
an opportunity to comment on the draft studies' terms of reference and recom-
mendations and on the legislative or regulatory measures proposed by such
studies (Section 4.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). In this way,
the project discussed below would provide a vehicle for a continuation of the
dialogue between the Government and the Bank on ways of overcoming weaknesses
in Ecuador's capital markets.
IV. THE PROJECT
53.        The project was identified by a Bank mission in March 1978 and
was prepared by the Central Bank, CFN and COFIEC with the help of Bank staff.
It was appraised in October/November, 1978 and the appraisal mission's report
(No. 2414b-EC dated May 31], 1979) and entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Fourth
Development Banking Project" is being distributed separately. Annex III
contains a Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations of the loan took
place in Washington from May 7 through 18, 1979 and the Ecuadorian Delegation
was headed by Mr. Mario Erazo, Ecuador's Attorney General.
Projqct  EVi ctive s
54.       Building on the achievements and experience of the first three devel-
opment banking projects, the proposed loan would continue the shift begun
under the third project towards fuller development of Ecuador's capital market.
More specifically, it wouLd aim at: (i) studying and adopting measures which
would strengthen the capital market; (ii) encouraging financieras to inter-
mediate additional medium-- and long-term resources for financing efficient
investment projects, part:Lcularly in the industrial sector; and (iii) promoting
competition in the mobilization and channeling of long-term resources by
opening participation in the proposed projects not only to CFN and COFIEC but
also to the newer financieras.
Participating Institutions
55.       The proposed loan would be made to the Republic of Ecuador with the
Central Bank acting as its financial agent. CFN, COFIEC and eligible newly
established financieras would participate in the project. All financieras
would have access to loan funds in accordance with their ability to mobilize
and lend medium- and long--term resources and taking into account the
efficiency with which they process subprojects (paragraph 77).
a.   CFN
56.       CFN is Ecuador's oldest and largest financiera.  It is Government-
owned. Seven of the nine members of its Board are ministers, thus ensuring



- 14 -
that CFN's policies and operations follow the Government's development strategy.
However, CFN enjoys a large measure of autonomy in its day-to-day operations
and is mainly active in the private industrial sector.
57.       Over the years CFN has built up a competent management team and a
strong and highly motivated staff. This has enabled CFN to double its assets
in real terms since 1975 (to about US$250 million equivalent) with only a
50 percent increase in professionals (to 152). Because of efficient management
and economies of scale, CFN's administrative costs have been lowered to 2.1
percent of its average total assets.
58.       CFN's operations are, in general, soundly managed.  With a few
exceptions discussed below, its staff submit projects to a rigorous appraisal
and systematically supervise ongoing operations. CFN also strictly monitors
disbursements and ensures that its clients follow appropriate procurement
procedures. CFN's accounts are satisfactorily audited and no recent reports
have had any qualifications.
59.       Through 1977, roughly half of CFN's resources came from equity and
long-term loans. Of the latter, all but a small fraction were foreign loans.
CFN has also raised large amounts of domestic resources through tax exempt
bonds. CFN's most important lending activity consists of long-term lending to
industry. In 1977 CFN made 97 loans averaging about US$500,000 in size.
Approximately 60 percent of the loans were made to firms located in Quito
and Guayaquil, the country's two largest growth poles. Two of the fastest
growing components of CFN activities are letter of credit and guarantee
operations. CFN has also invested about 15 percent of its assets in equity
participations in 47 firms.
60.       CFN's return on equity in 1977 was 6.5 percent in nominal terms and
is estimated to have been only about four percent in 1978. In real terms,
its returns on equity in 1977 and 1978 were -5.6 percent and -7.2 percent,
respectively. The financiera's financial performance was clouded by its
excessive exposure -- through investments, loans and guarantees equal to
88 percent of its equity -- in a sugar refinery which it now almost wholly
owns. Because of its recognized administrative competence, CFN was directed
by the Government to intervene in the Government-sponsored refinery to stave
off its bankruptcy owing to depressed sugar prices.
61.       Because of the experience and competence of its staff, CFN may in
future be directed by the Government to participate, as its financial agent,
in other large industrial ventures which Ecuador is considering. Assurances
were, therefore, obtained during negotiations that CFN would not normally
make any loans or investments, or extend guarantees, which result in an
aggregate exposure to a firm or group of related firms exceeding 20 percent
of its equity or which failed to meet its usual appraisal standards. Those
investments which the Government caused CFN to make and which did not comply
with the financiera's usual investment criteria would have to be channelled
through a mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, which would protect CFN
from all risks arising from these investments (Section 4.08 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The funds so invested would be directly provided by
the Government and administered by CFN but would be legally separate
from CFN's ordinary operations. In addition, it was agreed during
negotiations that by June 30, 1980, CFN would submit to the Bank a program



- 15 -
for dispos:ing of its existing excessive exposure in individual firms,
including t:he sugar refinery. CFN would carry out its divestment program
according t:o a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.11(a)(i)
and (ii) of the draft CFN Project Agreement). Finally, to enhance CFN's
profitability, assurances were obtained during negotiations that its policy
statement would be modified so as to explicitly state the objective that
CFN would earn sufficient net income to at least maintain its equity in
real terms (Section 2.13(ii) of the draft CFN Project Agreement). Adoption of
this change in the policy statement would be a condition of disbursement to
CFN (Section 2.02(b)(v) of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Another worrisome aspect of CFN's finances is that it is currently
bearing the foreign exchange risk on about US$130 million in loans. This is
due to CFN's extensive foreign borrowings and to existing regulations which
prohibit financieras from passing along the exchange risk on foreign borrow-
ings to their sub-borrowers.. CFN will conduct a study of this problem and
submit to the Bank a program by June 30, 1980 to reduce foreign borrowings
on which it would bear the exchange risk (Section 2.11(b)(i) and (ii) of the
draft CFN Project Agreement). In addition, one of the first priority studies
which the CMSU would carry out would deal with changes in regulations to permit
domestic financial institutions to pass along the exchange risk on foreign
borrowings to ultimate beneficiaries. This should pave the way for reform on
this matter by the Monetary Board. In the meanwhile, the Government would
fully reim.burse CFN for losses on existing and future borrowings arising
from exchange rate fluctuations (Section 4.06(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
63.       With the safeguards referred to in the two preceding paragraphs,
CFN's return on equity and overall financial situation is expected to improve
markedly. Moreover, its portfolio -- 16 percent in arrears as of end 1978,
mainly because of loans to the sugar refinery -- would also return to satis-
factory levels. For these reasons, CFN would be permitted to increase its
debt equity ratio from the present 6:1 to 8:1 (Section 2.09 of the draft CFN
Project Agreement).
b.   COFIEC
64.       With assets of about US$145 million, COFIEC is Ecuador's second
largest financiera.  It was founded in 1966 by private business interests
and has grown over the years into one of the most widely held companies in
Ecuador w:ith over 400 shareholders. Since first receiving Bank support under
the first development banking loan in 1970, COFIEC has greatly matured as an
institution. It has a competent management and improving professional staff.
The financiera is pursuing an aggressive training program, both in Ecuador
and abroadl, to further upgrade its staff.
65.       COFIEC conducts :its operations in accordance with a generally sound
policy statement. The statement limits COFIEC's exposure to a single borrower
to 25 percent of its equity and prohibits the company from bearing the exchange
risk on its foreign borrow:ings. In line with a similar restriction on the new
financieras expected to participate in the proposed loan, COFIEC's participa-
tion in the project would be conditional on its modifying its policy statement
so as to limit the company's aggregate exposure to firms controlled by its
principal shareholders -- those holding more than one percent of COFIEC's



- 16 -
equity -- to no more than 200 percent of the company's equity (Section 2.15 (ii)
of the draft COFIEC Project Agreement and Section 2.02(b)(vi) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
66.       In its day-to-day operations, COFIEC has made considerable progress.
Its staff now thoroughly appraise subprojects, closely supervise clients in
arrears and have developed adequate disbursement procedures. COFIEC's accounts
are satisfactorily audited and recent reports have no significant qualifications.
67.       Since 1974 COFIEC's portfolio has increased by 10.4 percent per
annum in real terms, although growth slowed down somewhat after 1976. About
60 percent of COFIEC's portfolio is in industry, 15 percent in agriculture and
the balance in other sectors, e.g., tourism. COFIEC's efforts to decentralize
credit have enabled it to make about a third of its loans to clients located
outside Quito and Guayaquil. COFIEC's portfolio is sound. As of end-1977,
arrears accounted for only 3.5 percent of the total portfolio.
68.       COFIEC earned an average nominal return on equity of 17.2 percent
during the 1976-78 period. Because of inflation in Ecuador, however, the
real return was considerably less, about four percent. Looking towards the
future, projected lower inflation and new higher commissions on long-term
lending should enable COFIEC to improve its profitability. In order to
improve the company's finances still further by giving it a higher leverage,
and because COFIEC enjoys a sound financial position, during negotiations the
Bank agreed to increase the financiera's debt equity ratio from 8:1 to 10:1
(Section 2.11 of the draft COFIEC Project Agreement).
c.   The New Financieras
69.       Between 1975 and 1978, six new financieras have been founded in
Ecuador. Several have foreign capital but Ecuadorians hold a majority of
shares in all six; CFN is a minority shareholder in four of them. The new
financieras' sponsors are varied. Three are backed by regional groups--two
from Guayaquil and the third from Cuenca, Ecuador's third largest city.
Another is sponsored by a commercial bank. Quito and Guayaquil businessmen
not previously associated with the financial sector are active in the remaining
two.
70.       All six new financieras are organized along conventional lines.
They have boards of directors, executive committees and strong presidents
or general managers. Because they are new and small, their administrative
procedures are somewhat informal. In general, the quality of management
and staff at the new financieras is, however, good with one or two exceptions
where low salaries may be a problem. All have drawn some of their personnel
from local financial institutions -- COFIEC, CFN and commercial banks -- or
from foreign commercial banks (e.g., Citibank) and international organizations.
71.       To date, none of the new financieras have drawn up policy statements.
They operate on the basis of their statutes, which are quite broad. The
adoption of policy statements satisfactory to the Bank would, therefore, be a
condition of disbursement to any new financiera (Section 2.02(b)(vii) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The statements would establish satisfactory limits
to the amount of foreign exchange risk they could bear and would stipulate
that aggregate lending to companies controlled by a financiera's shareholders
could not exceed 200 percent of the financiera's equity.



- 17 -
72.       Although the new financieras have staff members with some experience
in long-term lending and project evaluation, all have to develop appropriate
appraisal and supervision capabilities. Through close supervision of partici-
pating new financieras, the Bank will assist them in this process. CFN will
also provide technical assistance to those new financieras which request it.
73.       Thus far, the new financieras have operated with only equity
resources arLd short- and medium-term foreign commercial bank lines of credit.
The amount of equity they have attracted, however, is noteworthy, totalling
about US$17 million by end-1977. This amount slightly exceeds COFIEC's
equity. In order to be eligible to participate in the proposed project, a
new financiera would have to have a paid-in capital of at least S/50 million,
equivalent t:o US$2 million at the current exchange rate (Section 5.01(b)(i) of
the draft Loan Agreement).  The new financieras' resource mix has caused most
of their lending to be short- and medium-term; 80 percent of loan amounts are
due within one year. As a condition of participation in the proposed loan,
new financieras would be required to have at least five lending operations
in their portfolio with an original final maturity of not less than three
years (Section 5.01(b)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
74.       The new financieras have not encountered serious financial problems
owing to their generally good management, the close oversight of the Super-
intendency of Banks and their very newness. Loans in arrears constitute a neg-
ligible percentage of their portfolios and all but one of the financieras are
adequately profitable. Unti:L they are more firmly established, however, new
financieras would have to have debt equity ratios not exceeding 7:1 in order
to participate in the project (Section 5.01(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
75.       By June 30, 1980, the Bank would assess each potentially eligible
new financiera to determine which had developed sufficiently to have access
to loan funds. In making this determination, the Bank would flexibly apply
the criteria referred to in paragraphs 73 and 74. It would also evaluate
(i) the adequacy of each new financiera's management, staff and procedures;
(ii) the financiera's financial soundness; (iii) each company's ability to
prepare, evaluate and supervise subprojects; and (iv) the ability and
willingness of each new financiera to progressively orient its operations
to medium- and long-term financing (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Upon completion of each review, the Bank would enter into a project agreement
with each financiera which was found eligible to participate in the project
(Section 5.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Loan Features
76.       Ihe proposed US$40 million loan would fill 70 percent of the finan-
cing gap--estimated at about US$57 million--which Ecuador's development
banks are expected to face during the 1979-81 period. This gap assumes that
the demand for long-term loans will grow by about 6 percent per annum in real
terms during the three years; in question, which is reasonable. The remaining
30 percent of the gap is expected to be met by additional domestic resources
which the financieras would be able to mobilize as the result of the incentive
allocation mechanism discussed below.



- 18 -
77.       Loan funds would be allocated to eligible financieras in proportion
to their ability to mobilize term domestic resources, e.g., through bonds,
medium- and long-term loans or equity contributions.  Due regard would also be
given to the speed with which participating financieras were able to commit
loan funds (Schedule 2(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Based on past experi-
ence, CFN is expected to use about US$18 million (or 45 percent) of eligible
loan funds while COFIEC would use about US$14 million (35 percent). The remain-
ing amount (20 percent) is expected to be drawn down by the new financieras.
Both the Government and the Bank would review the allocation mechanism from
time to time with the first review to take place no later than December 31,
1980. Any needed adjustment in the mechanism would be made by the Bank after
exchanging views with the Government (Schedule 2(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).  These reviews would help assure that all eligible financieras
were having fair access to loan funds while encouraging them to mobilize other
term domestic resources.
78.       CFN would have a free limit of US$1.5 million, COFIEC's free limit would
be US$1.25 million and the new financieras would have a free limit of US$250,000
except that the Bank would review the first two sub-loans of each new financiera
regardless of their amount (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). These
limits are appropriate considering each financiera's size, maturity and previous
relationship with the Bank under the first three development banking loans. An
economic rate of return would be calculated on all subprojects receiving more than
US$150,000 in Bank funds or more than US$500,000 in other medium- and long-term
funds (Section 2.04(b) of'the draft CFN and COFIEC Project Agreements).
Relending Terms
79.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Republic of Ecuador at
7.9 percent interest. It would be repayable within 15 years on a composite
amortization basis including three years of grace. The Central Bank would
on-lend the loan's proceeds, in Sucres, to participating financieras at
10.7 percent interest per annum. The differential, 2.8 percent per annum,
would be collected by the Central Bank as a fee for assuming the foreign
exchange risk on the loan and for serving as the Government's financial agent.
Participating financieras would re-lend the loan's proceeds to the ultimate
beneficiaries at an interest rate of 14-16 percent per annum, depending on the
subloans' maturities. Subloans would have maturities of up to 15 years and
grace periods of no more than three years, depending on the type of investment
being financed. With inflation in Ecuador expected to average about 11
percent per annum in the 1979-82 period, the interest rates to be charged
sub-borrowers by the financieras would be positive in real terms. They would
also afford participating financieras satisfactory spreads of between 3.3 and
5.3 percent per annum.  No more than US$3 million in Bank funds under the
proposed loan or more than US$5 million under this and previous development
banking loans would be committed to a single firm or group of related firms
(Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursement and Procurement
80.       The terminal date for submission of subprojects would be June 30,
1982, and the proposed loan's closing date would be June 30, 1983. Disburse-
ments would be made only against foreign exchange expenditures associated with
the financieras' subloans. Procurement would be in accordance with the
standard practice for Bank development banking loans.



- 19 -
Project Benefits and Risks
81.       Based on the experience of the first three development banking loans
to Ecuador, the average subloan would be for about US$500,000. Approximately
80 subprojects can be expected to benefit from the proposed loan. These
would require total investments of around US$160 million. Most subprojects
are expected to be in the food processing, beverage, textiles and forest
products subsectors--where Ecuador enjoys a comparative advantage -- and
would have an economic return of over 20 percent. The subprojects would
also directly generate about 3,200 new jobs.
82.       Creation of the CMSU would be an important institution-building
feature of the project which is expected to have far-reaching effects.
Through its studies and proposals for reform of the capital market, the
CMSU would enable Ecuador's financieras to tap an increasing share of the
country's important savings potential and to channel these resources towards
efficient investments which would spur growth. By conditioning access to
loan funds on a financiera's ability to mobilize term resources, the proposed
project would give Ecuador's development banks an additional incentive to
engage in this necessary task.
83.       Establishment, as needed, of a special mechanism to allow the Govern-
ment to invest in large industrial ventures through CFN while protecting
the financiera's equity is another important institution-building element of
the project.  The mechanism would enable the Government to make use of CFN's
unique technical and administrative abilities to help carry out large state-
sponsored ventures without compromising the company's financial soundness.
84.       The proposed operation faces no unusual project risks.  There is,
however, some uncertainty as to how the private sector will react to the
as yet undefined industrial policies of the new administration which will
be inaugurat:ed in August. In view of recent statements by President-elect
Roldos inviting the private sector to continue playing a major role in
Ecuador's development and since many of Mr. Roldos' key advisors are well-
known businessmen or respected economists, it is unlikely that Ecuador's
investment climate will deteriorate owing to the upcoming political change.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
85.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and CFN and COFIEC, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement and the text of the draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
86.       The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for
development banking projects. The main features of the draft Loan and
Project Agreements are referred to in the text and listed in Section III
of Annex III. Special conditions of disbursement for CFN and COFIEC would
be the modification of their policy statements in a manner satisfactory



- 20 -
to the Bank (paragraphs 61 and 65). A special condition of disbursement
for each new financiera would be their adoption of policy statements
satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 71).
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 6, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-  21  -                                    ANiIEX  I
TABLE 3A                                    Page  1 of  5 pages
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ECUADOR                                              /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                               - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            283.6                                                 SAME         SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      65.2                               MfOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOHE       INCOlE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP Id   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    ..       360.0    770.0           1066.7      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(EtLOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    201.0       297.0    442.0            911.1      578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, KID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        4.2         5.9       7.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 36.0 /fLL  38.3       41.6            57.9       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KD.                       15.0        21.0      27.0            25.6       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. SK. AGRICULTURAL LAND     89.0        99.0     117.0            77.6       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
C-14 YRS.                         45.0 /fi.  47.6 If   44.5 /1          42.0       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                        51.8 /f.R   49.5 /f   51.7 /f         52.2       53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2 /f.a    2.9 /f    3.8 If           3.7        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                              3.0         3.5       3.6***          2.7        2.5         1.6
URBAN                              5.0 /h      4.1 /i   5.6              4.3        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.3        45.0      41.8            35.8       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     16.9        12.0       9.5             9.1       10.8         9.9
GaCss REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.3       3.1             2.6        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          9.0      34.8
VSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         ..        6.3            15.1       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
EtER CAPITA (1970-100)            88.9       100.0      95.1           102.1      107.3       103.8
PEE CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   81.0        91.0      93.0           103.9      105.3       110.4
P'ROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         46.0        49.0      47.4            60.3       63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       24.0        22.0      21.9            26.7       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     21.5        14.6       ..              8.7        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIST EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0        57.2      59.6            62.6       57.2        63.0
THRANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          100.0        76.6      70.2            56.9       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
'OTAL                               ..        34.0      36.0            60.7       56.8        67.7
DRBAN                               *-        76.0      67.0            78.0       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..         7.0       8.0            34.9       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..             61.1       30.9        70.3
DRBAN                               ..         ..        ..             80.3       45.4        90.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        7.0            25.4       16.1        38.3
POi?ULATION PER PHYSICIAN             ..     2870.0   2110.0            1899.3    2706.8       1310.8
PO'?ULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      2640.0   2820.0 /I        1220.1    1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
rOTAL                           520.0 /I,k  430.0    470.0            422.3      493.9       275.4
JRBAN                               ..       190.0       ..           258.2      229.6        129.9
RURAL                              ..      4740.0        ..          2281.6    2947.9        965.9
ADM3AISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        17.0       *-             25.6       22.1        18.9
HOUS lNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.1 /j      5.2        ..              5.2        5.2        3.9
SRBAN                               ..         ..        ..              ..         5.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.5 /R      *-        *-              2.0        2.0         0.9
CRBAN                              2.1 L        .         ..             2.1        1.5        0.8
RURAL                              2.8jj       ..        ..              2.7        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO U.ECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             32.0 jj       ..      41.0            51.2       64.1        59.2
URBAN                             78.5         ..        ..             77.3       67.8        78.0
RURAL                              6.0 /R       '       12.0            12.8       34.1        12.5



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TAWLE 3A                                      Page  2  of  5 pages
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REPERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ECUADOR                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMTE Lb        REGION /c  GROUP Id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 83.0        97.0     102.0           103.5       99.8        97.6
FENALE               79.0        95.0     100.0           102.9       93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        26.0      38.0            37.2       33.8        47.8
FEKALE               10.0        24.0      36.0            37.9       29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 29.0        29.0      23.0            14.7       12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0      39.0            32.8       34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                         11.0        15.0      16.0            17.8       22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..        68.0      69.0 /1         74.9       71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENIGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         5.0       5.0            26.9       12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        41.0       279.0        ..           173.5      104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5        25.0      36.0            69.4       28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 54.0        41.0      41.0            72.8       45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         4.0       5.6             4.3        4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1400.0      1700.0    1900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  16.2        19.1      20.1            21.4       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             57.0        54.0      43.5            37.8       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.4        22.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.5        31.7      31.6            30.8        33.8        33.7
MALE                                54.3        51.0      50.2            47.2       48.1         50.8
PEMALE                              10.5        12.2      12.8             13.2       17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.7         1.8       1.8             1.7         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS     ..          ..        ..            28.9        23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..            57.7       52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..             3.2        4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..            10.7        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           251.9      191.9
RURAL                               '-          *      196.0           200.6      193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UR8AN                               '-          *-    161.0            403.1      319.8       448.8
RURAL                               ..          .      115.0           258.0       197.7      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      23.0            24.8       19.8        23.2
RURAL                               '-          *-      90.0            65.2       35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
valus of the indicacor and the moet populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and i nort uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between L973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  Se  Upper
Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976); /f Excluding nomadic Indian jungle population;
/g  1962;  /h  1950-62;   /i  1962-70;  LI  1972;  /k  Government hospital establishments only.
Sepretmber, 1978
A*    recent economic mission (1978) has estab lished that the actual annual groywth of populationis35



-  23  -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
No_tA: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric m.emos without the eaclasiom of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kn)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agriculcural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establiahments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as 'World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basns);               sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total numnber of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPIPA - Annual consumption of cosmarcial energy                     from  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOUSING
Average sine of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATI0N1 AND VITAL STATIS1'ICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger nay or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nom-
of data among countries.                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
Of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - total, urban., and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture laRnd - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(1;-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and fendls - Total and female anerllmn.t of all ages
growth rates of total asd urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but ad5usced for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with sniversal edu-
oid-year population; ter-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent siace acne pupils are below or
1970 and five-year avera.ge ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Arnual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary oduca-
year population; ten-year arithmAetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average enxding in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Oross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproduct:Lve period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rate,;; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1970.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - accepto:s., annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as departments of secondary Institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of notional family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primnary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         sponding levels.
married women of child-oearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adulc literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all maried  oee  in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUDMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                     seating less chan eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of rat food supplies available  in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
mal activity and heaslt, considering environmental temperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age aed sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludas unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at housethold level.                                                      tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effoct.
Per capita supply of prot:ein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper ctrculation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of f,ood per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                    tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Of animal and pulse pro,tein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.            Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of tocal protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinenas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the worldl, proposed by                     units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein suppli from animal and pulse - Prote:lm supply of food             EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths par thous-                  forces and unemployed but exoluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions In various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.            '                                   female labor force as percentages of their respective populatioin.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting  e-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     structure of the population, snd long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water Euch as that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) aes percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of thal: house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housev:.fe or members of the household do not have to                     of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROLPS
Access to excreta dispos;al (percent of nopulation) - total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute povertv income level (USS per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of peopls (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentagese of their respective populations.  Extreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human eKcrets and waste-water by water-borne systems                   Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                      per sapita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Departrent



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant 1970 Sucres)
US$ Mln.     _                      1970 - 77            1978
GNP at Market Prices             6,937    100.0                       8.6               6.8
Gross Domestic Investment       1,784      25.7                     11.1             _10.0
Gross National Saving           1,624      23.4                       7.0              26.7
Resource Balance                     6      0.1                     22.2                -
Exports of Goods, NFS           1,734      25.0                       8.1              15.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           1,728      24.9                     12.4               21.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added1/         Labor Force2/           V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                  l       %__            US$         %
Agriculture                      1,248     20.3          *943   43.1            1,323       47.1
industry                        2,188     35.6           .449   20.5           4,873       173.5
Services                        2,716      44.1          .788   36.4            3,403      121.1
Unallocated                        ..       .....
Total/Average                 6,152    100.0          2.190  100.0            2,809      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government               Central Government
Sucres Mln.        % of GDP          (Sucres Mln.)   % of GDP
197977                74-76           1977      1977   1974-76
Current Receipts                      27,366          17.8    20.3           17,033     11.1     11.6
Current Expenditures                 21,659           14.1    12.1           12 352      8.0      6.8
Current Surplus                        5,707           3.7     8.3            4,681      3.0      4.8
Capital Expenditures                  13,495           8.8    11.5            2,704      1.8      2.4
External Assistance (net)              3,869           2.5      .5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1973       1974       1975        1'976       1977       1978
(Million sucres outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  12,515     17,430     19,816       26,814     32,238     36,215
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)       - 53    -1,427      -2,134       -2,132     -4,972     -6,531
Bank Credit to Private Sector          11,444     16,441     21,340       29,018     36,354     43,649
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        19.6      18.6        18.3        20.6       21.0       15.7
General Price Index (1970 = 100)        132.0     162.0       185.2       204.1      230.5      260.7
General Price Index (Annual growth
rate)      12.0      22.7        14.3        10.2       12.9       13.1
not available
not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
_ Industry includes mining, manufacture, electricity and water and construction.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated"
consists krtaiuly of unemployed workers seeking their first job. Labor force for 1977 are estimated
based on average annual growth rates by sector during the period 1972-76.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1975   1976   1977    1978                                        US $ Mln.   %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS       1110   1419   1603    1734           Petroleum                          678   48.0
Imports of Goods, NFS    -1295  -1340  -1811   -1728             Bananas                            163   11.5
Resource Gap (deficit                                            Coffee                             220   15.6
-  -)       - 185      79  - 208        6         Cacao                               48    3.4
Fishery                             39    2.8
Net Factor Payments        -  67  - 117  - 170   - 206           All other commodities              265   18.8
Net Transfers                 32      31     36       40                Total                     1,413  100.0
Balance on Current
Account                  - 220  -   7  - 341   - 161
Direct Foreign Investment   95   - 20         35      40         EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements            137    233    637       514                                                 US $ Mln.
Amortization          -  33   - 56  -  47   - 247
Subtotal                 104    177    590       267           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           1,401
Capital Grants                -       -      -        -            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)        -  45      53  - 172   - 109            Total outstanding and disbursed
Other items n.i.e.            -       -      -        -
Increase in Reserves (-)    65  - 203  - 112          37
1/
Gross Reserves (end                                              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978
year)          312    559    744       765
Net Reserves (end                                                                                            %
year)          257    457    613       646
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           14.1
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                                          Total outstanding and Disbursed
of which:  Petroleum    14         7      9        9
Exports
of which:  Petroleum   617    737    648         678         IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Apr. 1979)   (Million US $):
IBRD    IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE (official Rate)
Through - 1971              Since - 1971                       Outstanding and Disbursed           69.9   36.5
US $ 1.00 = 25 Sucres       US $ 1.00 - 25 Sucres              Undisbursed                        128.1      1.6
S 1.00 = US $ 0.04          S 1.00 - US $0.04              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    198.0   38.1
not available
not applicable
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS* (as of April 30, 1979)
-------US$ million --
Loan or                                                        (less cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                             Amount
Number   Year         Borrower          Purpose            Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
9 loans and 4 credits fully disbursed                      65.5       28.0
124     1968 (IDA)  Ecuador            Education             -        5.2         .5
555     1969         Ecuador           Fisheries           4.3          -         .5
930     1973         Ecuador           DFC                20.0          -         .9
425     1974 (IDA)  Ecuador            Irrigation             -       5.5        1.1
1030     1974         Empresa           Water Supply       23.2          -       15.5
Municipal de
Agua Potable
de Guayaquil
1157     1975         Ecuador           Education           4.0          -        3.8
1229     1976         Ecuador           Seeds               3.0          -        2.4
1230     1976         Ecuador           Technical           4.0          -        3.8
Assistance
1231     1976         Ecuador           Highways           10.5          -        7.3
1255     1976         Guayaquil         Ports              33.5          -       26.4
Port Authority
1359     1977         Ecuador           DFC                26.0          -        8.2
1429     1977         Ecuador           Highways           17.5          -       14.7
1459     1977         Ecuador           Agriculture        15.5          -       15.5
S006     1978         Ecuador           Technical           11.0         -       11.0
Assistance
1644     1978         Ecuador           Rural Development 18.0           -       18.0
Total                                        256.0       38.7      129.7
of which has been repaid                    58.0        0.6
Total now outstanding                        198.0       38.1
Amount sold                           4.1
of which has been repaid           1.8       2.3          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA               195.7       38.1
Total undisbursed                            128.1         1.6     129.7
*Includes exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1979)
Type of    -Amount in US$ Million-
Fiscal Year                                         Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.                Textiles    3.7        0.3       4.0
1969, 1973,   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo,
1975 & 1977   S.A., Compania Financiera
(COFIEC)                             DFC            -       0.4       0.4
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Industrial    Sugar Mill  5.0             -       5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
1978           La Cemento Nacional CEM              Cement      12.0       1.0      13.0
Total gross commitments                          20.7       1.7      22.4
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                          2.9       0.5      3.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                17.8       1.2      19.0
Total undisbursed                                12.0       1.0      13.0



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit 124-EC - Education Project: US$5.1 million Credit of June 27, 1968;
Effective Date: August 30, 1968; Closing Date: September 1,
1979.
The project has faced difficulties from the start and is now
about seven years behind schedule. Many of the 28 schools involved still
require some work, consisting primarily in the completion of laboratories
and workshops and in the installation or completion of electricity, water
and sewerage connections. The credit's closing date has, therefore, been
extended to September 1, 1979. An inventory of the work remaining to be
done has been prepared and the construction/rectification process is pro-
gressing slowly.
Loan 555-EC  -  Fisheries Project; US$5.3 million Loan of September 5, 1968;
Effective Date: September 4, 1969; Closing Date: March 31,
1980.
The project is about five years behind schedule. The first component
of the project, tuna purse-seiner financing, was scaled down from 12 to 4
vessels owing to a less than anticipated demand and is now completed. A
second component, the Manta Fishing School, is now operational although a
dispute with the consultant responsible for the training program has somewhat
weakened the school's effectiveness. The final component of the project, the
feasibility study and design of the Manta Port Expansion, is progressing. The
detailed design of facilities proposed for Manta Port has been completed and a
fish marketing study is expected to be undertaken and completed before the
closing date.
Credit 425-EC - Milagro Irrigation Project; US$5.5 million Credit of August 17,
1973; Effective Date: January 17, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production in an
area covering about 11,300 ha. More than 80% of the credit, for irrigation
works, road infrastructure, equipment and vehicles has been disbursed.
However, there is an urgent need to complete the land titling and to plan and
implement on-farm development, through provision of production-supporting
services such as applied research, agricultural extension and credit. Repro-
gramming of project activities by INERHI, in consultation with the Ministry of
Agriculture (MAG) and the National Research Institute (INIAP), and assisted by
outside consultants, is underway.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any pro-
blems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknessess in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 930-EC - Second Development Finance Companies Project; US$20.0 million
Loan of August 17, 1973; Effective Dates: COFIEC February 27,
1974; CFN Marclh 4, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
Though behind its original completion schedule of December 31,
1977, this loan has been entirely committed to sub-borrowers, and less than
US$1 million remains undisbursed. A draft project completion report has
already been prepared and it concludes that the loan was successful in meeting
its objectives. The project completion report will be ready in early June 1979.
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project execution has been delayed by frequent managerial changes,
lack of counterpart funds and slippages in the hiring of consultants. As a
result, the project is now about 46 months behind schedule and is faced with
important cost over-runs. Tariff increases, additional Government financing
and other remedial measures, have partially rectified this situation and con-
struction is now underway on the project's Guayaquil component. Contracting
of the Santa Elena pipeline -- this operation's single largest component
accounting for about 1/2 of the loan -- is underway and construction is
expected to begin shortly.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1980.
P'roject implementaLtion is 2-1/2 years behind appraisal schedule due
to frequent: managerial changes, serious financial problems, and technical
difficulties with the design and space standards of the Quito and Guayaquil
training centers. A new Vocational Training Law was enacted in October 1978
which is expected to resolve many of the financial and management problems
which have been encountered. Procurement of construction for the training
centers is expected to take place shortly. The closing date has been extended
by two years to permit the project's conclusion.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project execution and loan disbursement have proceeded more slowly
than anticipated. However, the implementing institutions (National Seeds
Council, Improved Seeds Company, Department of Seed Certification and the
Project Unit) have been established and staffed. Procurement and construction
are underway and two experts have been hired. The Government is reviewing the
organization of the Project Unit and the Seeds Certification Department and
intends to assign them greater operational and administrative autonomy.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
A National Rural Development Planning Unit (UNDER) envisaged in the
project has been established but delays in hiring of experts as well as its
own staff's lack of planning experience has hampered its effectiveness. The
Tungurahua Rural Development Project's (Loan 1644-EC) preinvestment studies
were financed through this Technical Assistance Project. A rice irrigation
feasibility study is underway but preparation of the Guayas and Esmeraldas
River Basin studies have experienced substantial delays. ALtogether, disburse-
ments are about 2-1/2 years behind schedule.
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
After initial delays, all civil works and technical assistance
elements under the project are now in execution and advancing satisfactorily.
Overall progress in civil works is about 37% instead of the scheduled 91%;
an extension of the project of about one and a half years is expected. By
February 28, 1979, US$3.1 million had been disbursed. The tLechnical assist-
ance programs are already showing their positive effects on highway planning,
engineering and maintenance.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date:  March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Disbursements are two years behind schedule due, primarily, to the
agreement to draw down US$10 million provided by cofinancing sources before
disbursing from the Bank loan. Although considerable progress has been made
in the dredging, reclamation and piling works, the contractor is still behind
schedule by about two months. A need to redesign the port Ifacilities resulted
in a dispute between the Port Authority and the contractor over the cost of
the redesigned works. An arbitrator's decision on the disputed price was
issued in September 1978, according to which the cost of the contract works
will increase by an estimated US$14 million and the period of the contract
will be extended by eight months. Meanwhile, the contractor has regained the
normal tempo of work and expects to recover the lost time.
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project: US$26.0 million Loan
of February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August- 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Commitments have proceeded faster than anticipated but disburse-
ments are six months behind schedule. The new financieras that were
expected to receive US$3 million under this loan have not been able to meet
the criteria required for participation. At the government's request,
therefore, the project was modified to permit these financieras to have
access to Bank funds through CFN, the main financiera participating in the
project.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Construction oE the Duran-Boliche and the Puerto Ila-Doblones roads
has begun. Engineering design of feeder roads in the Puerto Ila-Doblones
region should be ready by mid-1979, with construction of these roads to begin
before the end of the year. The study of regional secondary and feeder roads
in three southern provinces is underway. By February 28, 1979, US$1.9 million
had been disbursed.
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Loan continues a program of credit for livestock development,
financed under three previous loans and credits, and has been broadened
to cover crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services.
In addiLtion, there are applied research and technical assistance components.
Fifteeni banks and financieras have signed subsidiary loan agreements.
Arrangements have been made with the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(MAG) and a regional development agency (CREA) to coordinate the provision
of extension services with development credit to small farmers. First
disbursement requests are expected soon.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistant Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date:  March 1, 1978;_
Closing Date: January 31, 1982.
A contract has already been signed for one of ten selected studies
(the Petrochemical Study) and work is progressing, albeit slowly, on drafting
satisfactory terms of r,eference and contracts for the others. Two of the four
experts to be hired under the project have been recruited and are already
working; their services are being paid for by UNDP. To date no disbursements
have been made, but none were foreseen for 1978.
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan
of May 11, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This integrated rural development project was recently signed and
is expected to be declared effective in July 1979.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
FOURTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:  7 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                         The Central Bank, CFN and
COFIEC with assistance
from Bank staff
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:              December 1977
(d)  Identification of Project:                   March 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:              October 1978
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:               September 30, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government to afford the Bank an opportunity to comment on the terms
of reference and recommendations of the CMSU's studies (para. 52).
(b) Any investments which the Government caused CFN to make in a firm or
a related group of firms and which resulted in an aggregate exposure
exceeding 20 percent of CFN's equity or failed to meet its usual
appraisal standards would have to be channelled through a mechanism,
satisfactory to the Bank, which would protect CFN from all risks
arising from these investments.  Moreover, by June 30, 1980, CFN
would submit to the Bank a program for disposing of its existing
excessive exposure in single firms. CFN's divestment of these
excessive investments would be according to a timetable satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 61).
(c) CFN to prepare and submit to the Bank, by June 30, 1980, a program
to reduce foreign borrowing on which it bears the exchange risk.
Meanwhile, the Government would fully reimburse CFN for losses
arising from exchange rate fluctuations (para. 62).
(d) CFN and COFIEC to increase their debt equity ratios to 8:1 and
10:1, respectively (paras. 63 and 68).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) CFN's policy statement to be amended so as to explicitly state
the objective that CFN would earn sufficient net income to at
least maintain, its equity in real terms (condition of disbursement
to CFN, para. 61).
(f) COFIEC's policy statement to be amended so as to limit its aggregate
exposure to firms controlled by its principal shareholders to no
more than 200 percent of COFIEC's equity (condition of disblrsement
to COFIEC, para. 65). The new financieras would also adopt: policy
statements satisfactory to the Bank (condition of disbursement to
the new financieras, para. 71).
(g) To be eligible to participate in the project, new financieras
would be required (i) to have at least five lending operations
with an original final maturity of not less than three years;
(ii) to have debt equity ratios not exceeding 7:1; and (iii) to
have a paid-in capital of at least S/50 million (paras. 73 and
74). The Bank would apply these criteria flexibly and in
determining eligibility would also give due regard to each new
financiera's management, staff, procedures, financial soundness,
ability to prepare and supervise subprojects, and ability and
willingness to progressively orient their operations to term
lending. Interested new financieras would be evaluated by the
Bank no later than June 30, 1980, and those found eligible to
participate would enter into project agreements with the Bank
(para. 75).
(h) Loan funds would be allocated to eligible financieras in proportion
to their abi:Lity to mobilize domestic medium- and long-term resources
and to the speed with which the financieras committed funds. The
Government and the Bank would review and adjust the allocation
mechanism from time to time with the first review to take place no
later than December 31, 1980 (para. 77).
(i) The free limits for CFN and COFIEC would be US$1.5 million and
US$1.25 million, respectively.  The free limit for new financieras
would be US$250,000 (para. 78). Participating financieras would
calculate an economic rate of return on all subprojects to receive
more than US$150,000 in Bank funds or more than US$500,000 in other
medium- and long-term funds (para. 78). No more than US$3 million
from the proposed loan or more than US$5 million under this and
earlier Bank loans could be committed to a single firm or group
of firms (para 79).



