LOCUBNTJ             LOAN NUMBER 1731 EC
Project Agreement
(Fourth Development Banking Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ECUATORIANA DE FINANCIAMIENTO S.A.
(ECUFINSA)
Dated      0-o0-b   31      , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1731 EC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        OkJL 3(            , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ECUATORIANA DE FINANCIAMIENTO S.A. (here-
inafter called ECUFINSA).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement Number 1731 EC, dated Decem-
ber 17, 1979, between Republic of Ecuador (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty
million dollars ($40,000,000) on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, for relending to COFIEC, CFN and New
Financieras (as such terms have been defined in the Loan Agree-
ment) one of which is ECUFINSA, but only on condition that, inter
alia, ECUFINSA agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS ECUFINSA, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
conte.  shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Estatuto" means the estatuto of ECUFINSA, dated
July 31, 1975, as amended to the date to this Agreement and
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b) "Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures"
means ECUFINSA's statement of operational and financial policies
approved by ECUFINSA's Board on October 20, 1980, as amended to
the date of this Agreement and as such Statement may be amended
from time to time; and
(c) "Total Portfolio" means all loans and investments made
and guarantees given by ECUFINSA and its Financial Subsidiaries


﻿-2-
(including deudores por aceptaciones, operaciones vencidas and
crfditos documentarios).
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ECUFINSA shall carry out its part of the
Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement and
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound
financial and investment practices and standards under the super-
vision of qualified and experienced management and in accordance
with its Estatuto and its Statement of Operating Policies and
Procedures.
Section 2.02. ECUFINSA shall: (i) enter into a Subsidiary,
Loan Agreement with the Borrower; (ii) exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the in-
terests of the Borrower, the Bank and ECUFINSA; and (iii) except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning, suspending or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. ECUFINSA shall be entitled, subject to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to use the proceeds
of the Loan as provided in Sections 2.02, 2.03 and 3.02 of the
Loan Agreement and in Schedule 2 to such Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ECUFINSA shall: (i) present Investment
Projects to the Bank for approval or for authorization, through
the Borrower; (ii) deliver withdrawal applications from the Loan
Account as provided in Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement; and
(iii) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such documents and
information as required pursuant to such Section.
(b) ECUFINSA shall calculate, in accordance with methods
satisfactory to the Bank, the financial and economic rates of
return of any project to be financed by ECUFINSA requiring: (i)
ECUFINSA's medium- and long-term financing of more than the
equivalent of $500,000; or (ii) a Sub-loan or Investment in an
amount exceeding the equivalent of $150,000; and shall furnish to
the Bank information on such rates of return, when presenting an
Investment Project to the Bank or whenever the Bank will request
such information in connection with projects financed by ECUFINSA
other than Investment Projects.


﻿3
Section 2.05. (a) ECUFINSA shall exercise its rights in rela-
tion to each Investment Project financed by it in whole or in part
out of the proceeds of the Loan in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, the Bank and ECUFINSA.
(b) ECUFINSA undertakes that, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on terms
whereby ECUFINSA shall obtain, by written agreement with the
Investment Enterprise or other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and
ECUFINSA, enabling the Borrower to carry out its obligations under
the Loan Agreement and including, without limitation, in the case
of any such Sub-loan and, to the extent that it shall be appro-
priate, in the case of any such Investment, the right to:
(i) cause such Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and management standards and to
maintain adequate records and documents;
(ii) apply to Sub-loans the financial terms and condi-
tions set forth or referred to in Section 3.04
of the Loan Agreement;
(iii) cause such Investment Enterprise to use the pro-
ceeds of the Loan exclusively to finance the
goods and services required to carry out the
Investment Project in respect of which such pro-
ceeds were withdrawn and ensure that such goods and
services shall be: (A) used exclusively in the
carrying out of such Investment Project; and (B)
purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors, such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance and repair
facilities and spare parts therefor and, in the
case of services, their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them;
(iv) ensure the Bank's and ECUFINSA's rights to inspect
such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in such Investment Project,


﻿-4-
the operation thereof and any relevant records
and documents;
(v) require that such Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound business practice
and that, without any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover marine, transit
and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
such Investment Enterprise to replace or repair
such goods;
(vi) obtain all such information as the Bank or ECUFINSA
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of such Investment Enterprise;
(vii) establish and amend, if necessary, the amortization
schedule applicable to the respective Sub-loan in
accordance with the corresponding provisions of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(viii) suspend or terminate access by such Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations to ECUFINSA.
Section 2.06. ECUFINSA shall take such steps, satisfactory to
the Bank, as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
various currencies (including Sucres) used in its operations.
Section 2.07. (a) ECUFINSA shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans
and Investments, and the administration, operations and financial
condition of ECUFINSA (including any proposal to create, acquire
or take over a Subsidiary).


﻿-5-
(b) ECUFINSA shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project financed
by ECUFINSA (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of ECUFINSA, and shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(c) ECUFINSA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as
soon as available but, in any case, not later than five months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
audited financial statements for such year and (B) the report of
such audit by such auditors of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (.) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of ECUFINSA and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 2.08. (a) The Bank and ECUFINSA shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomp-
lished. To that end, the Bank and ECUFINSA shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by ECUFINSA of its obligations under this Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of ECUFINSA and any other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) ECUFINSA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
(including the incurrence of losses by reason of its borrowing
operations outside the territories of the Borrower) which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service of the
Subsidiary Loan or the performance by ECUFINSA of its obligations
under this Project Agreement.
Section 2.09. ECUFINSA shall not amend, repeal -or fail to
comply with its Estatuto or its Statement of Operating Poli-
cies and Procedures without the Bank's prior consent.
Section 2.10. If ECUFINSA shall sell, lease, transfer,
mortgage or otherwise dispose of or encumber its property or
assets, except in the ordinary course of its operations and only


﻿-6-
as permitted by its Statement of Operating Policies and Proce-
dures, ECUFINSA shall, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, promptly repay an amount of the Subsidiary
Loan equivalent to the fair value of such property or assets or
make other arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank
to protect or secure the interests of the Borrower.
Section 2.11. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ECUFINSA shall not incur or permit any of its Financial Subsidi-
aries to incur any debt, if, after the incurring of any such debt,
the consolidated debt of ECUFINSA and its Financial Subsidiaries
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than ten times the
consolidated capital and surplus of ECUFINSA and its Financial
Subsidiaries.
(b) For the purposes of this Section and of'Section 2.15 of
this Agreement:
(i) "debt" means any debt incurred or guaranteed by
ECUFINSA or any of its Financial Subsidiaries;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement (including the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement), on the date and to the
extent that the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such contract or
agreement; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
shall have been entered into, but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding and
unpaid;
(iii) "consolidated capital and surplus of ECUFINSA and
its Financial Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of
the total unimpaired capital, legal reserves and
unappropriated retained earnings of ECUFINSA and
its Financial Subsidiaries after excluding there-
from such amounts as shall represent: (A) equity
interests of ECUFINSA in any of its Financial
Subsidiaries or of any such Financial Subsidiary in
ECUFINSA or in any other of its Financial Subsidi-
aries; and (B) provisions for losses on the out-
standing amount of all loans and investments
made or guarantees given by ECUFINSA as shall have
been determined by ECUFINSA to be adequate to cover


﻿-7-
the risk of such losses in accordance with sound
business and financial practices and ECUFINSA's
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures;
(iv) "unimpaired capital" means paid-up capital less
accumulated losses; and
(v) "consolidated debt of ECUFINSA and its Financial
Subsidiaries" means the total outstanding amount of
debt of ECUFINSA and its Financial Subsidiaries,
excluding therefrom any debt owed by ECUFINSA to
any of its Financial Subsidiaries or by any Subsi-
diary to ECUFINSA or any other of its Financial
Subsidiaries.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Sucres debt repayable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by ECUFINSA or its
Financial Subsidiaries for the purposes of servicing such debt.
(d) ECUFINSA shall- establish and maintain and shall cause
each of its Financial Subsidiaries to establish and maintain such
accounting procedures as shall be satisfactory to the Bank to
ensure, at all times, the disclosure of any debt of ECUFINSA or
its Financial Subsidiaries, including letters of credit issued or
guaranteed by ECUFINSA or any of its Financial Subsidiaries.
Section 2.12. (a) Except as the Bank and ECUFINSA shall
otherwise agree, the balance outstanding at any time after
December 31, 1980 of ECUFINSA's short-term portfolio shall not be
greater than eighty per cent (80%) of its Total Portfolio.
(b) For purposes of this Section, "ECUFINSA's short-term
portfolio" means loans made and guarantees given by ECUFINSA
and its Financial Subsidiaries (including deudores por acepta-
ciones, operaciones vencidas and creditos documentarios) having
an original final maturity of less than three years.
Section 2.13. (a) ECUFINSA shall at all times take all
steps necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to
carry on operations and shall take all steps necessary to maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its husiness.


﻿-8-
(b) ECUFINSA shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if any)
to observe and perform the obligations of ECUFINSA hereunder to
the extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.14. ECUFINSA shall, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, take all such steps, satisfactory to the Bank, as
shall be necessary to make monthly allocations to its provision
for doubtful receivables in order to establish by December 31,
1981 and maintain thereafter, such provision at a level of not
less than one per cent of its outstanding Total Portfolio.
Section 2.15. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) ECUFINSA shall not make a Sub-loan to or an Investment in an
Investment Enterprise exceeding the limits established in Section
3.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
(b) ECUFINSA shall limit the maximum aggregate exposure
of ECUFINSA to its stockholders with an equity interest of one
per cent (1%) or more to two hundred per cent (200%) of the
consolidated capital and surplus of ECUFINSA and its Financial
Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this paragraph, "aggregate
exposure of ECUFINSA to its stockholders" means the sum of all
outstanding loans and investments made and guarantees given by
ECUFINSA to its stockholders which form part of ECUFINSA's Total
Portfolio.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
upon its signature by the Bank and ECUFINSA.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of ECUFINSA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following three dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date on which the entire aggregate amount of
the outstanding principal of, and all interest and
other charges which shall have accrued on, every
Subsidiary Loan made by the Borrower to ECUFINSA,
shall have been paid by ECUFINSA; or


﻿-9-
(iii) the date on which the portion of the principal
of the Loan relent to ECUFINSA shall have been
repaid by the Borrower in advance of its agreed
maturity in accordance with the terms of the Loan
Agreement.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect rrotwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise
any right, power or remedy accruing to any party under this
Project Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right,
power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an
acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party
in respect of any default, or any acquiescence in any default,
affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in
respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 4.02. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For ECUFINSA:
Apartado Postal 3900
Guayaquil
Ecuador
Telex:
3411 ECUFIN ED
Section 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ECUFINSA may be taken or executed by
its Presidente or such other person or persons as ECUFINSA shall
designate in writing.
Section 4.04. ECUFINSA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of ECUFINSA, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by ECUFINSA pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 4.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ze   F. Ltu
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ECUATORIANA DE FINANCIAMIENTO S.A.
(ECUFINSA)
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this &L/ A   day of       , 1980.
FOR SECRETARY


