O AL.  LOAN NUMBER 1731 EC
tOC4ENTS
ffD 3 CE A I T SI
Project Agreement
(Fourth Development Banking Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Dated        be4twl-;   17         , 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1731 EC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         NcoUk& 17           , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL (hereinafter
called CFN).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Ecuador (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars
($40,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, for relending to CFN, COFIEC and New Financieras (as
such terms are defined in the Loan Agreement), but only on con-
dition that, inter alia, CFN agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS CFN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
shall have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term
"1977 Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement (Third
Development Finance Companies Project) between the Bank and CFN,
dated February 18, 1977.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CFN shall carry out its part of the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial and
investment practices and standards under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management and personnel and in accor-
dance with its Estatutos and the Statement of Operating Policies
and Procedures.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. CFN shall: (i) enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower; (ii) exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, the Bank and CFN; and (iii) not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning, suspending or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. CFN shall be entitled, subject to the provi-
sions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to use the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in Sections 2.02, 2.03 and 3.02 of the Loan
Agreement and in Schedule 2 to such Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) CFN shall: (i) present Investment Projects
to the Bank for approval or for authorization through the Bor-
rower; (ii) deliver withdrawal applications from the Loan Account,
all as provided in Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement; and (iii)
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such documents and
information as required pursuant to such Section.
(b) CFN shall calculate, in accordance with methods satis-
factory to the Bank, the financial and economic rates of return of
any project to be financed by CFN requiring: (i) medium- or long-
term financing by CFN of more than the equivalent of $500,000;
or (ii) a Sub-loan or Investment in an amount exceeding the
equivalent of $150,000; and shall furnish to the Bank information
on such rates of return, when presenting an Investment Project to
the Bank or whenever the Bank will request such information in
connection with projects financed by CFN other tlan Investment
Projects.
(c) For the purposes of this Section "medium- or long-term
financing" means an investment, loan or guarantee with a maturity
of three or more years.
(d) The provisions of this Section replace the provisions
of Section 2.03 of the 1977 Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) CFN shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project financed by it in whole or in part
out of the proceeds of the Loan in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and CFN.


﻿-3-
(b) CFN undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on terms whereby
CFN shall obtain, by written agreement with the Investment Enter-
prise or other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and CFN, enabling the
Borrower to carry out its obligations under the Loan Agreement,
and including, without limitation, in the case of any such Sub-
loan and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, in the case
of any such Investment, the right to:
(i) cause such Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and management standards and to
maintain adequate records and documents;
(ii) apply to Sub-loans the financial terms and condi-
tions set forth or referred to in Section 3.04
of the Loan Agreement;
(iii) cause such Investment Enterprise to use the pro-
ceeds of the Loan exclusively to finance the goods
and services required to carry out the Investment
Project in respect of which such proceeds were
withdrawn and ensure that such goods and services
shall be: (1) used exclusively in the carrying out
of such Investment Project; and (2) purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors, such as time of delivery
and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance and repair facilities
and spare parts therefor and, in the case of
services, their quality and the competence of the
parties rendering them;
(iv) ensure the Bank's and CFN's rights to inspect such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in such Investment Project, the operation
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(v) require that such Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice and that, without any limitation upon the


﻿foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery of the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, and that any indem-
nity thereunder shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by such Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods;
(vi) obtain all such information as the Bank or CFN
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of such Investment Enterprise;
(vii) establish and amend, if necessary, the amortization
schedule to the respective Sub-loan in accordance
with the corresponding provisions of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(viii) suspend or terminate access by such Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations to CFN.
Section 2.06. (a) CFN shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and
Investments and the administration, operations and financial
condition of CFN (including any proposal to create, acquire or
take over a Subsidiary).
(b) CFN shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project financed
by CFN (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of CFN and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(c) CFN shall: (i) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon
as available but, in any case, not later than five months after


﻿-5-
the end of each such year, certified copies of its audited finan-
cial statements for such year and the report of such audit by
such auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of CFN and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 2.07. (a) The Bank and CFN shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished.
To that end, the Bank and CFN shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their represen-
tatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the perfor-
mance by CFN of its obligations under this Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of CFN and any other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b) CFN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
(including the incurrence of losses by reason of its borrowing
operations outside the territories of the Borrower) which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service
of the Subsidiary Loan or the performance by CFN of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. If CFN shall sell, lease, transfer, mortgage
or otherwise dispose of or encumber its property or assets,
except in the ordinary course of its operations and only as
permitted by its Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures,
CFN shall, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, promptly repay an amount of the Subsidiary Loan equiva-
lent to the fair value of such property or assets or make other
arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank to pro-
tect or secure the interests of the Borrower.
Section 2.09. Except as the Bank and CFN shall otherwise
agree, CFN shall not incur or permit any of its Financial Subsi-
diaries to incur any debt if, after the incurring of any such
debt, the consolidated debt of CFN and all its Financial Subsi-
diaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than eight
times the consolidated capital and surplus of CFN and its Finan-
cial Subsidiaries.


﻿For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "Debt" means any debt incurred or guaranteed by CFN or
any of its Financial Subsidiaries.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement),
on the date and to the extent that the amount of the loan is
drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or
agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the Agreement providing for such guarantee shall have been entered
into, but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is out-
standing and unpaid.
(c) "Consolidated capital and surplus of CFN and its Finan-
cial Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the total unimpaired
capital, legal reserves and unappropriated retained earnings of
CFN and its Financial Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such
amounts as shall represent: (i) equity interests of CFN in any of
its Financial Subsidiaries or of any such Financial Subsidiary in
CFN or in any other of its Financial Subsidiaries; and (ii)
provisions for losses on the outstanding amount of all loans and
investments made or guarantees given by CFN as shall have been
determined by CFN to be adequate to cover the risk of such losses
in accordance with sound business and financial practices and also
with Section 2.11 (c) (i) of this Agreement.
(d) "Unimpaired capital" means paid-up capital less accu-
mulated losses.
(e) "Consolidated debt of CFN and its Financial Subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of CFN and its Financial
Subsidiaries, excluding therefrom any debt owed by CFN to any
of its Financial Subsidiaries or by any Subsidiary to CFN or
any other of its Financial Subsidiaries.
(f) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Sucres debt repayable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by CFN or its
Financial Subsidiaries for the purposes of servicing such debt.
The provisions of this Section replace the provisions of
Section 2.11 of the 1977 Project Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 2.10. (a) CFN shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on operations and shall take all steps necessary to maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) CFN shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if any)
to observe and perform the obligations of CFN hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CFN
shall, inter alia, take all such steps, satisfactory to the Bank,
as shall be necessary: (a) (i) to prepare and present to the
Bank for comment, not later than June 30, 1980, a program aimed
at the disposition of current loans, guarantees and equity invest-
ments in a single firm, or group of related firms, whose combined
amounts shall exceed the exposure limits established in CFN's
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures; and (ii) to carry
out such program in a manner and according to a timetable satis-
factory to the Bank; (b) (i) to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
various currencies (including Sucres) used in its operations; not
later than June 30, 1980, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for
approval, a study to determine reasonable limits to CFN exposure
to foreign exchange risks, such study to include a program for
reducing current CFN exposure to such risks to such limits and a
timetable for its execution, which shall be reviewed annually by
CFN and the Bank; (ii) to put into effect such program in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) the provisions of this para-
graph (b) replace the provisions of Section 2.06 of the 1977
Project Agreement; and (c) (i) maintain, within limits which shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, its provisions for losses on the
outstanding amount of all loans and investments made or guarantees
given by CFN; and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph (c)
replace the provisions of paragraph (ii) of Section 2.01 (b) of
the 1977 Project Agreement.
Section 2.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
CFN shall not make a Sub-loan to or an Investment in an Investment
Enterprise exceeding the limits established in Section 3.02 (b) of
the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
Section 2.13. CFN shall take all necessary measures to
amend, to the extent required by the Bank, CFN's Statement of
Operating Policies and Procedures in respect of:
(i) the amendment of Article VII Section 20 thereof
to reflect the provisions of Section 2.09 of
this Agreement; and
(ii) the amendment of Article VII Section 17 thereof
to provide for the maintenance of CFN's equity
valued in Sueres of constant purchasing power.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank and of CFN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following three dates:
(i) t le date on which the Loan Agreement shall termi-
na.e in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date on which the entire aggregate amount
of the outstanding principal of, and all interest
and other charges which shall have accrued on,
every applicable Subsidiary Loan, shall have
been paid by CFN; or
(iii) the date on which the portion of the principal
of the Loan relent to CFN shall have been repaid
by the Borrower in advance of its agreed maturity
in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement shall terminate pursuant to
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions, the Bank shall promptly
notify CFN of this event.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01 No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise
any right, power or remedy accruing to any party under this
Project Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right,
power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an
acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party
in respect of any default, or any acquiescence in any default,
affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in
respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 4.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and.Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For CFN:
Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional
Apartado No. 163
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:
CORFINAL
Quito


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CFN may be taken or executed by its
Gerente General or such other person or persons as CFN shall
designate in writing.
Section 4.04. CFN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of CFN, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed, by CFN pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 4.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By I!J~~        j~J7  ~t-
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
By  /31 0     C
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /    Lday of Dele       1971.
FOR SECRETARY


