 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14916

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/07/2016

               Country: Brazil
             Project ID: P093787                                                   Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Bahia State Integrated       Project Costs (US$M):                     75.00            216.15
                         Project: Rural Poverty

  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      54.35                 84.35
      Sector Board:        Agriculture and Rural      Cofinancing (US$M):
                           Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                 09/01/2005
                                                                Closing Date:             07/31/2010          01/31/2014
          Sector(s):       General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (36%); Other social services (18%);
                           Sub-national government administration (18%); Transmission and Distribution of Electricity
                           (16%); Water supply (12%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (33%); Participation and civic engagement (33%);
                           Indigenous peoples (17%); Municipal governance and institution building (17%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
J. W. Van Holst            John R. Eriksson        Christopher David         IEGPS1
Pellekaan                                          Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The Loan Agreement for the Bahia State Integrated Project: Poverty Reduction in Brazil (known locally as Produzir II
) stated that the project's development objective (PDO) was "to increase social and economic opportunities for the
municipalities’ rural poor" (Schedule 2). It followed Produzir I as the second project in a two phase program.

The development objective for an Additional Financing Loan (also referred to as Produzir III) was identical to the
objective in the original Loan Agreement.

The project appraisal document (PAD) stated that the project's objective was to "increase social and economic
opportunities for the rural poor in Bahia".

In conformance with the Guidelines for preparing ICR Reviews the PDO defined in the Loan Agreement will be used in
this Review against which to assess the project's achievements.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

 c. Components:
 This project's PAD described three components which were not changed during implementation despite restructuring
and considerable additional financing by the Bahia State Government and the Bank. The components are described
below..
Component 1: Community Sub-projects (appraisal cost US$66.06 million; actual cost US$182.55 million). The
increased cost was due to higher than anticipated average costs of sub-projects which were more than double the
original estimates (ICR, para 2.4.4), a devaluation of the Brazilian Real during most of the project's implementation, as
well as the additional financing (US$30 million) covering all the project's components. The project also benefitted
from a larger than expected government counterpart funding. This component was intended to provide community
matching grants for about 2,500 small scale socio-economic infrastructure, education, health, cultural, environmental
and other productive investments aimed at raising the average Human Development Index (HDI) in these
communities. Community associations would identify potential investments, in line with an information campaign
conducted by the State to raise awareness of the low HDI levels and their meaning. Some 407 municipalities in Bahia
were to be covered, with 40 percent of project resources concentrated in the 100 poorest municipalities, in terms of
the elements of the HDI. The associations would operate and maintain the investments with assistance from the
project.

Component 2: Institutional Development (appraisal cost US$3.90 million; actual cost US$10.20 million). This
component was executed by the implementing agency, the State Company for Development and Regional Action -
CAR (the State Technical Unit-STU) but again costs were much higher than estimated at appraisal due to inflation, a
devaluation of the Brazilian Real during most of the project's implementation, as well as the additional financing
(US$30 million) covering all the project's components. As noted above, the project also benefitted from a larger than
expected government counterpart funding. The component financed:

(a) Technical assistance and training to support the mobilization and strengthening of Community Associations in their
role of identifying, preparing, operating and maintaining sub-project investments;
(b) Capacity-building for Project Municipal Councils (established to facilitate project implementation - not the municipal
councils that are part of the government's administrative structure) to improve their ability to assess the community
associations' sub-project proposals, and to supervise their implementation, participatory planning, and financial and
environmental management);
(c) Training and technical assistance; and
(d) Workshops and seminars for Project Municipal Councils (MCs) and community associations in order to exchange
experiences concerning project implementation, and to facilitate integration of other Federal and State programs for
poverty reduction. However, after 2006 (following the establishment of a new State Government) the capacity of
many Project MCs declined after political changes in the State government in 2006. The functions of many Project
MCs were replaced by Territorial Councils/Colleges which had a broader mandate. However, in 2011 the capacity
and functions of Project MCs were restructured as MCs for Sustainable Development which were better able to
represent community associations (ICR Annex 2, para 2.25).

Component 3: Project Administration , Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation (appraisal cost US$3.30 million; actual
cost US$23.40 million). This component financed the costs (excluding salaries) of the State Technical Unit (CAR)
which was responsible for project administration, monitoring and impact evaluation. The substantial cost increase
was, according to officials in the CAR, due to the additional administrative cost incurred by the project because of the
complementary funding equivalent to $206 million made available by various government institutions. The
complementary funding financed additional sub-projects which were implemented by the Government separately from
the core project but with the support of CAR using the project's core methodology, administration, and monitoring and
evaluation apparatus.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Costs: The original estimated project cost was US$75.00 million but, following additional financing from the
Bank (US$30 million) and additional contributions from the State Government (US$111.15 million) the project's total
actual cost when it closed became US$216.15 million.

Financing: Total financing of US$54.35 million approved by the Bank at appraisal by the Bank, but following
Additional Financing from the Bank of US$30 million it was increased to US$84.35 million.
The Japanese Social Development Fund (JSDF) Grant of R$1,555,200 (TF058071) under its Sustainability Window to
the National Confederation of Agricultural Workers (CONTAG) financed a “Linking Grass Roots Producer
Organizations to Global Markets” pilot Project. As noted in the ICR (para 3.5.8) the Grant Agreement was amended in
August 2011 providing CONTAG with another R$100,000 (TF10751). Together these two grants amounted to the
equivalent of US$1.7 million of supplementary funding.
Subsequently a JSDF Grant equivalent to US$877,614 (TF P118988) financed activities entitled “Leveling the Playing
Field for Quilombola (Indigenous) Communities in Northeastern Brazil” (ICR, para 3.5.11 and Annex 2, Appendix 3).

Borrower Contribution : The Government commitment to the project at appraisal was US$20.65 million, but the
Government's actual contribution to the core project by the time it closed was US$131.80 million. As noted already
the project leveraged supplementary funding from various government institutions in Bahia State equivalent to
US$206 million which was used for the same types of sub-projects in additional areas within Bahia and managed by
the State Technical Unit (CAR) for Produzir II. In addition the Japanese Social Development Fund provided
supplementary funding through two grants with the equivalent of US$1.7 million.

Dates: The following dates were important for the project's implementation

    Approval of Additional Financing June 29, 2009 (ICR Data Sheet, Section F)

    The closing date for the original project did not change from July 31, 2010. However, the closing date for the
     Additional Financing was extended from July 31, 2010 to January 3`1, 2014.

Project Restructuring :

    The first level II restructuring was approved on March 11, 2010 when US$3.1 million in the original project were
     reallocated to Categories 1(a) and 1(b), namely for Area A and Area B community sub-project grants, and the
     target for the total sub-projects implemented was reduced from 2,500 to 1959 because actual average costs per
     sub-project were higher than appraisal estimates.

    Additional Financing (AF) of US$30 million was approved by the Bank in July 2009, but the loan did not become
     effective until January 2011 because of delays in the receipt of Government legal approval. The project
     development objective, components and the terms and conditions for the AF were the same as those for the
     original project. On the other hand the results matrix and some PDO indicators were revised.

    The second level II restructuring was in July 27, 2012 when US$675,000 of the AF loan funds were reallocated
     from an unallocated amount to Category 2 (Consultants’ Services/Training), and Category 2 was revised to
     include “goods”. In addition the target for sub-projects financed under the AF was reduced from 800 to 500 due
     to the higher than anticipated cost of sub-projects.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High
Produzir II was Bahia’s fourth in a series of community driven development (CDD) projects dating from 1993 (ICR,
para 1.1.2). Its objective was "to increase social and economic opportunities for the municipalities’ rural poor".
According to the PAD the Bank had for many years "maintained a long-term partnership with the State and Federal
governments to deliver targeted rural poverty (reduction) projects in Northeast Brazil" (ICR, para 1.1.4). However, in
some states such as Bahia the human development index (measured by UNDP in terms of life expectancy at birth,
schooling, and real GNP per capita remained low. This was vividly described in the PAD which stated that in 2005
Bahia (the largest state in Northeast Brazil) had a Human Development Index (HDI) which ranked 22nd among
Brazil's 26 states despite having improved from an index of 0.386 in 1991 to 0.512 in 2000 (page 3).

In 2005 the overall incidence of poverty in Bahia state was 39 percent compared with 47 percent in rural areas,
meaning that roughly 2.8 million rural citizens were living in poverty. Deficiencies in basic services (not measured by
the HDI) were also severe. For example, in 2003 some 68 percent of rural Bahian households lacked piped water, 43
percent had no access to sanitation services, and 36 percent lacked electricity, compared with, respectively, with 12,
5 and 1 percent for urban Bahia and 42, 28 and 18 percent for all rural areas in Brazil.

In light of the low HDI levels, high rates of poverty and the low levels of social services this project's objective was
consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for FY04-07 which "called for successive projects under the
Northeast program to focus increasingly on integrating CDD efforts more closely with other government activities in
participating municipalities" where "CDD projects contributed collectively to a significant improvement in basic rural
services region-wide, and promoted social capital formation" (ICR, para 1.1.4). At exit the project remained relevant
to the contemporary Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2012-15.

The project's objectives were also relevant to the State Government's own development strategy as reflected in the
objectives of the State's Multi Year Investment Program (PPA) for 2004-2007 namely "(a) integrating directly with the
Programa de Gerenciamento dos Recursos Hidricos and PROAGUA – using CDD techniques to deliver small-scale
investments in rural water supply while encouraging community participation and consultation for larger public works;
(b) complementing the then proposed Viver Melhor (Live Better) Urbano II project, with Viver Melhor Rural in the rural
parts of the same municipalities as the urban operation; and (c) emphasizing education, health, culture, natural
resource management and environmental sustainability, the first two – along with income generation – linked directly to
the HDI. Produzir II was one of six Bank supported projects viewed by the State as having strategic importance by
directly addressing ten and indirectly another nine of the 37 programmatic areas in the State’s multi-year investment
program (PPAs). Funds provided by the six Bank operations represented about seven percent of the State’s 2004
budget (ICR, para 1.1.5). The state government's long term goal was to increase the HDI from 0.688 to 0.766 (the
Brazil median) by 2020. This was backed by a strategic development program (Plano Estrategico da Bahia for
2003-2020) which "sought social justice and cohesion, environmental sustainability, spatial integration and, economic
diversification and competitiveness" (ICR, page 1).

b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial

As noted in the PAD (Annex 1, page 18) Produzir II was designed to complement other Bank supported projects
using community driven development (CDD) approach to deliver small-scale investments in rural water supply and
sanitation, while encouraging community participation and consultation for larger public sector works. This project
sought to "strengthen cross-sectoral integration, providing greater emphasis on education, health, culture, natural
resource management, links between the rural and urban space, and environmental sustainability. The project's
design was therefore substantially relevant to the project's development objective of "increasing social and economic
opportunities for the municipalities’ rural poor".

The project's two main activities were germane to the project's objectives. The first was the financing of community
development projects aimed at raising HDI levels through an appraisal projection of 2,500 small-scale investments
(sub-projects) to improve socio-economic infrastructure and social services. The second was the strengthening of
Community Associations and Project Municipal Councils (MCs) through joint workshops to integrate six key state
strategies for rural areas so that they could together play a leading role in the project's implementation of sub-projects.
New projects were to be aligned with state development strategies and build synergies and links with other operations
such as the Bank supported Water Resources Management Project (PGRH) and Federal Water Resources
Management Project (PROAGUA), as well as those supported by other financiers (various government agencies or
the JSDF). Produzir I had piloted such integration which was expanded and mainstreamed in Produzir II, integrating
investments with a wider set of State and Federal poverty projects in health and sanitation, education and
environment to contribute to improving the state's HDI. This design for the Bank's support was also expected to
“leverage” non project resources at a ratio of 1:5 (para 1.1.4).

Within this design framework 40 percent of project resources were to be applied to the 100 poorest municipalities in
Area A in Bahia state based on their rank in the Municipal Human Development Index (as of the original project), while
the other 307 municipalities in Area B shared the remaining 60 percent (ICR, para 2.1.6).

While these elements in the project's design were all substantially relevant to the project's objective, the PAD results
matrix (Annex 3) provided an inadequate summary of the project's design since it was merely a listing of project
objectives and outcome indicators with no evidence of causal chains that reflected the theory of change between
project inputs, outputs, intermediate outcome and final project outcomes. This weakness in the results framework
was acknowledged in the ICR (para 2.3.2) and, although a more evolved framework was presented in the ICR (Annex
2), results chains were still absent. Nevertheless, the project's design and activities during implementation were clear
as were the roles of the participating institutions.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Substantial
As mentioned in Section 2a of this Review, the objectives for Produzir II and Produzir III (Additional Financing) were
the same, namely to "increase social and economic opportunities for the municipalities’ rural poor". The original Loan
Agreement elaborated on this objective by stating that increased social and economic opportunities would be
achieved by improving access of the poor to basic social and economic infrastructure and thus contribute to the
borrower's objective of increasing Bahia state's HDI

To assess the project's achievements the ICR used the results of a Final Evaluation Report on the project by the
University of Campinas (Unicamp 2014) to assess the project's outputs and outcomes. Annex 5 of the ICR contains a
detailed and informative summary of the information in the Unicamp Survey. However, the Unicamp survey had
some weaknesses. For example the survey report noted that there was "no baseline", "recall data" were unreliable
tending to "perceptions", and there were no data from a randomly selected "control group". As explained in the ICR
a control group was synthesized from a random selection of unsuccessful applicants for the sub-projects (Annex 2).
Additional data had been collected earlier by the Applied Economic Research Institute (IPEA) in 2012. These two
data sets provided the main information on the project's achievements in the ICR.

The following are the highlights of the numerous outputs generated by this project.
Outputs

    Coverage of Sub-Projects: In line with previous experience, the relatively lower level of organization and
     absorptive capacity of Area A municipalities than in Area B tended to skew financing towards the somewhat
     better equipped and organized, and less poor, Area B (ICR, para 2.1.6).

     - 1,558 sub-projects (SPs) were financed in 391 municipalities by the original project benefitting an estimated
     152,000 families of which 26 percent were in the poorest Area A and 77 percent in Area B. In comparison 1,037
     SPs were financed in 294 municipalities by the additional financing benefitting an estimated 113,000 families of
     which 25 percent were in the poorest Area A and 75 percent in Area B. ( ICR, Table, page 17).

    Water supply and sanitation : Domestic water supply was a central issue in this dry and drought prone region.
     1,708 water supply and sanitation investments (household cisterns, water supply systems, sanitation facilities
     and dams) were implemented under the original project. Additional financing accounted for 63 percent of the
     total 2,695 sub-projects (SPs) that received financial support. It was estimated that about 100,000 families or the
     equivalent of 450,000 people benefitted (ICR, para 3.2.2).

    Economic opportunity : The sum of financial resources available for this project (equivalent to US$216.15 million)
     reached an estimated 127,000 poor rural families as a result of 785 investments in agricultural mechanization,
     manioc mills and a range of agricultural processing activities (ICR, paras 3.1.2 and 3.2.5). The ICR asserts,
     however, that the project was never intended to provide full time employment as implied by one of the PDO
     indicators. Rather it was aimed at generating income to contribute to the welfare of poor families (ICR, para
     3.2.5).

    Agricultural mechanization and Employment : An estimated 94 percent of productive investments generated
     some employment. Agricultural mechanization (431 tractors and equipment as well as 94 modern manioc mills
     represented 67 percent of all productive sub-projects (SPs), based on typically two full-time
     operator/maintenance positions per SP during relevant seasons. The project annually created an estimated 1,050
     jobs from these two types of investments although the ICR made it clear that these jobs were only full time during
     the planting and harvesting seasons (ICR, para 3.2.6) .

Outcomes

    Human Development Index Changes : Between 2000 and 2010 the HDI for Bahia state and its three components
     improved as shown in the table below (UNDP data). The ICR acknowledged (para 3.2.2) that the extent to which
     the changes in state HDIs were attributable to the project could not be measured. Nevertheless the state's
     national ranking stayed at 22nd in Brazil. The HDI will not be measured again until 2020 (ICR, para 2.3.3).
     Hence other indicators are needed to measure the extent to which this project generated increased social and
     economic opportunities for the rural poor.

                  Bahia HDI and Sub-Indices for Longevity , Education and Real Per Capita Income
               Year        Human Development       HDI-M Longevity       HDI-M Education       HDI-M Per Capita
                                  Index                                                          Real Income
               2000               0.512                  0.680                 0.332                0.594
               2010               0.660                  0.783                 0.555                0.663

Source: UNDP

    Social Benefits: Some 54 percent of beneficiaries reported improved family health compared to 37 percent in the
     control group (ICR, 3.2.3). This conclusion indicated that the project had increased the social opportunities of the
     rural poor.

    Water Supply and Sanitation : Some 79 percent of water supply and sanitation (WSS) beneficiaries stated that
     the project had improved their health. Further, 96 percent of beneficiary households reported better drought
     resilience, 96 percent said water quality was better and 58 percent believed their water sub-projects improved
     child and elder health (ICR, para 3.2.3). There was no information in the ICR on these perceptions for the
     control group. Some specific outcomes were as follows which indicate substantial health benefits from the
     project and hence increased social opportunities for the rural poor.

          - Water and sanitation infrastructure led to immediate health improvements in terms of reduced water-borne
          diseases for municipalities with no or low ex-ante sanitation such as: hepatitis (9 to 1 percent);
          schistosomiasis (13 to 5 percent); parasitic infections (41 to 23 percent) and diarrhea (45 to 35 percent) -
         see ICR, para 3.2.3.
         - Some 96 percent of beneficiaries surveyed also said that sanitation installations had benefited children and
         the elderly. Close to three-quarters of all beneficiary households perceived improved quality of life, linked to
         their sub-project, whereas only 53 percent of the control group observed such improvement (ICR, para 3.2.3)


    Improvements in Income Generated by Sub -Projects. Even taking the impact of drought into account and the
     modest scale of most investments, the project’s productive activities demonstrated capacity to increase income.
     For the University of Campinas' (Unicamp’s) treatment group, 49 percent of beneficiaries of productive
     investments said they were better off and 14.2 percent said they were worse off. Among the control groups, 42.3
     percent said they were better off and 30.4 percent worse off. Some 45 and 54 percent of beneficiaries of tractor
     operations and manioc mills respectively, said their income had improved as a result of the project. The Unicamp
     survey also found, however, that "Some 43 percent of income came from pensions and the conditional cash
     transfer program (Bolsa Familia), illustrating the high dependence of such families on social programs (ICR, page
     57). IPEA data showed average per capita income in households in rural areas increased between 2001 to 2009
     with a stronger upward trend from 2006 onwards (see ICR, para 3.2.5 and Annex 2, Appendix 2). While not all
     improvements in income are attributable to the project, some activities (e.g. the provision of tractors, improved
     domestic water supplies and sanitation) would have had direct effect of increasing economic opportunities for the
     rural poor.

    Food Security: Despite the perception of food security being relatively equal between treatment and control
     sub-projects (52.2 percent and 48 percent respectively), the decline of food security was much higher for the
     control group (14 percent) than the treatment group (3 percent). Unicamp (2014) noted however, that income
     transfer programs (Bolsa Familia) in the control groups may also have played a role here (ICR, para 3.2.3). The
     response from CAR to IEG questions on the reason for the different food security changes during implementation
     stated that "... there was greater participation by the treatment group" in the Government's Food Security
     Program " which could be associated with technical guidance which the beneficiaries received through training
     and other activities supported by the Program".

 5. Efficiency:
  Modest
The analyses of efficiency in the PAD and the ICR were based on cost effectiveness, internal rates of return, and cost
benefit ratios. This section first reviews briefly the methodology used in the PAD and then reviews the analysis of the
project's efficiency in the ICR.

(a) Methodology used in the PAD

Cost effectiveness : The PAD (page 13) asserted that several aspects of project design helped to ensure that
investments represented the least-cost, best alternative. They were (a) demand-driven nature of sub-project; (b) the
use of standard technical designs and cost parameters; and (c) delegation of sub-project implementation directly to
the community associations.

Internal rates of return . The PAD stated that the most common community sub-projects in Northeast Brazil had IRRs
that exceeded 30 percent. Recent IRR assessments in Bahia produced results which, while lower, were consistent
with previous findings and robust vis-a-vis decreases in outputs and their prices and increases in costs (page 13).

Benefit-cost ratios were high (greater than 2.0) for the main productive sub-projects analyzed. According to the PAD
analysis of these sub-projects also suggested that investments would be financially sustainable because cost
recovery fees covered operation and maintenance costs (page 13).

(b) Methodology used in the ICR

Data used to estimate efficiency . Most estimates of efficiency were based on either (i) primary data analysis
conducted in early 2014 on a random sample of sub-projects by the University of Campinas (SP) Development
Foundation (Funcamp); or (ii) secondary data from similar productive sub-projects financed under the Produzir I
program in Bahia, as well as secondary evidence from Bank financed CDD projects in other states in NE Brazil. This
dual approach was used because data collected and analyzed in 2014 were heavily impacted by severe and
persistent drought conditions throughout NE Brazil, including Bahia. The ICR stated that, taken together, the primary
and secondary data presented a balanced context in which to assess the efficiency of productive sub-projects (Annex
3, para 3.4). However, since the data sets were not complete the ICR clarified (Annex 3, para 3.5) that "For the
sample, sub-project data gaps, when present, were closed through the use of proxy estimates from similar
sub-projects (e.g. operation and maintenance)".
Seven types of investments accounted for 90 percent of all community sub-projects. They were water supply
including piped systems, household water cisterns and small-scale dams; household sanitation; agricultural
mechanization (tractors and equipment); honey collection and processing; manioc mills, and small bridges. .

Cost Effectiveness . The efficiency of water supply sub-projects was assessed in terms of their cost-effectiveness
assuming the same criteria used in the PAD, namely: (a) demand-driven investments tend to flow to the neediest.
According to studies by the University of Campinas (2014) targeted programs under the original project (OP) and
additional financing (AF) reached the intended beneficiaries; (b) community participation, through the Municipal
Councils (or their participatory alternates) ensured that investments made were the least cost solutions for the
community and that resources flowed into priority investments; and (c) data presented in the ICR (Annex 3, Table 2)
showed that costs of sub-projects by community associations were lower than similar works constructed by public
agencies. MIS data from the CAR indicated cost savings for cisterns and household sanitation were 50 and 18
percent respectively compared with the situation at appraisal.

Internal rates of return . Financial internal rates of return (FIRRs) calculated for 27 randomly sampled agricultural
mechanization, honey production and manioc mill sub-projects (all of which were affected by drought) were compared
with financial rates of return for similar investments in Bahia and other Northeast states under "without drought"
conditions. Results were as follows:.

    11 of the 19 mechanization operations (mainly tractors) sampled randomly (4.4 percent of the mechanization
     sub-projects) had low utilization rates because of drought and consequently FIRRs were negative. Results were
     better where usage was more intense and even at one-half of technical capacity utilization, the ICR concluded
     that it was sufficient to generate satisfactory returns suggesting that a majority could be viable under better
     climatic conditions (ICR, Annex 2, para 3.0).

    Similarly in the case of the three honey production sub-projects (5.4 percent of the honey sub-projects), drought
     resulted in a severe contraction of honey production well below installed capacity. FIRRs were negative for all
     operations. However, future prospects for recovery were judged to be good but would require credit and
     technical assistance to finance and repopulate hives (ICR, Annex 2, para 3.11).

    For the five manioc flour mills (four installed between 2006 and 2008 and the other in 2012), throughput was low
     because of low usage (12 percent) by the community associations due to drought affected manioc crops. The
     enterprises generated positive net operational revenues, but insufficient to compensate for the cost of
     investments. One sub-project achieved an FIRR of 0% and the others had negative rates of return between -8%
     and -11% (ICR, Annex 2, para 3.13).

The Counterfactual

In light of the negative impact of drought the ICR sought to establish rates of return under non drought conditions.
The following conclusions emerged (ICR, para 3.3.4)

    Based on "secondary data" the tractor operations and manioc mills implemented under non drought conditions
     showed FIRRs of 37.6 percent and 15.8 percent respectively, and in both cases, less than six years were
     required to recover the investment. These results took into account increased productivity and production.
    Undefined data from four other Northeast States (Pernambuco, Piaui, Minas Gerais and Sergipe) using the same
     project methodology generated FIRRs ranging from 25 to 39 percent for tractors and 17 to 63 percent for manioc
     mills.
    On this basis the ICR concluded that in "no-drought" conditions these investments would be economically viable.

The largest share of sub-project investments financed under Produzir II (i.e. the OP and the AF) was small-scale
infrastructure (65 percent), with productive investments accounting for some 30 percent and social investments the
remaining 5 percent. The infrastructure investments were primarily water supply systems, cisterns and household
sanitation. There was no analysis in the ICR of their economic or financial efficiency.

Administrative Costs .

Annex 1 of the ICR showed that the actual cost of the project's administration was 236.4 percent of the appraisal
estimate for the OP and 886.4 percent of appraisal for the AF. Both were explained by CAR’s immense effort to
leverage additional complementary funds from other State government programs which, when successful, greatly
enlarged CAR's scope of work. The complementary funds added up to US$206 million (see ICR, Annex 2, para 2,13).
The additional administrative costs for implementing the complementary funding for an additional set of activities in
Bahia State Government were not included in the project's cost estimates for the original project (OP) or later for the
additional funding (AF) for the project's activities. In effect the total administrative cost of US$7.80 million for the OP
plus US$15.6 million for the AF (a total of US$23.4 million) were used to implement a project whose effective cost was
US$216 million plus US$206 million (US$422 million) - or 5.5 percent of total costs. The ICR also indicated that it was
possible, but not verified, that the CAR's administrative costs to reconstitute the MCs were at least in part covered by
State Government counterpart funds under Component 3 (ICR, Annex 2, para 2.33).

Summary.

The ICR analyzed cost-effectiveness and the internal rates of return for all sub-projects except for infrastructure, but
they accounted for 65 percent of the total value of investments. According to the criteria established in the ICR, the
cost effectiveness of social services was substantial. However, for the analysis of the rates of return on income
generating sub-projects under drought conditions the ICR reported that there were no baseline data (para 2.3.1) and a
significant proportion of the data used for the analysis were based on proxy estimates or information from other
projects (Annex 3, para 3.5). Estimated rates of return under non-drought conditions showed better results, but the
data used for these estimates were also based on unspecified secondary data. Hence the conclusions from the
analysis of efficiency were subject to significant gaps and uncertainty. This Review therefore rates the overall
efficiency of the project as modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the project's objectives was rated high because it was expressly focused on poverty reduction and
improved prosperity in very poor rural communities. The design of the project was rated as substantial because it was
based on community managed sub-projects formulated and sub-projects were assessed and financed under the
guidance of well represented project municipal councils. There was evidence from beneficiaries that many services
such as water supplies and sanitation increased the social and economic opportunities of the rural poor. Droughts had
a negative impact on income generating investments, but there was adequate evidence that without drought the
project investments would have resulted in significant production increases for the rural poor. Overall therefore the
project's efficacy was rated as substantial. On the other hand efficiency was rated only modest because, while the
estimated cost effectiveness of improvements in social services was plausible, there were considerable uncertainties
about the reliability of the estimated rates of return for the income generating sub-projects. On balance the outcome
of the project was rated as moderately satisfactory .
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   There are four groups of sub-projects with different conditions for sustainability. The first was the quality of the
maintenance of the social services investments such as the water supplies. The ICR states that communities were
trained to maintain these systems. The second group was the cisterns and sanitation systems and sanitation. The
ICR states that they will be maintained by individual households already trained to do so. The third group was the
sustainability of the income generating sub-projects. For these the relevant communities or entrepreneurs managed
the mechanization of agriculture, manioc mills or honey production enterprises. Assuming they were profitable in non-
drought conditions these enterprises would, according to the ICR, be sustained if adequate maintenance of relevant
machinery and equipment were undertaken. This should be assured because the enterprise participants would have
had an incentive to implement maintenance programs. The fourth group of sub-projects was the concrete bridges
which were public investments and needed to be maintained by the municipalities. There is no mention of their
sustainability in the ICR.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:
 a. Quality at entry:
    There was a solid rationale for Produzir II. The PAD noted various studies providing evidence of strong
community support for the CDD method of service delivery in Produzir I . In Bahia state these successful CDD
projects were implemented with the support of participatory Municipal Councils and they promoted asset
accumulation for the poorest groups (Annex 1, page 18).

The ICR explained that Produzir II was prepared, negotiated and presented to the Board expeditiously (in about
five months) - based on the good relationships between Bank and Borrower teams, and familiarity with the target
population and the project's methodology (para 2.1.2).

Positive aspects of the original project's quality at entry mentioned in the ICR were: (i) scaling up of activities that
were successful under Produzir I; (ii) attention to indigenous and ethnic groups; (iii) targeting municipalities based
on relative HDI-M; and (iv) alignment of sub-project investments with the State’s HDI goals. Negative aspects
were, according to the ICR: (i) poorly designed original results framework (ii) weaknesses in the PAD (iii) lack of
analytical guidance for the design of income-generating sub-projects; (iv) lack of a strategy for education
investments which would have been relevant to improving the HDI; and (v) the absence of any planning for
environmental sub-projects (ICR, para 5.1.1). The PAD also lacked estimates of the number and description of
beneficiaries, discussion of gender, definition of results indicators in the main text, and discussion of participatory
processes/consultations (ICR, para 2.1.4).

With respect to the quality at entry for the Additional Financing (AF), the only issue mentioned in the ICR was the
outdated presentation of the role of municipal councils in the project document, but corrected rapidly and
comprehensively after AF effectiveness. Consequently this shortcoming did not affect the subsequent
implementation of the AF (ICR, para 2.2.4).

On balance this Review rates the project's quality at entry as moderately satisfactory because, although the
project was designed to scale up its successful predecessor, it did not take the opportunity to introduce a strategy
for an intensive focus on sub-projects that would comprehensively address education and the environment,
despite the fact that these two areas received considerable attention in the PAD's description of the project's
activities.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    According to the ICR the quality of supervision varied between the original project (OP) and additional
financing (AF), with the supervision of the AF being far better than for the OP. For the OP supervision missions
were described in the ICR as brief and unevenly spaced. While the Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs)
lacked substantive content, the ICR's Data Sheet shows that missions were quite evenly spaced (no less than 5
months apart and no more than 7 months apart). At the same time the ICR reported that Fiduciary and
Safeguards supervision by Bank specialists was consistently good quality. However, the MTR undertook no
analysis of the justification for the AF, provided no beneficiary survey, failed to restructure the results framework,
and did not recognize the weakened capacity of the project municipal councils to continue to assess the viability of
sub-projects. Nevertheless, the task team leader was stationed in Brasilia and had constant contact with the
government and the CAR which reduced the need for some negotiations on project adjustments at the MTR.

The ICR stated that the quality of the supervision for the AF was effective based on (i) a change in Bank task
management which led to a more rigorous relationship with the CAR; (ii) adoption of a more analytical approach to
supervision with a formalized framework for sub-project decision-making and resource allocation; (iii) putting CAR
on notice that solutions needed to be consistent with the methodology reflected both in the Loan Agreement and
Operational Manual; and (iv) supporting CAR in launching a state-wide effort to reconstitute and unify the
municipal councils (ICR, para 5.1.4).

On balance the rating of supervision is moderately satisfactory



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory
 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     ICR (para 5.2.1), the Government strongly supported the project through its counterpart funding which far
exceeded estimates under both phases. On the other hand whereas the Government did not support institutional
development of the project municipal councils in the original project, it did so following the Additional Financing.
This change, partly due to the Bank’s firm position and greater attention to the issue by the project's
implementation unit (CAR). The state-wide effort ongoing since 2012 to restructure/unify the municipal councils
tacitly assumed Government support. According to the ICR the Government saw the project as part of its rural
poverty reduction strategy, and as a key tool in expanding water supply to the many thousands of small, dispersed
communities which had no reliable potable water supplies. Despite the delay in approving the AF Government
strongly supported the AF. However, the delayed effectiveness (more than a year) had a negative impact on
implementation and caused the project's closing date to be extended.

Overall the Government's performance is rated as moderately satisfactory .

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Regional Development and Action Company or State Technical Unit (CAR) implemented the Project
rapidly and effectively, with both stages fully committed well before scheduled project closing. However, the ICR
faulted the CAR for not engaging the Bank in a dialogue on the status of the municipal councils (MCs) until 2011,
although the ICR acknowledges there was some complacency on the part of the Bank because of the project's
rapid implementation (para 5.2.2). Interim solutions to reconstitute the MCs and thereby support the community
associations were eventually launched through a state-wide process. The ICR indicated that CAR put a strong
effort into training the associations under both stages of the project to strengthen their social capital and “reduce
the methodological distance” created by the decline of the MCs. Finally, on the positive side, CAR’s resource
leveraging resulting in considerable complementary funding (mentioned in Section 2d of this Review) was
especially successful, as was its proactive use of the six month extension of the closing date for the AF during
which targets for the AF were exceeded (ICR, para 5.2.2).

Overall the implementation agency's performance was rated as moderately satisfactory.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   Produzir II benefited from a Management Information System (MIS) established for Produzir I. According to the
PAD the MIS was to be integrated across three dimensions, namely: (a) sub-project information module, which would
contain physical and financial information for each sub-project; (b) a financial management module, from which SOEs
would be generated; and (c) a project management module, from which all project reports would be generated. The
database would include community profiles, and quantitative variables relating to control groups with the aim of
improving the capacity to evaluate project impact. The on-line MIS was expected to allow real-time data entry by
technicians in CAR’s regional offices. The CAR would continue to be responsible for maintaining and regularly
updating the MIS, including key project information (ICR, page 10)

The Bank’s Recife Office was to monitor project performance indicators through the online MIS, and, with inputs from
the State, review monthly disbursement summaries and supervise implementation progress in a sample of
sub-projects
The ICR stated that evaluation studies were planned (continuing the program started under Produzir I ) including:
annual physical performance reviews; mid-term evaluation with beneficiary consultations; and final impact evaluations
using repeat surveys of beneficiaries and non beneficiaries. It was also stated in the ICR that no baseline study was
included; but the MIS profiles of sub-project applicants were used for this purpose.

At the same time the HDI (designed by UNDP) which measures achievements in human development based on three
indicators (life expectancy at birth, mean years of schooling, and real GNI per capita) were measured at the municipal
level in the state. This was an ancillary indicator invoked in the Loan Agreement for measuring progress towards an
increase in social and economic opportunities for the municipalities' poor - the project's objective.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The ICR noted that implementation of the M&E system had some shortcomings because the data collected were
not relevant to the project's results chain (para 2.3.4) Analysis of the project's implementation was based on several
sources of which the most important was the "Final Evaluation" by the University of Campinas (Unicamp, 2014). As
explained in Section 3.6 of the ICR this evaluation used a quasi-experimental design to analyze/present the main
outcomes of project interventions, defining for survey purposes two groups of sub-projects. They were (a) households
which benefited from the project (treatment group) and (b) a group of households which sought access to the project
but did not succeed (control group as described in section 4 of this Review). However, despite the aim of using MIS
data for beneficiaries as a proxy for baseline data, there were no baseline data to anchor the final evaluation. Instead
recall and perceptions were used in order to obtain some of the information for evaluation. The randomly selected
treatment group was 675 households in 42 municipalities implementing 132 sub-projects. The control group, was a
randomly selected 411 households in 39 municipalities, implementing 77 sub-projects (ICR, 3.6.1).

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Based on the material in the ICR it is apparent that the M&E system was not used to make adjustments to the
project's design or its implementation. The Unicamp Final Evaluation was a primary source for assessing this
project's efficacy in the ICR. The CAR used the Unicamp evaluation as the basis for a results dissemination
seminar/workshop which was summarized in Annex 6. In addition the ICR states that the survey was used in the
preparation of the "Sustainable Rural Development Project" in Bahia State approved in June 2014.

Overall the performance of the M&E system in this project was rated as modest because on its own it generated very
little information that was of value in either the management of the project or for reporting on its results

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project triggered two safeguard policies, namely Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) and Indigenous
Peoples (OD 4.20, revised as OP 4.10). The ICR stated that the "Implementation of the Environmental Management
Plan was strong institutionally, legally and operationally under both stages of the Project. Compliance with Bank
Safeguards and with all applicable State and Federal laws was satisfactory. All sub-projects were screened using a
long established and updated system prior to approval for financing to prevent, minimize or mitigate adverse
environmental effects" (ICR, para 2.4.1 a).

With respect to indigenous people, their traditional activities were mainly subsistence based agriculture and work in
extractive activities. The ICR stated that Produzir II prepared an Indigenous Peoples’ Participation Framework (IPPF)
to include mobilization, communication, training and capacity-building, and community investments." The ICR
explained that "indigenous groups accessed project benefits with support from the State Indigenous Peoples’ Council
(CEPI) and other social movements/NGOs using the Economia Solidaria strategy via agreements for inter-institutional
cooperation with relevant agencies – in this case CAR – to invest in poor rural communities." It was stated that 76
sub-projects valued at R$3.2 million benefited 7,288 indigenous families in 15 municipalities. According to the ICR,
"Compliance with the project’s indigenous peoples’ safeguards was satisfactory" (ICR, para 2.4.1b).

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management . The same FM system was used consistently under each phase of the project with key
improvements introduced under the OP and updated by the AF. The MTR recommended simplified documentation
required to be submitted to the Bank and auditors with respect to sub-project conclusion and use of funds by
stakeholders. Financial management performance was rated "satisfactory" throughout project implementation with
the exception of a downgrade to moderately satisfactory in 2011 due to minor shortcomings, namely delayed
submission of interim financial reports, delayed updates to the Operational Manual, and inconsistent statements of
expenditure. The CAR complied with the agreed corrective actions (ICR, para 2.4.2). Auditors’ opinions were
consistently Unqualified for Financial Statements and Special Opinions (ICR, para 2.4.3).

Procurement. Procurement Post Review missions generally rated procurement performance as satisfactory under the
OP and AF and procurement risk as average. The CAR and the community associations were assessed by the ICR
as conducting procurement and contracting in a sound manner, within a reasonable time, and in accordance with
Bank Guidelines (para 2.4.5).

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Gender Inclusion: The ICR noted that "the targeting female headed households was not an explicit part of the project
strategy" (Annex 2, para 2.8). Nevertheless, the ICR also states that of the 2,758 associations financed by the project,
844 or 31 percent were led by women and that this suggested that conditions for their participation were favorable
(para 3.5.1). On the other hand the Unicamp (2014) survey reported that CAR lacked a strategy for reaching and
prioritizing female headed households, as verified in the PAD and Operational Manual. About 74 percent of all
households participating in the project were led by men, whereas 39 percent of households in Bahia are female led
and poorer (ICR para 3.5.1)

 d. Other:
Leverage Achieved by the Project . It was planned that the project would attempt to leverage additional funds at a
ratio of 1:5 to enlarge the project's scope. Under the leadership of the State Technical Unit (CAR) Produzir II
leveraged, through formal partnerships with State and Federal programs, an aggregate R$413.48 million (US$206.0
million). This achievement represented a leverage ratio of 1.4 . The ICR provided a list showing that leveraged
resources financed investments benefiting an additional 127,130 poor rural families as follows:

    Agua para Todos (Federal Government, water supply): 63,900 families
    Productive sub-projects/Activities (Federal Government): 14,640 families
    Productive sub-projects/Activities (State Government): 36,190 families

See Annex 2, para 2.12 of the ICR


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR suggested that five lessons emerged from the project. However some such as the suggestion to focus
more on growth poles than broad CDD programs, and to weigh the costs and benefits of other programs with similar
objectives were not only making the similar points but were also part of basic appraisal methodology rather than
lessons from this project.

Three lessons in the ICR had substantive points to make. With some editing they were as follows::

(a) Natural resource management in CDD projects in rural areas can move beyond the traditional focus on
safeguards compliance . Utilizing simple, "climate-smart technologies" such projects could incorporate water
conservation and drought resistance strategies that would have long term pay-offs for poor producers.

(b) Monitoring and evaluation require intensive focus from the project preparation stage to closing and beyond .
While this is an old lesson this project again showed the folly of not establishing a sound M&E system based on a
logical results framework which includes clear results chains. Well documented results from successive projects
can contribute to an overall body of data/knowledge on addressing rural poverty through policy and projects.

(c) Rapid preparation of scaling up of Bank -supported completed projects needs to be balanced by the need to
step back to consider improvements in the project 's design. If scaling up is the only objective a follow-on project
may not address the changing needs of the client and the poor. Nor might the follow-on project address the
weaknesses in its predecessor such as the absence of a focus on marketing in Produzir II , or be aligned with a
changing economic or social context.

An additional lesson . This project showed the potential for leveraging complementary funds from other sources
within the country in order to substantially extend the project's impact and benefits. The success in this project
indicates possibilities in the future in Brazil and other middle income countries.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was frank and very comprehensive in its coverage of issues and events during the project's implementation.
For example, it clearly noted weaknesses in the Unicamp survey which made it difficult to reach definitive conclusions
on some of the project's outcomes.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
