                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00003027



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-76220)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.4 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                         UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                   FOR A

        RESULTS-BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING PROJECT



                                June 30, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 10, 2014)
                           Currency Unit=Mexican Pesos
                             US$ 1.00 = MXP $13.05
                               MXP $1 = US$ 0.076

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 – December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CONEVAL   National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy (Consejo
          Nacional de Evaluación de la Política de Desarrollo Social)
GoM       Government of Mexico
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
IFAI      Federal Institute for Access to Public Information and Data Protection (Instituto
          Federal de Acceso a la Información y Protección de Datos)
IT        Information Technology
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFIN     Development Banking Institution (Financial Agent: Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
NDP/PND   National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarollo)
OECD      Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
PBR       Results Based-Budgeting (Presupuesto Basado en Resultados)
PFM       Public Financial Management
PGCM      Close and Modern Government Program (Programa de Gobierno Cercano y
          Moderno)
PI        Performance Information
PMG       Management Improvement Program (Programa de Mejora de la Gestión)
PSBR      Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
RBB       Results-based budgeting
SE        Undersecretary of Expenditures (Subsecretaría de Egresos)
SED       Performance Evaluation System (Sistema de Evaluacion del Desempeno)
SFP       Ministry of Public Administration (Secretaría de la Función Pública)
SHCP      Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito
          Público)
SIDAFF    Integrated Federal Financial Management System (Sistema Integral de
          Administración Financiera Federal)
SIGAIF    Harmonized Governmental Financial Information System (Sistema
          Gubernamental Armonizado de Información Financiera)
SISED     Performance Evaluation Program Information System (Sistema de Información
          para el Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño)

                          Vice President: Jorge Familiar
                        Country Director: Gloria M. Grandolini
                         Sector Manager: Arturo Herrera Gutierrez
                    Project Team Leader: Pedro Arizti
                       ICR Team Leader: Pedro Arizti
                                          MEXICO
                        Results-based Management and Budgeting Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 33
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                       MX Results-based
Country:                Mexico                  Project Name:          Management and
                                                                       Budgeting
Project ID:             P106528                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-76220
ICR Date:               06/30/2014              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                       MEXICO
Original Total
                        US$ 17.2M               Disbursed Amount:      US$ 0.37M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         US$ 4.4M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Publico (SHCP)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:         09/20/2007   Effectiveness:          03/19/2010       03/19/2010
Appraisal:              10/02/2008   Restructuring(s):                        11/15/2012
Approval:               12/11/2008   Mid-term Review:        02/06/2012
                                     Closing:                12/31/2013       12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                     Ratings
                        Moderately                                    Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing               Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower           Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:               Unsatisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                          No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Managing for development results                                       50                  50
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                       50                  50
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Arturo Herrera Gutierrez             Nicholas Paul Manning
Project Team Leader:       Pedro Arizti                         Roberto Adrian Senderowitsch
ICR Team Leader:           Pedro Arizti
ICR Primary Author:        Azul Del Villar


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project is to establish that federal departments and agencies in
Mexico provide decision makers and the public with rigorous, timely, user-friendly information
on the efficiency and effectiveness of government organizations and program expenditures.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objective of the project is to strengthen the Ministry of Finance’s (Secretaría de Hacienda y
Crédito Público, SHCP) capacity to (i) allow the use of standardized performance information of
priority public programs during budget preparation; (ii) generate harmonized subnational fiscal
information; and (iii) disseminate budget performance information to the Borrower's citizens on a
regular basis.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
                 Performance information using a performance framework is generated and used
Indicator 1 :
                 during budget request discussions between line secretariats and SHCP.
                                                               Performance
                                                               information
                                                               (PI) is used by
                                                               SHCP during Performance
                                                               budget           information (PI)
                 Performance is not widely
                                                               preparation in presented in a
                 used by line secretariats
                                                               conversation timely fashion to
                 in their budget requests.
                                                               with line        Congress in a
                 Budget preparation
                                                               ministries.      format that allows
Value            discussions are mainly
                                                               SHCP             interpretation and
(quantitative or focused on inputs and are
                                                               uses             meets their needs.
qualitative)     not based on standardized
                                                               standardized Content includes
                 performance information
                                                               performance outcome and output
                 that allow to measure
                                                               information measures. Line
                 relevance, efficiency of
                                                               that allow to ministries send
                 programs.
                                                               measure          budget requests to
                                                               relevance,       SHCP with PI.
                                                               efficiency of
                                                               effectiveness
                                                               of programs.
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                       12/31/2013       12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
                 An active network and a portal to inform civil society at large on a regular basis
Indicator 2 :
                 about budget performance increasing transparency and accountability to citizens.
                                                               There is a
                                                               portal
                                                               containing
                                                                                Portal containing PI
                                                               financial and
                 Budget performance                                             on budget
                                                               non-financial
                 information is readily                                         performance is
Value                                                          performance
                 available to civil society                                     available to citizens
quantitative or                                                information
                 via the new portal but has                                     + Citizen’s Budget
Qualitative)                                                   about the
                 not been expanded to all                                       + Citizen’s Public
                                                               budget and its
                 levels of Government.                                          Accounts (Cuenta
                                                               process
                                                                                Pública)
                                                               available for
                                                               citizens, and
                                                               the
                                                               information
                                                               has been
                                                               expanded to
                                                               all the levels
                                                               of
                                                               Government.
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                       12/31/2013     12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved, the portal site address is: www.transparenciapresupuestaria.gob.mx
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Percent of public programs with improved strategic design and reporting
                                                                               The majority of the
                                                                               programs have a
                                                               For the 2013
                                                                               more robust design
                                                               budget
                                                                               across key
                                                               preparation the
                                                                               dimensions
                In 2008 the percentage of                      percentage of
Value                                                                          (objectives,
                public programs using                          programs
quantitative or                                                                indicators,
                performance information                        using
Qualitative)                                                                   baselines, links to
                was 28%.                                       performance
                                                                               strategies) enabling
                                                               information is
                                                                               better reporting and
                                                               set to be over
                                                                               evaluation. (832
                                                               75%.
                                                                               programs out of
                                                                               984)
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                       12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved at 84.5%
achievement)
                Percent of municipalities that have a simplified financial management system
Indicator 4 :
                installed and working.
                                                               Around 80%
                                                               of              The Accounting
                                                               approximately Unit changed
Value                                                          1,200 small priorities to focus
quantitative or 0                                              municipalities on developing the
Qualitative)                                                   (of total       Government
                                                               approximately Accounting System
                                                               2,500           (SCG) first.
                                                               municipalities)
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                       12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                Number of municipalities that have been trained in the use of the new municipal
Indicator 1 :
                simplified FMIS.
                                                                              Pilot of
                                                                              Harmonized
                                                                              Governmental
                                                                              Financial
                                                                              Information System
                                                                              (SIGAIF) installed
                                                              Around 80%
                                                                              in some
Value                                                         of
                                                                              municipalities, not
(quantitative                                                 approximately
                                                                              operational though.
or Qualitative)                                               1,200 small
                                                                              The Accounting
                                                              municipalities
                                                                              Unit changed
                                                                              priorities to focus
                                                                              on developing the
                                                                              Government
                                                                              Accounting System
                                                                              (SCG) first.
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                      12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved
achievement)
                Functional design developed for the amplified FMIS that will cover the
Indicator 2 :
                decentralized institutions in the Government.
                                                                              The Accounting
                                                              SIDAFF has a Unit changed
Value                                                         module          priorities to focus
(quantitative   Non existent                                  designed for on developing the
or Qualitative)                                               decentralized Government
                                                              institutions. Accounting System
                                                                              first.
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                      12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved
achievement)
                Design of a conceptual model for integration of financial information in
Indicator 3 :
                municipalities, states and federation.
                                                              SIDAFF has a The Accounting
                                                              module          Unit changed
Value
                                                              designed for priorities to focus
(quantitative   Non existent
                                                              integrating all on developing the
or Qualitative)
                                                              three levels of Government
                                                              Government. Accounting System
                                                                            first.
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                      12/31/2013    12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved
achievement)
                Design and dissemination of a number of strategic evaluations (e.g. security
Indicator 4 :
                policy, water policy, education).
                                                              Strategic
                                                              social and      Three strategic
                                                              non-social      evaluations were
Value
                                                              evaluations     published in the
(quantitative   Non existent
                                                              carried out and Budget
or Qualitative)
                                                              disseminated Transparency Portal
                                                              through the     in April 2014.
                                                              portal.
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                      12/31/2013      04/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Design of terms of reference for non-social program evaluations.
                                                                              SHCP has advised
                                                                              on adapting ToR to
                                                                              conduct program
                                                              Terms of
                                                                              evaluations other
                                                              Reference
Value                                                                         than social, and on
                                                              (ToR) for non-
(quantitative   Non existent                                                  revising the ToR of
                                                              social program
or Qualitative)                                                               the Consistency and
                                                              evaluations
                                                                              Results evaluations
                                                              available.
                                                                              as well as the Cost
                                                                              Effectiveness for
                                                                              non social programs
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                      12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved
achievement)
                Development of a methodology and guidelines for better social program
Indicator 6 :
                focalization.
                                                              Methodology
                                                              and guidelines
Value
                                                              for better
(quantitative   Non existent                                                  Not achieved
                                                              social program
or Qualitative)
                                                              focalization
                                                              available.
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                      12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved
achievement)
                Public programs portfolio review to identify program delays and development of
Indicator 7 :
                methodology for ex ante screening.
                                                           Public
                                                           programs
                                                           portfolio
Value                                                      review carried
(quantitative   Non existent                               out and        Not achieved
or Qualitative)                                            methodology
                                                           for ex ante
                                                           screening
                                                           available.
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                   12/31/2013     12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Design and dissemination of an evaluation for the SED
                                                           SED             Important changes
                                                           evaluation      will take place
Value
                                                           carried out and fostered by the
(quantitative   Non existent
                                                           disseminated PND, regarding the
or Qualitative)
                                                           through the     SED’s scope (i.e.
                                                           portal.         PGCM)
Date achieved 10/03/2012                                   12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
        Date ISR
No.                                DO                    IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                          (US$ millions)
  1     01/27/2009             Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    0.00
                                                     Moderately
  2     09/18/2009    Moderately Satisfactory                                        0.00
                                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                     Moderately
  3     06/11/2010    Moderately Satisfactory                                        0.00
                                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                     Moderately
  4     12/14/2010    Moderately Satisfactory                                        0.00
                                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                     Moderately
  5     04/26/2011    Moderately Satisfactory                                        0.00
                                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                     Moderately
  6     11/02/2011    Moderately Satisfactory                                        0.00
                                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                     Moderately
  7     05/16/2012    Moderately Satisfactory                                        0.00
                                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                     Moderately
  8     01/07/2013    Moderately Satisfactory                                        0.02
                                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                     Moderately
  9     04/01/2013    Moderately Satisfactory                                        0.02
                                                    Unsatisfactory
 10     12/07/2013             Moderately           Unsatisfactory                   0.21
                          Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP         in
                                       US$ millions
                                                     The restructuring aligned the
 11/15/2012       Y       MS    MU           0.00    PDO to a reduced Project scope
                                                     and partial loan cancellation.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                    Moderately Unsatisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      During the 2004-2007 period, the Mexican economy experienced a balanced and
broad-based economic expansion with an average annual gross domestic product (GDP)
growth rate of 3.8 percent. A vigorous global economic expansion contributed to the
enhanced growth performance, as the value of exports increased at a double-digit annual
average rate. Price stability also contributed to a healthy growth of domestic demand,
with improved purchasing power of wages and salaries, and an expansion of domestic
credit and consumer lending.

2.      In this context, the fiscal reform approved in September 2007 marked a crucial
step in strengthening the country’s fiscal accounts. This fiscal reform enabled the
Government of Mexico (GoM) to raise tax collection rates, strengthen fiscal federalism,
and decrease tax evasion. Building on the improved macroeconomic and fiscal
framework, the GoM focused on enhancing the quality of public expenditures throughout
the budget cycle, from planning to execution and evaluation. As a result, the Government
established a results-based budgeting initiative, the Performance Evaluation System
(Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño, SED), for which it sought Bank support.

3.      Furthermore, the 2008-2013 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico
called for strengthening institutions to improve their functioning and enhancing citizen
perceptions of the public sector through a set of initiatives that included a move towards
results-based budgeting. The higher-level objective of the Project—improving the
quality of public expenditures in Mexico—was therefore fully consistent with the FY08-
13 CPS. The Project was also aligned with two of the primary objectives of the 2007-
2012 National Development Plan (NDP), which aimed to “improve regulation,
management, the processes and results of Federal Public Administration to satisfy citizen
needs in relation to the provision of public goods and services;” and “promote and
guarantee transparency, accountability, access to information, and the protection of
personal information in all spheres of government.”1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4.     The original objective of the Project was to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity
(through its federal departments and agencies) to provide decision makers and the public
with rigorous, timely, user-friendly information on the efficiency and effectiveness of
government organizations and their program expenditures.2



1
    Mexico Country Partnership Strategy FY 2008-2013, March 4, 2008, Report No. 42846-MX.

2
 There is a slight difference between the Original PDO in the PAD and the Loan Agreement (LA). The one used in the
ICR is that of the LA.

                                                        1
5.      The original PDO indicators were: (i) Performance information presented in
budget requests from line ministries to SHCP and in budget submitted to Congress; (ii)
Satisfaction of Congress and civil society organizations with the performance information
made available via government websites (as measured through user surveys); (iii) Percent
of programs with improved strategic design and reporting 3 ; (iv) Progression of
organizations through the steps (levels) established for each Management Improvement
Program (Programa de Mejora de la Gestión, PMG), marking increased levels of
administrative capacity and efficiency.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

6.       The Project had to be restructured (level 1) in November 2012 as a result of
changes in national priorities and most importantly, due to the fact that some activities
had been financed and implemented using local funds, in light of the loan’s start up
delays and lengthy process towards effectiveness. Therefore, the Government and the
Bank agreed on reducing the Project scope, partially cancelling the loan and redesigning
activities to better align them with Government priorities.

7.      In order to align them with a reduced Project scope and partial loan cancellation,
the PDO and its key indicators and the results framework were revised. The revised PDO
is to strengthen SHCP’s capacity to: (i) allow the use of standardized performance
information of priority public programs during budget preparation; (ii) generate
harmonized sub-national fiscal information; and (iii) disseminate budget performance
information to the Borrower’s citizens on a regular basis. The table below illustrates the
change in key indicators.

                                       Table 1. Changes in PDO indicators
              Original PDO-Level Indicator                Revised PDO-Level Indicator (restructuring
                       (PAD 2008)                                              2012)
    1.   Performance information presented in budget (Revised) Performance information using a
         requests from line ministries to SHCP and in performance framework is generated and used
         budget submitted to Congress.                   during budget request discussions between line
                                                         secretariats and SHCP.
    2.   Satisfaction of Congress and civil society (Revised) An active network and a portal to
         organizations    with     the    performance inform society at large on a regular basis about
         information made available via government budget performance, increasing transparency
         websites (as measured through user surveys). and accountability to citizens.
    3.   Percent of programs with improved strategic (Revised) Percent of public programs for which
         design and reporting.                           there is performance information using a
                                                         standardized performance framework.




3
 There is evidence from previous analytic work supported by the Bank (Technical assistance to the SHCP on October
2007, corroborated by subsequent CONEVAL analysis) that the quality of strategic design of public programs is weak
along several different dimensions (objectives, indicators, link to strategies). Using equivalent dimensions, the UED
unit was supposed to be able to measure overall quality over time, using that previous work as a baseline.

                                                         2
    4.   Progression of organizations through the         (Dropped original and replaced with new)
         steps (levels) established for each PMG          Percent of municipalities that have a simplified
         system, marking increased levels of              financial management system installed and
         administrative capacity and efficiency.          working.
Source: Proposed Project Restructuring of Results-based Management and Budgeting Loan 68464-MX, 2012.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

8.     The primary target groups of the Project were the users of performance
information, including line ministries, Congress and the general public. These main
beneficiaries did not change when the Project was restructured.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)4

Component 1.Management Improvement Program.

9.      Provision of technical assistance and training for the design and implementation
of selected management improvement and austerity systems, including, inter alia:
(a) assistance in the design of the institutional module of the Borrower’s Programa
Especial de la Mejora de la Gestión en la Administración Pública Federal 2008-2012;
(b) assistance for technical groups established and to be established with respect to each
of said management improvement and austerity systems; and
(c) capacity building for actors responsible for the implementation of said management
improvement and austerity systems.

Component 2. Results-Based Management and Budgeting Integrated Information Systems

10.      Provision of technical assistance and training to support the development of an
integrated information system, including, inter alia, the development of the necessary
institutional arrangements, procedures, and an associated electronic database to:
(a) receive budget and other expenditure information from different sources;
(b) organize and analyze said information; and
(c) produce abridged, user-friendly reports with key messages to inform various
stakeholders and improve transparency of budget execution.

Component 3.Financial Management Strengthening for Results-Based Budgeting

11.     Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the quality and
integrity of financial data, including, inter alia:
(a) modernization of the Borrower’s public accounts (Cuenta Pública) and the underlying
government accounting systems to strengthen the usefulness, integrity and transparency



4
 The components are presented as per the Loan Agreement. For a more detailed description of the original
components see the Project Appraisal Document Report No: 46271-MX.


                                                         3
of public accounting records and related accounting management systems for
management decision making and public accountability; and
(b) strengthening of the quality and timeliness of the Borrower’s budget execution
reporting.

Component 4. Results-Based Management and Evaluation System Consolidation

12.      Provision of technical assistance and training to:
(a) address government’s capacity limitations to carry out, contract and use evaluations of
government programs; and
(b) consolidate a system to evaluate the effectiveness of federal policies and programs
through, inter alia:
    (i) (A) creation and consolidation of a Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño in the
         Borrower’s government; and
         (B) strengthening of the alignment of the Borrower’s National System for
         Democratic Planning components, including, Vision 2030, National Development
         Plan, sector strategies and budgetary programs and the strengthening of a selected
         set of strategic indicators based on sharper program design, and ownership
         building of these indicators among the Borrower’s line secretariats;
    (ii) strengthening the generation of performance data for the analysis of the
         Programas Federales; and
    (iii) implementation of results-based management approaches at the state level.

Component 5. Monitoring and Evaluation

13.      Provision of technical assistance and training to SFP and SHCP to develop the
necessary organizational and evaluation capacity to monitor the progress and to evaluate
the implementation of the Borrower’s Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño and related
institutional reforms.

1.6 Revised Components

14.    The November 2012 restructuring (level 1) introduced the following changes to
the components:

(i)     Components 1 (Management Improvement Program) and 2 (Results-Based
        Management and Budgeting Integrated Information Systems) were cancelled as a
        result of changes in Government priorities and use of own resources;
(ii)    Component 3 (Financial Management Strengthening for Results-Based
        Budgeting) continued as originally designed with some changes in activities that
        focused on modernizing Government accounting and public accounts, as well as
        harmonizing and integrating budget execution reporting;
(iii)   Component 4 (Results-Based Management and Evaluation System Consolidation)
        was revised to update Project activities with respect to consolidating the




                                            4
               Government evaluation system and to include a fourth sub-component according
               to the following description5:

               “the provision of support to the Borrower’s fiscal transparency initiatives
               including: (a) the participatory design and implementation of an integrated fiscal
               transparency web portal, and (b) the design of guidelines and regulations to foster
               fiscal transparency in the Borrower’s federal, state and municipal levels of
               government”;

(iv)           Component 5 (Monitoring and Evaluation) would continue with some changes in
               activities including cancellation of activities to be originally implemented by SFP.
               The revised description6 is as follows:

               “Provision of technical assistance and training to SHCP to develop the necessary
               organizational and evaluation capacity to monitor the progress and to evaluate the
               implementation of the Borrower's Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño and
               related institutional reforms.”

1.7 Other significant changes

15.            The November 2012 restructuring (level 1) introduced these additional changes:

       (i)        the restructured Project was to be implemented solely by the SHCP through its
                  Subscretaría de Egresos (SE) eliminating the participation of the Public
                  Administration Ministry or Secretaría de la Función Pública, SFP;
       (ii)       the Project financing reflected the cancellation of US$12.756 million of the
                  loan amount (from US$17.2 million to US$4.4 million) and revisions to the
                  costs by component, financing plan and expenditure categories;
       (iii)      the procurement arrangements were changed to apply the Consultant and
                  Procurement Guidelines of May 2004 as revised October 1, 2006 and May 1,
                  2010 to the restructured Project; this was to enable application of the Bank
                  Guidelines that are harmonized with the then currently authorized policies and
                  procedures for externally funded projects in the country; and
       (iv)       the procurement plan and implementation schedule was revised as a result of
                  the reduction in Project scope and partial loan cancellation.

16.    With respect to Project financing changes, the total Project cost was reduced from
US$31.9 million to US$6.7 million (excluding front-end fee)7. In terms of the Project’s
financing plan, the reduction in total Project cost reduced both the counterpart fund
contribution as well as the required IBRD loan amount (from US$17.2 million to US$4.4
million including the front-end fee). See Table 2 for details.



5
  Amendment to the Loan Agreement dated November 29, 2012.
6
  Ibid.
7
  See Annex 1 for more details.

                                                     5
    Table 2: Summary of Project Total Costs and Estimated Financing Plan (US$ million)
                                     As approved (PAD)                  After restructuring
  Components/Activities       Local         IBRD         Total      Local      IBRD      Total
 1. Management                       0         7.600        7.600         0         0          0
 improvement program
 (PMG)
 2. Development of an            2.100         1.900        4.000         0         0          0
 Integrated Information
 System for Results-Based
 Budgeting and
 Management (SISED)
 3. Strengthening Financial      2.075         1.925        4.000     1.850     2.925     4.775
 Information for the
 implementation of Results
 Based Budgeting
 4. Consolidation of the         6.050         4.000       10.050     0.440     1.131     1.571
 Performance Evaluation
 System and Results Based
 Budgeting
 5. Institutional                4.500         1.775        6.275         0    0.3875     .3875
 Strengthening and
 Program Monitoring and
 Evaluation
           TOTAL                14.725        17.200       31.925      2.29    4.4435    6.7335
       Source: Proposed Project Restructuring of Results-based Management and Budgeting Loan 68464-MX, 2012.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.     The quality at entry is viewed to have been moderately unsatisfactory. During
preparation, the Project benefitted from synergies that emerged from activities organized
by the Bank, such as the Performance Budgeting workshop that took place in Mexico in
June 2008, which presented international experiences on the topic and became an
important input for the initial design of the reforms. In addition, the two original
counterparts, SFP and SHCP, also benefited from the economies of scale derived from
implementing the results-oriented agenda towards a comprehensive reform–including
both management and budget. However, the design of the Project was complex; the
potential lack of coordination between the two main counterparts (SFP and SHCP),
identified as substantial risk at appraisal, materialized during the Project’s initial stages
and implementation. Moreover, it should be noted that moving from monitoring budget
execution to results monitoring, and from compliance to results in public sector
management via a more comprehensive program, such as the PMG, implied a big reform.
Most countries in Latin America and in Asia—as highlighted by one of the peer
reviewers—have struggled with this type of changes. As such, even though counterparts
coordinated their efforts and defined their roles for the results-based management and
budgeting reform during the Project’s preparation, the significant delay in loan
effectiveness and subsequent delay in implementation suggests that the coordination
mechanisms needed for the Project were underestimated.

                                                   6
18.    The PAD indicated that the Project met the criteria for readiness for
implementation. 8 However, there were delays between the signing of the Loan
Agreement and the declaration of effectiveness. The Project was approved by the Board
on December 11, 2008. The Project’s legal agreement was signed on April 21, 2009, and
became effective on March 19, 2010 due to an unanticipated delay in internal GoM
administrative processes – specifically, the execution of the administrative agreements
(Contrato de Mandato)9 between the Borrower’s Representative (Public Credit Unit in
SHCP), the Financial Agent (Nacional Financiera, NAFIN), and the implementing
agencies - SFP and SHCP.

19.      Overall, the long time elapsed since the loan’s approval and effectiveness (16
months), along with a challenging procurement environment involving multiple parties
(i.e., in Mexico it typically involves participation of three to four parties - the
implementing entity/ies, the financial agent and the Bank) and weak procurement
capacities in the implementing agencies, made it impossible for the Government to start
utilizing the loan proceeds until one and a half years after Board approval.

2.2 Implementation

20.     The implementation of the Project is viewed to have been moderately
unsatisfactory primarily due to the lack of physical progress under the Project.

21.     Start-up delays, a complex project design that included a governance framework
involving two implementing agencies, limited implementation capacity, as well as
changes in Government counterparts10, severely hampered Project execution. Moreover,
within SHCP the reform and Project activities were not fully internalized or appropriated
in particular by the operational teams. SHCP areas (Budget Direction, Evaluation
Direction, and International Affairs) were not fully aligned conceptually regarding
Performance Based Budgeting and its priorities and targets. These resulted in the
Government requesting a partial cancellation of the Project (US$12.7 million equivalent
to 74% of Loan amount) as early as August 2011. As of Project restructuring in
November 2012, only the front-end fee for the IBRD loan of US$43,108 had been
disbursed under the loan. Moreover, lengthy procurement processes, in some cases
caused by changes in Project Government leaders and operational teams, not only
affected Project implementation but also posed a risk to its continuity, triggering internal



8
  Readiness for implementation means that the Project ideally should become effective within four months from Board
approval and is able to evidence physical implementation including initial disbursement for project activities (not just
front-end fee) within the first six months following effectiveness.

9
 There were two specific effectiveness conditions for this operation:(a) the duly executed Contrato de Mandato by the
respective parties; and (b) related legal opinions from the respective parties of the Contrato de Mandato.

10
     In the SFP, there were 5 subsecretarios between 2008 and 2012.


                                                           7
Bank discussions on a possible loan closing during the process of restructuring in
2011/2012.

22.     Despite this lack of progress, the Government remained committed to the overall
objective of the Project that supports a critical public sector reform, namely the
introduction of results-based management and budgeting in the context of a continued
effort to modernize and harmonize public financial management (PFM) rules and
procedures in all levels of government in Mexico. This is evidenced by some activities
being advanced and financed with local resources and which was the basis for the
continued positive assessment of the achievement of the PDO 11.

23.    Using its own resources, significant progress was made by the Government in
pursuing the indicated PFM reform agenda particularly in the areas of results-based
budgeting, performance evaluation, accounting harmonization, fiscal transparency and
public procurement management. The most important achievements in these areas are
presented below:

24.      Results-Based budgeting and performance evaluation : The PBR-SED12 reform
led by the SE has successfully advanced the design and introduction of specific
guidelines and instruments to gradually adopt a results and performance orientation in the
Federal Government’s budgeting process. By developing a conceptual model, the new
system articulated two instruments aiming at incorporating the results and performance
dimensions into the resource allocation procedures, i.e., the adoption of performance
indicators for public sector programs and the implementation of systematic evaluation
activities over public sector policies and programs.

25.     Accounting harmonization: As part of the overall strategy to modernize public
sector financial management practices in the country, the Government started an
ambitious program towards the harmonization of public accounts and accounting
practices across Federal and sub-national governments. Introducing results-informed
management capabilities require adequate accounting, reporting and consolidation of
information mechanisms as a sine qua non condition for success. Thus, based on
timelines clearly established in legislation passed at the request of the Administration,
efforts were deployed to modernize and harmonize accounting systems.

26.     Fiscal transparency: The SE also achieved significant progress in the fiscal
transparency agenda. After a broad consultation and participatory process involving
specialized Non Government Organizations (NGOs) and experts, and in collaboration
with the Access to Information regulatory entity – IFAI, the SE launched a fiscal
transparency Portal13that provides access to detailed information on the allocation and use
of federal government’s resources. The portal is now fully operational and has also
included a citizens’ friendly application–Presupuesto Ciudadano–that not only facilitates


11
   ISR DO rating was Moderately Satisfactory from late 2009 – early 2013.
12
   PBR-SED stands for Presupuesto Basado en Resultados y Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño .
13
   For more details visit http://www.transparenciapresupuestaria.gob.mx

                                                       8
access to budget information, but also describes the budgetary process in a very
accessible way for citizens.

27.    The SFP had also been advancing the public sector management modernization
agenda complementing efforts in areas related to the improvement of public sector
management practices, streamlining internal regulatory frameworks, and modernizing the
Federal Government’s public procurement system and procedures.

28.     Progress achieved by both the SE and SFP using own resources was in line with
the PDO and had received Bank’s feedback and guidance. In the case of the PBR-SED
effort, the Bank sustained technical dialogue during Project implementation support
missions for those activities that should be carried out through the Bank loan. On the
other hand, the PFM harmonization work was supported through both Bank
implementation support activities and a parallel advisory services activity.

29.      With these advances using local funds, a Government request for a partial
cancellation was received on August 8, 2011. This was followed by a request in late
2011 to reduce the Project scope to reflect the advances and redesign of activities to
better align them with current priorities. In this regard, the processing of the cancellation
by the Bank was delayed pending validation of the final set of activities that would need
to be dropped and those that needed to be incorporated under the restructured Project to
ensure viability after restructuring. Moreover, the November 2012 restructuring was
finalized after a careful re-assessment by Government counterparts and the Bank that
took into account the potential impact of the political transition following the Presidential
elections in July 2012. Specifically, the SFP indicated its preference to cancel its
activities in the Project.

30.     Moreover, soon after the Project restructuring, the new Administration took place
in 2013. Among the first impact on the Project was the change in the executing unit from
the Budget Office of the SE to the Performance Evaluation Unit (Unidad de Evaluación
del Desempeño, UED)14. This facilitated a better alignment of presidential priorities with
sectorial plans and programs’ objectives/ targets. However, the political transition also
resulted into a set-back in Project execution since the activities needed to be revalidated
with the new counterparts. Actual Project activities implemented were minimal with
total disbursements of less than US$400K. Furthermore, priority shifts in some critical
results areas of the Project led to some results indicators not being achieved at all. This
was particularly true for the roll-out of simplified financial management systems to small
municipalities that could not be achieved because of a priority shift towards the
development of the Government Accounting System first.




14
   This evaluation unit reported to the Budget Office Director (UPCP). In October 2012, the internal Regulations of the
SHCP were amended through a Decree; these reforms included the creation of the Performance Evaluation Unit with
attributions to coordinate performance evaluations established in article 111 of the Budget and Fiscal Responsibility
Federal Law (LFPRH).

                                                          9
31.    Another factor affecting implementation was the existence of a similar operation
supported by IADB. The IADB supported Performance Based Budgeting through a loan,
but there was a lack of effective coordination between the two institutions. In this
context, both Banks were almost competing and not aligned in technical aspects.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32.    M&E design. The results framework presented in the PAD provided for
performance indicators for the PDO and intermediate results for each component.
However, these were largely qualitative in nature and with only the desired target value at
end of Project identified. No target values were identified for the time period between
beginning and ending which made monitoring a challenge and perhaps more susceptible
to optimistic assessments as evidenced by the Moderately Satisfactory ratings for PDO
achievement throughout the life of the Project except for the last ISR. Progress towards
achieving the PDO could have been more meaningfully and objectively assessed if target
values were identified for the implementation period and not just at exit. Moreover, with
mid-course target values, mid-course corrections could have been introduced earlier.

33.     M&E implementation. During the second and third years of implementation, the
Bank scheduled periodic high level meetings with and between Deputy Ministers to
discuss the progress of the Project, but these meetings did not occur as planned and when
they did, they could not provide guidance to the Project at the political or technical level
needed. The PDO and intermediate indicators were adjusted during Project restructuring
(level one) in 2012 to establish a better link with Project activities. While the target
values were also identified only for Project exit, the indicators have improved to allow
for a more objective if not quantitative assessment during implementation post-
restructuring. The Bank regularly monitored progress under the Project through periodic
implementation support missions and were also included in the implementing agencies
progress reports.

34.     M&E utilization. The PDO and intermediate results indicators, particularly with
respect to the target measures or percentages, were closely monitored by the Bank team
and reported in ISRs. The counterparts provided updates to the Bank on the results
indicators usually at the conclusion of every implementation support missions. Post-
restructuring, the Government also used the transparency portal to monitor most of the
results indicators. However, more in situ monitoring effort is done in each ministry
through their planning units instead of the UED at SHCP.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

35.    No safeguard policies were triggered by the Project at design, an appropriate
decision, as no such issues arose during implementation.

36.     The key issues and risks concerning procurement for Project implementation were
identified since Project appraisal; these included the lack of experience of the two
implementing agencies in applying Bank procurement guidelines. The corrective

                                            10
measures were agreed with the executing agencies and were mainly related to keeping
enough trained personnel on Bank guidelines in the implementing agencies’ procurement
units. However, limited procurement capacity continued to be an issue during
implementation before and after restructuring which posed a substantial risk to the
Project’s success.

37.    Risk for Project financial management was assessed as low and was considered to
be satisfactory throughout Project implementation. Financial monitoring reports were
submitted on time and were acceptable to the Bank. All minor inconsistencies found
during supervision were properly addressed by the client and did not impact the controls
of the Project. Annual audit reports for the Project were submitted accordingly and
reviewed by the Bank, with auditors issuing their unqualified opinions.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

38.     Continuing commitment to the development objective beyond the scope of the
loan has been demonstrated through the decisions of actors including the UED to engage
in related activities with their own funding. There are also positive signals that future
Bank engagement with SHCP would include a focus on strengthening the UED as well as
the M&E capacities of line ministries and sub-national governments. To this end, the
lessons from this Project are expected to inform future engagements and could therefore
help to consolidate and sustain the Close and Modern Government Program (Programa
de Gobierno Cercano y Moderno, PGCM),15 as well as the reform process of SHCP in
the area of performance information, integrated financial management, use of this
information for improving commitments that result from evaluations and for management
and budget decision making.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

39.      To achieve faster growth, reduce extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity,
Mexico needed to improve public service delivery. Mexico’s public service delivery is
still hindered by expenditure inefficiencies at all levels of government: federal, state, and
municipal. In this context, sound and informed budget decision making were critical to
ensure that services were delivered efficiently, as well as in a transparent and accountable
manner.

40.     The GoM recognized this challenge in the 2013-18 NDP, which lays out a cross-
cutting program for a “Close and Modern Government”. The PGCM aims at establishing
a results-based, efficient government, as well as developing monitoring and evaluation



15
     See section 3.1 for more details on this cross cutting program included in the National Development Plan 2013-2018.


                                                           11
mechanisms for improving performance and service delivery. Additionally, the program
seeks to simplify procedures and regulations, allow for greater transparency and
accountability, ensure an optimal use of public resources, and seize the potential of
information and communication technologies. By focusing on enhancing the information
on performance available for government entities and citizens, the Project’s original
design and implementation are fully aligned with the GoM’s current strategy and
continue to be highly relevant for Mexico.

41.      As mentioned in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Project was aligned
with the CPS FY08-13 16 that called for strengthening institutions to improve their
functioning and to enhance citizen perception of the public sector through a set of
initiatives including results based-budgeting. The Project was also consistent with the
World Bank thematic engagement set forth in the new CPS FY14-19, specifically with
the third theme, “Strengthening Public Finances and Government Efficiency”. 17 The
Bank strategy underscores the need for Mexico to improve public sector performance,
including expenditure quality and equity, and aims at supporting better service delivery.
Through this Project, the Bank has contributed to extending the monitoring and
evaluation techniques of key public policies, strengthening the supervision of indicator
achievements, and generalizing the follow up of intermediate results, establishing the
foundations for a more efficient and transparent public administration.

42.     As mentioned earlier, design of the Project was complex but it was key to enable
the changes that needed to happen in order to pursue a results-oriented reform in budget
and public sector management and effectiveness. With respect to implementation, albeit
unsatisfactory in the end, it was relevant as it allowed for a continuing engagement and
dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the critical public sector reform areas
beyond the Project.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

43.        The overall rating for PDO achievement is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

44.     Prior to the November 2012 restructuring, the achievement of outcomes is
assessed in this ICR to be moderately unsatisfactory. While credit is due to the SHCP
and SFP for their achievements using own resources, these did not enable the Project to
sufficiently progress towards achieving its desired outcomes. Nevertheless, as discussed
in Section 2, their achievements in advancing results based budgeting and performance
evaluation, accounting harmonization and fiscal transparency, albeit without any loan
disbursement except for the front-end-fee, were aligned with the PDO.

45.    Post-restructuring, the achievement of outcomes with disbursement of
approximately US$400K are assessed to be likewise moderately unsatisfactory for failure


16
     Report No. 42846-MX

17
     Report No. 83496-MX

                                             12
to achieve several results indicators including the PDO indicator and related intermediate
outcome indicators with respect to the roll-out of a simplified financial management
system to small municipalities and the evaluation of public programs. Nevertheless, the
following achievements after the restructuring are worth noting:
    (i)    Performance information (PI) is now presented in a timely manner to
           Congress in a format that allows interpretation and meets their needs. The
           content includes outcome and output measures.
    (ii)   The majority of the public programs (84.5%) have a robust design across key
           dimensions (objectives, indicators, baselines, links to strategies) enabling
           better reporting and evaluation.
    (iii)  The Portal containing the PI on budget performance is available to citizens. In
           2013, the UED developed more citizen friendly applications such as Cuenta
           Pública Ciudadana 2012 and 2013, as well as their English versions. These
           initiatives were mostly financed by component 4 of the loan. An improved
           version of the budget transparency portal is to be launched in June 2014,
           including new platform, features, etc. See figure below and Annex 2 for more
           details on outputs that contributed to achieve PDOs.




 Outputs.
 1. Budget Transparency Portal
 2. Established methodology
 and manuals that set the                                                      Project Development
 minimum technical                              Component 4.                   Objective 2. An active
 requirements and guidelines                    Consolidation of the           network and a portal to inform
 for budget transparency and                    performance evaluation         society at large on a regular
 provide orientation for                        system’s (Sistema de           basis about budget
 performance indicators                         Evaluación del Desempeño       performance, increasing
                                                – SED) institutional           transparency and accountability
 3. Developed Training                          architecture and               to citizens
 Programs based on the                          strengthening the system
 challenges identified and on                   for evaluating policy and
 demands (i.e. logical                          program effectiveness
 framework matrix)                              (Presupuesto Basado en
                                                Resultados – PBR)



46.     Overall, the Project supported the introduction of better management practices,
processes and tools in the Mexican public administration, including better and timely
performance information, enhanced reporting and evaluation of public programs, and
transparent and available budget information. The adoption of the Budget Transparency
Portal, which was largely funded by loan funds, resulted into tangible outcomes in terms
of generating information and enabled the country to maintain its Open Budget Index
standing. 18 At the same time, the Project financed the training of officials through a



18
   In 2012, Mexico has been one of the countries that provide “significant budget information” per the Open Budget
Index.

                                                         13
series of activities including online courses, workshops and the development of a series
of manuals and methodologies to collect, monitor and evaluate budget information. This
now appear to have good results as evidenced by the work being continued and
specifically evidenced with SHCP’s presentation of the “Guidelines to register, revise,
update, schedule and monitor the Budget Programs Results Indicators Matrix (MIR)” in
the first semester of 2014.

3.3 Efficiency

47.     Project efficiency is low. The reduction in scope and the limited results achieved
despite the restructuring and extension suggest that overall efficiency is much lower than
expectations at design and at restructuring. The long time elapsed between preparation
and the Project closing with minimal physical accomplishments and limited results vis-à-
vis the overall desired outcomes suggest there were opportunities missed which were
partly alluded to in the Borrower’s comments on the relevance of Project activities
(particularly those of SFP) having been reduced given the delays. In monetary terms,
from the beginning, a cost-benefit analysis was not considered to assess the impact of
these institutional reforms, as problems in the quantification of intangibles and issues of
attribution make it difficult to express their impacts. Moreover, given loan amount
disbursed (US$373,684) vis-à-vis the time-overrun in implementation and the resources
mobilized in the Bank for preparation and provision of implementation support
(US$967,977) which are more than double the loan disbursement, it could be considered
that the Project failed to be efficient. Nevertheless, the operation managed to achieve
significant results in terms of increased transparency, good governance and
accountability, as measured by greater availability and access to budget data and
performance information (see Annex for more details). Further potential efficiency gains
and cost savings are expected from these types of reforms when fully implemented.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

48.     As discussed above, while the relevance of the objective remains high with the
public financial management and results-based agenda at the federal and subnational
levels remaining a priority, the achievement of the PDO could only be rated moderately
unsatisfactory given the inefficient Project implementation and the non-achievement of
significant outcomes.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

49.    No direct poverty, gender or measurable impact on the population is attributable
to the Project. However, the Project’s impact on public sector management areas has
potential indirect impact on reducing poverty through the effect of better resource

                                            14
allocation and improved service delivery conditions, as well as by channeling generated
savings more efficiently to national priorities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

50.     The M&E capacity of the UED was significantly strengthened in the latter part of
the Project. From Project start to November 2012, the Project was executed by the
Budget Office of the SE. Beginning December 2012 (when the current administration
took office) the UED19 took over Project execution. This facilitated a better alignment of
presidential priorities with sectorial plans and programs’ objectives and targets. Technical
assistance during implementation support missions by the Bank contributed to this, as
well as feedback to the reform decisions provided by TTLs and experts members of the
World Bank team.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

51.      No significant unintended outcomes or impacts were identified.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

52.    No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops were conducted specifically for
reviewing Project performance.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

53.     The general direction of the reforms supported by the Project is aligned with those
of the Government’s PGCM. As such, risks to the outcomes that have been achieved to
date are considered to be moderate. While in the medium to long term, further advances
in effectiveness building off Project activities will likely require additional investments in
technology and process redesign, all of these are considered in the PGCM.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


19
   This evaluation unit reported to the Budget Office Director (or UPCP). In October 2012 through a Decree the
internal Regulations of the SHCP were amended; these reforms included the creation of the Performance Evaluation
Unit (UED) with attributions to coordinate performance evaluations established in article 111 of the Budget and Fiscal
Responsibility Federal Law (LFPRH).


                                                         15
54.     The Project was intended to achieve challenging reforms in public management
and results-based budgeting, building from efforts supported by the Bank during the
beginning of the 2006-2012 administration and Project preparation. The Project was
prepared taking into account lessons learned from international experiences and taking
advantage of the synergies between SFP and SHCP who were then working together
towards a results oriented agenda. The Project was consistent with the federal
government’s objectives and the Bank strategy in Mexico.                However, several
shortcomings in Project design posed significant challenges to implementation. In
particular, the failure to identify the challenges involved in coordinating amongst and
with several federal government entities, and the overestimation of the counterpart’s
capacity to carry out complex procurement processes (both in SFP and SHCP) caused
significant risks to the successful completion of the Project. As noted by the Borrower in
their comments, Project implementation could have benefited from having a focal point
for coordination as well from providing a venue to collaborate among all the stakeholders
during Project preparation. The delay in declaring the loan effective (16 months from
Board approval) suggests a significant under-estimation of the Project’s readiness to be
implemented.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

55.     The initial implementation support phase of the Project could be characterized as
overly optimistic and highly focused on technical aspects, with inadequate attention paid
to operational constraints. On the positive side, in a context where the Government was
moving fast with their reform agenda and the demands were changing, the Bank was able
to sustain technical dialogue specifically on the PBR-SED and PFM harmonization
efforts which were financed by local funds. On the negative side, the Bank failed to take
advantage of the synergies in place between SFP and SHCP in the early stages of
implementation. On top of that, the SFP faced high-level public officials’ turnover and
the World Bank team failed to recognize these implementation risk flags or adjust to
these changes in the context accurately. The Bank’s implementation support team also
suffered from lack of leadership at the beginning of implementation when the TTLs were
changed20. Hence, realistic assessments of Project implementation constraints early on
could have facilitated a Project turnaround by addressing the changing dynamics in the
reform. There were also indications that communications between the Bank team,
fiduciary teams, financial agent and implementing agencies could have been better to
improve Project implementation support and administrative processes.

56.      By 2011, it became clear that the Project scope had to be reduced and Project
activities redesigned to better align them with the incoming Government’s priorities as



20
     The Project had a total of three TTLs throughout the five years of implementation,


                                                      16
was detailed in the Government requests. However, the processing of the partial
cancellation by the Bank was postponed to allow for a thorough assessment of viability
and commitment from the newly elected administration (at the end of 2012). During this
time, the Bank flagged potential issues and took action to solve them effectively
throughout the last year of implementation. The new government had just taken office
and continued to align its priorities; and as noted above, even though the Bank team
engaged in intensive implementation support, procurement processes lingered for
extensive periods given procurement capacity constraints within the implementing
agency and as such only a few contracts were executed with less than 10% of the total
restructured loan funds disbursed. Nevertheless, post-restructuring, a closer collaboration
between the Bank team and the counterparts were established that not only help move the
Project forward as well as contributed to the institutional strengthening of the UED.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

57.     Based on the Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry, and the quality of
implementation support, the overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately
Unsatisfactory. A number of challenges that led to delays in Project start-up and
execution were not fully identified at design, and communication between the Bank and
the client could have been better during the initial part of implementation. However, this
ICR recognizes the Bank implementation support team’s significant efforts during the
latter part of implementation to better address the procurement issues and to try to
achieve the new Government’s goals.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

58.      Despite the fact that Project implementation suffered delays, the areas supported
under this Project were part of the Government of Mexico’s priority agenda with respect
to improving results based management and budgeting as evidenced by the reform
advances that took place using their own resources. However, the political commitment
to the Project was weakened by the weak (if not lack of) coordination between SFP and
SHCP and compounded by the turnover of government officials (5 subsecretarios held
office in the SFP as the main counterparts for Components 1 and 2). Moreover, the
Project was not fully internalized or appropriated in particular by the SHCP’s operational
teams. SHCP areas (Budget Direction, Evaluation Direction, and International Affairs)
were not fully aligned conceptually regarding Performance Based Budgeting and its
priorities and targets. SFP and SHCP’s high-level commitment could have translated into
proactive measures by ensuring that the Project operational units were progressing with
Project implementation satisfactorily.



                                            17
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

59.     The Project Implementation Units both at the SFP and SHCP were committed to
the Project but had a low capacity in fiduciary aspects, especially procurement as
identified in the risks at appraisal. During the last year of implementation, SHCP’s
implementing unit (within the UED) was very organized and engaged but lacked
familiarity with the Bank’s procurement guidelines that did not allow them to disburse
most of the resources. Nevertheless, despite their capacity constraint, they were able to
focus on limited activities that had significant contribution to the desired Project
outcomes. With their limited implementation capacity, they were able to advance on the
Budget Transparency Portal that enabled the Project to deliver on its objective of
disseminating budget performance information to the Borrower’s citizens on a regular
basis.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

60.   Considering the above arguments, the overall Borrower performance is deemed
moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

61.     The instrument was not the best alternative for what was needed for these reforms.
The mitigation measures in place did not lower the risks identified at appraisal. This
Project benefitted the most from the technical assistance and feedback received both
during preparation and the last years of implementation. In retrospect, it would have
been better to have supported the Government’s agenda with a Non-Lending Technical
Assistance (NLTA) program or a Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS) to support
more effectively the type of reforms the Government was pursuing.             The chosen
instrument allowed the Bank to promote the technical dialogue with the authorities and
amongst stakeholders, and also ensured agreements and commitments at the highest
levels. However, these were not fully internalized or appropriated in particular by the
SHCP’s operational teams as discussed above.

62.     Assessment of Risks - Coordination mechanisms were not enough. Although there
were mitigation measures in place for this risk, the fact that there were two implementing
agencies and a financial agent was more complex than initially assessed. Moreover,
within each of the implementing agencies, coordination was not enforced thus affecting
project implementation and disbursement performance. The designation of a focal point
for coordination could have helped as noted by the Borrower.

63.   Demand not well read in the case of SHCP. While Components 1 and 2 were very
much in line with the Government’s (SFP) agenda, both conceptual and technical; the

                                           18
Components related to results-based budgeting (SE of SHCP) which included the Budget
Office (UPCP) in the first stages and the UED in the last years were not aligned. This is
largely reflected in the lack of disbursements throughout the Project.

64.    Additional implementation support should be considered for projects that involve
more than one implementing unit that are not familiar with large and complex
procurement processes, such as some investments within this Project. For this Project, the
need for additional support should have been anticipated at the beginning of Project
implementation. While capacities at the Ministries were strengthened, this was not
enough. Moreover, improved harmonization of procurement procedures between the
Bank and GoM is a necessity as noted by the Borrower’s comments.

65.     Ensure alignment between Government processing and Bank required action. As
reflected in the Borrower’s comments below, timely action from the Bank with respect to
issuing Bank feedback especially “no objection” is also a critical element for timely
implementation.

66.    Meaningful and objective results indicators are critical for monitoring complex
reform initiatives.   While reform initiatives do not always allow for quantifiable
measures of success, this Project could have benefited from a results framework that
provided for mid-course target values that could have informed counterparts and the
Bank that mid-course corrections were warranted earlier.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

67.    The Borrower provided very informative and pertinent comments and these have
been taken into consideration in the assessment of overall performance of the Project, the
Borrower and the Bank as well as in the lessons learned section. These comments are as
follows:

       a) The initial objective of the GoM’s “Results based Management and
          Budgeting” Project aimed at having the departments and federal organizations
          of the country provide decision makers and citizens in general with rigorous,
          timely and easy to access information regarding the efficiency and
          effectiveness of public expenditure programs.

       b) The GoM sought Bank support for the financing of the Project through an
          IBRD loan, with the objective of reaching the goals proposed under the five
          components that integrated the Project. Given the legal attributions conferred
          by the Federal Public Administration Organic Law, the Government mandated
          the two main ministries involved in the PBR-SED initiative (SHCP and SFP)
          with the implementation of the Project.




                                           19
c) Having two implementing agencies was an obstacle to the successful
   execution of the Project, basically due to the complexity of coordinating the
   work of the two ministries and the lack of clarity in the Project objectives, as
   well as its scope. This was accentuated by the absence of a coordination focal
   point and the limited cooperation amongst both ministries, the Financial
   Agent and the Bank. Also, the pace of the execution of the Project did not
   satisfy Government expectations in terms of results.

d) In addition, the delay between the signing of the Legal Agreement (April 21,
   2009) and effectiveness (March 19, 2010) had also a negative influence in the
   implementation of the Project. During the first stages of Project execution, it
   was not possible to hire any consultancy and advisory services due to delays
   in the execution of Bank administrative processes—such as “no objections”—
   through the Financial Agent. As a result, the first consultancy services were
   only provided in 2011.

e) Under these circumstances, one of the executing agencies, SFP, decided not to
   continue with the implementation of the Project, cancelling the total amount
   of resources allocated to its components. As the entity responsible for the
   PMG, SFP was counting on the Project to help advance that agenda, including
   the design of documents, tools and methodologies. The initial delays reduced
   the relevance of the components included in the Project from the perspective
   of SFP.

f) Consequently, the Project was restructured in order to have only one
   executing agency, the SHCP. The SHCP used the loan resources to: hire, inter
   alia, the consultancy services to analyze and evaluate the strategic indicators
   of the budget programs; conduct training sessions with regards to PBR-SED;
   and implement the mechanisms to report the federal resources transferred to
   state entities and municipalities. These activities had a positive impact in the
   PBR-SED implementation.

g) Under the restructured Project, the Financial Agent acted in a timely manner,
   which was key for the review of the documents needed to register processes
   and for obtaining “no objections” from the Bank with respect to the hiring of
   consultancy services, as well as disbursements. This also helped produce
   Project-required financial and progress reports on time.

h) In the view of SHCP, Bank procurement and hiring processes, especially
   those requiring “no objections”, could be improved. The long time elapsed
   between Bank approval/rejection caused delays in the processing of contracts,
   which greatly affected the proper implementation of Project activities and as a
   result had a negative impact on its overall implementation.

i) In terms of areas of opportunity, greater harmonization between GoM and
   Bank procurement procedures could be sought, even though there are already

                                    20
          documents streamlining Federal Government and World Bank processes. It
          would be also advisable to establish work programs on time and in accordance
          to reality, including clear hiring procedures that expedite processes so the
          products delivered can be used to influence the final results. Finally, it would
          be convenient to improve project preparation by working jointly and with
          better coordination and communication among involved stakeholders.

68.   The Borrower also provided additional editorial comments in other sections of the
ICR. These have been addressed in finalizing the document.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

69.    IADB supported Performance Based Budgeting through a loan, but did not work
in coordination with the World Bank. Based on the interviews of stakeholders of the
reforms, the Banks were seen as almost competing and not aligned technically.




                                           21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                             Appraisal Estimate                                 Percentage of
         Components                                   Estimate
                                (US$ millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                    (US$ millions)
Component 1                             7.6                 0                          0.00
Component 2                             4                   0                          0.00
Component 3                             4                   0                          0.00

Component 4                                 10.050                 0.875*              8.70

Component 5                                  6.275                 0                   0.00
          Total Baseline Cost               31.495                 0.875               2.80
Physical Contingencies
                                             0.00                  0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                             0.00                  0.00                0.00
             Total Project Costs             0.00                  0.00
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                  0.00                0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.43                  0.43                0.00
     Total Financing Required               31.925                 0.918**             2.90

Source: Informe de avance segundo semestre de 2013, UED - SHCP
*Sum of Loan Disbursement of US$330,576.52 and Counterpart Fund Contributions of US$543,391.
**May not equal due to rounding off.

(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of                              Percentage of
          Source of Funds                              Estimate    Estimate
                                        Cofinancing                             Appraisal
                                                      (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
 Borrower                                             14.725        0.543             3.70
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                      17.200        0.331             1.90
and Development




                                               22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

As discussed in the main section of the ICR, the executed Project activities relate to
Component 4. Below presents the outputs under said Component.

Component 4 - Results-Based Management and Evaluation System Consolidation

1.       The key outputs delivered by Component 4 of the Project are described below:

a) Budget Transparency Portal (BTP): Since 2011, SHCP has had in place a Budget
   Transparency Portal (www.transparenciapresupuestaria.gob.mx) on which
   performance information of the budget programs can be found, as well as public
   financial information. The main objectives and contents of this portal are describe in
   the table below:

                     Table 2.1. Objectives and contents of the BTP

               Objectives                                    Content
       More transparency in Public              Public Finance Statistics
        Resources Management                    Transferred resources to the local
                                                 governments
                                                Budget Information
                                                Quarterly Reports in Open Data formats
                                                Cuenta de la Hacienda Pública Federal

Budget transparency towards citizens            Citizen Budget
         (friendly language)                    Cuenta Pública Ciudadana or Public
                                                 Accounts for Citizens
                                                Frequently Asked Questions
                                                Glossary

     Transparency by Thematic areas,          Investment Projects
       focused on citizens interests          Performance Information (indicators and
                                               goals)
                                             External/Independent Evaluations
                                             Aid and support for Natural Disasters
                                               Reconstruction
     Source: Final Report and Results Framework Matrix, UED, SHCP. April 21, 2014.


     The main strength of the portal compared to other countries is the fact that all the
     performance information is public, including external evaluations (more than a
     thousand) and MIRs (results indicators matrix) with indicators (757). There is also
     access to public investment information including those funded under special funds
     such as FONDEN (or Natural Disaster Fund). The UED has also reached out to
     NGOs and civil society to ensure that the information is useful for their purposes and
                                            23
   understandable for everyone. For instance, the information included in the citizen
   budget for 2014 explains in a friendly manner the following topics:

       Growth
       Total Budget
       Sources of revenue and debt
       Deficit
       Functional Classification of Expenditures (why the Government spends?)
       Administrative Classification of Expenditures (who spends?)
       Economic Classification of Expenditures (on what the Government spends?)
       Investment Projects
       Measures taken to reduce expenditures
       SED information such as percentage of expenditures with performance indicators
       Links to more detailed information

b) Methodology and Manuals were developed, including:
   - “Methodology to develop and implement budget transparency portals at the
     federal and local levels (technical and functional)”
   - “Guide to establish and monitor goals for federal entities and agencies of the
     Government”
   - “Training Manual to monitor Budget Program’s objectives based on strategic
     indicators”
   - “Improved guide to design strategic and management indicators”

c) Various Training Programs have been and will continue to be conducted:
   - Online Training
   - Training for Trainers
   - Training based on identified challenges on MIRs (theory, practical, continued
      technical assistance, ad hoc workshops)
   - Training to improve the Single Format System or Sistema de Formato Único
      (SFU), i.e. information collection and registration as well as quality of
      information.

2.      A full account of the outputs completed by the Project under component 4 is
presented in the table below. These outputs were mostly financed by counterpart funds
and contributed towards achieving the intermediate result indicator “Consolidation of the
performance evaluation system’s (SED) institutional architecture and strengthening the
system for evaluating policy and program effectiveness” by supporting the targets
specified below as well.

                 Table 2.2. Completed Project outputs by source of financing

                                            Original   Executed
                 Output                                                     Target supported
                                            Budget      Budget
Outputs financed with loan resources        346,000     325,884
Consultancy to prepare and facilitate the    31,000     24,259    Evaluation unit operational in SFP,

                                                  24
Project’s selection and hiring processes (1)                           including an institutional
                                                                       performance evaluation system
Methodological guide for the technical and                             Evaluation unit operational in SFP,
functional implementation of the transparency                          including an institutional
                                                   40,000    40,000
web portal at the federal and subnational                              performance evaluation system
levels
Development of minimum criteria and                                    Evaluation unit operational in SFP,
transparency guidelines for the federal and        32,000    32,000    including an institutional
subnational governments                                                performance evaluation system
                                                                       The SED unit manages the
Collection of feedback on PBR program and
                                                   52,000    52,000    evaluation of non-social programs
the SED
                                                                       successfully
                                                                       Set of strategic indicators has
                                                                       improved after support and training
Training of trainers course                        33,000    33,000
                                                                       provided to Government officials in
                                                                       charge of programs
                                                                       Evaluation unit operational in SFP,
Consultancy for the analysis of budget
                                                   18,000    18,000    including an institutional
strategic indicators for the 2013 budget cycle
                                                                       performance evaluation system
                                                                       Evaluation unit operational in SFP,
Consultancy for the maintenance of the
                                                   18,000    18,000    including an institutional
Budget transparency portal
                                                                       performance evaluation system
                                                                       Set of strategic indicators has
Consultancy for the implementation of the                              improved after support and training
                                                   18,000    18,000
SFU                                                                    provided to Government officials in
                                                                       charge of programs
                                                                       Set of strategic indicators has
Consultancy for the conceptualization and
                                                                       improved after support and training
analysis of the information produced by the        25,000    25,000
                                                                       provided to Government officials in
SFU
                                                                       charge of programs
                                                                       Evaluation unit operational in SFP,
Consultancy to prepare and facilitate the
                                                   52,000    37,500    including an institutional
Project’s selection and hiring processes (2)
                                                                       performance evaluation system
Consultancy for the establishment of a                                 Evaluation unit operational in SFP,
monitoring and evaluation system for the           27,000    28,125    including an institutional
Project’s selection and hiring processes                               performance evaluation system
Outputs financed with local resources              574,093   574,093
TOR for the carrying out of the activities to be
conducted under components iii, iv and v of        102,241   102,241   -
the Project
External audit for loan 7622-MX                     2,852     2,852    -
                                                                       Set of strategic indicators has
Results-based budgeting online course
                                                                       improved after support and training
(auditing and results-oriented indicators          469,000   469,000
                                                                       provided to Government officials in
modules).
                                                                       charge of programs




                                                        25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


1.       The overarching goals of the reforms supported by the Project aimed at increasing
transparency and strengthening good governance and accountability in the Sistema de
Evaluación al Desempeño (SED), which are difficult to measure. Therefore, the
economic and financial analysis for this operation needs to go beyond quantitative
estimations and rely on qualitative data. The assumption is that the support to the GoM’s
institution building efforts provided by the Project, notably in terms of results-based
management and budgeting, has contributed to a more transparent and accountable
governance framework. However, the outputs of the reforms carried out by the GoM,
including the Programa de Mejora de la Gestión (PMG) and Presupuesto Basado en
Resultados (PBR), as well as the SED and the sectorial strategies and specific programs,
are not fully attributable to the Project or a single reform initiative, and their impact may
not be apparent in the short-term.

2.      Overall, the Project supported the introduction of better management practices,
processes and tools in the Mexican public administration, including better and timely
performance information, enhanced reporting and evaluation of public programs, and
transparent and available budget information. The most important instrument in this
regard is the Budget Transparency Portal, which was mostly financed with the loan
resources. The adoption of this portal resulted into tangible outcomes in terms of
generating information, since according to the Open Budget Index (OBI), Mexico has
been one of the countries that provides “significant budget information” in their portal
since 2012. Today most budget information is presented in Open Data format, which
allows the private sector, NGOs and civil society in general to access what is relevant for
them. In fact, online visits increased to 28.5% in 2013 compared to 2012, and as of the
first quarter of 2014, there was an increase of almost 50% compared to the same period
of 2013 and more than doubled compared to the first quarter of 2012.

3.       At the same time, the Project financed the training of officials through a series of
activities, including online courses, workshops and the development of a series of
manuals and methodologies. These initiatives were aimed at increasing the capacity of
public officials to collect, monitor and evaluate budget information, and now appear to
have achieved good results. At the end of 2013, out of the 981 budget programs included
in the programmable budget (the total is 1,005), 854 programs have performance
information, which is equivalent to 87% of the programmable budget. The work has
continued in the first semester of 2014, when the SHCP presented the “Guidelines to
register, revise, update, schedule and monitor the Budget Programs Results Indicators
Matrix (MIR)”.

4.       The upward trend in the use of information by the public, along with the training
received by officials, also suggests a positive impact of the Project in terms of creating an
institutional context more conducive to efficiency. Although it cannot be quantified, it
seems likely that the combined effect of greater accountability and increased capacity



                                             26
will produce financial savings eventually, ultimately boosting the quality of public
expenditures in Mexico.




                                        27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    (a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                              Title                Unit
                                                                               Specialists
Lending
Pedro Arizti                  Senior Public Sector Specialist      LCSPS TTL
Rosa Maria Hernandez-
                              Senior Executive Assistant           LCC1C Assistant
Fernandez
                                                                         Management and HR
Mariano Lafuente              Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.            LCSPS
                                                                         Improvement
Karla Soledad Lopez Flores    Operations Assistant                 CTGBD Assistant
Felix Prieto Arbelaez         Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
Jeffrey James Rinne           Consultant                           PRMPS HR Management
Fernando Rojas                Consultant                           LCSPS Public Sector
Maria Guadalupe Toscano
                              Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.            LCSPS
Nicolas
Manuel Antonio Vargas
                              Lead Financial Management Spec      MNAFM
Madrigal
Supervision/ICR
Juan Carlos Alvarez           Senior Counsel                       LEGES
Pedro Arizti                  Senior Public Sector Specialist      LCSPS TTL
                                                                         Financial
Dmitri Gourfinkel             Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM
                                                                         Management
Alberto Leyton                Senior Public Sector Specialist      ECSP4 TTL
                              Senior Financial Management
Xiomara A. Morel                                                   LCSFM
                              Specialist
Victor Manuel Ordonez Conde   Senior Finance Officer               CTRLN
Jeffrey James Rinne           Consultant                           PRMPS HR Management
Tomas Socias                  Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
Maria Guadalupe Toscano
                              Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.            LCSPS
Nicolas
Manuel Antonio Vargas
                              Lead Financial Management Spec      MNAFM
Madrigal
May Olalia                    Senior Operations Officer            LSCPS
Azul del Villar Baston        Consultant                           LCSPS ICR
Eguiar Lizundia Gonzalez      Consultant                           LCSPS ICR

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                             US$ Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY07                                                 2.81                    18.963
 FY08                                                52.03                   301.141
 FY09                                                27.55                   131.268
                              Total:                 82.39                   451.373

                                                28
Supervision/ICR
 FY09                        11.19    41.890
 FY10                        25.14    89.238
 FY11                        19.33    82.145
 FY12                        21.75   108.016
 FY13                        25.39    99.577
 FY14                        17.20    95.645
                  Total:    120.00   516.604




                           29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                     31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                      33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document on a Results-based Management and Budgeting Loan
(Report No: 46271-MX), 2008

Mexico Country Partnership Strategy FY14-19

Mexico Country Partnership Strategy 2008-2012

Proposed Project Restructuring of Results-based Management and Budgeting Loan
(Report Number 68464-MX), 2012.

Proyecto de Apoyo a la Gestión y Presupuesto para Resultados Préstamo 7622-
MXBanco Internacional de Reconstrucción y Fomento. Informe de Progreso en la
Ejecucion del Proyecto, Segundo Semestre 2013. SHCP, abril 21, 2014.




                                        34
0
