                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank
                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                 Report No: 68464-MX




                           RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                      ON A

                        PROPOSED RESTRUCTURING

                                      FOR A

      RESULTS-BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING PROJECT

                          LOAN 7622-MX
              (BOARD APPROVAL DATE: DECEMBER 11, 2008)


                                     TO THE

                         UNITED MEXICAN STATES


                               OCTOBER 3, 2012




Public Sector Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.
                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CONEVAL National Evaluation Council of Social Programs (Consejo Nacional de
        Evaluación de la Política de Desarrollo Social)
GoM     Government of Mexico
IADB    Inter-American Development Bank
IEG     Independent Evaluation Group
IFAI    Federal Institute for Information Access (Instituto Federal de Acceso a la
        Información y Protección de Datos)
IMF     International Monetary Fund
INFOTEC Public Center of Innovation and Technological Development (Fondo de
        Información y Documentación para la Industria)
IT      Information Technology
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFIN   (Nacional Financiera)
NDP     National Development Plan
OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PBR-SED (Presupuesto Basado en Resultados y Sistema de Evaluación del
        Desempeño)
PFM     Public Financial Management
PI      Performance Information
PSBR    Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
RBB     Results-based budgeting
SE      Undersecretary of Expenditures (Subsecretaría de Egresos)
SFP     Ministry of Public Administration (Secretaría de la Función Pública)
SHCP    Ministry of Finance (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público)
SIDAFF  Integrated Federal Financial Management System (Sistema Integral de
        Administración Financiera Federal)
SISED   Performance Evaluation Program Information System (Sistema de
        Información para el Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño)




               Regional Vice President:     Hasan Tuluy
                      Country Director:     Gloria Grandolini
              Sector Manager / Director:    Arturo Herrera/Rodrigo A. Chaves
                     Task Team Leader:      Pedro Arizti
                                 MEXICO
             RESULTS-BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING PROJECT

                                                             CONTENTS


A. SUMMARY ................................................................................................................................... 5

B. PROJECT STATUS ....................................................................................................................... 6

C. PROPOSED CHANGES ................................................................................................................. 8

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY ........................................................................................................... 12



ANNEX 1: Results Framework and Monitoring Project ................................................................... 13

ANNEX 2: Achievements by Government Using Own Resources ................................................... 16

ANNEX 3: Project Cost and Financing Plan (Original and Revised) ................................................ 19

ANNEX 4: Project Cost and Financing Plan (Original and Revised) ................................................ 24
                                         MEXICO

          RESULTS-BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING PROJECT

                                        DATA SHEET



Restructuring                                                                       Status: FINAL

Restructuring Type: Level one

Last modified on date : 07/24/2012



1. Basic Information

Project ID & Name                            P106528: X Results-based Mgmt. and Bugdeting

Country                                      Mexico

Task Team Leader                             Pedro Arizti

Sector Manager/Director                      Arturo Herrera Gutierrez

Country Director                             Gloria M. Grandolini

Original Board Approval Date                 12/11/2008

Original Closing Date:                       12/31/2013

Current Closing Date                         12/31/2013

Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]        N/A

EA Category                                  C-Not Required

Revised EA Category                          C-Not Required-Not Required

EA Completion Date                           N/A

Revised EA Completion Date                   N/A




                                                                                        2
2. Revised Financing Plan (US$m)

Source                                               Original                   Revised

BORR                                                      15.70                             2.29

IBRD                                                      17.24                             4.44

Total                                                     32.94                             6.73

3. Borrower

         Organization                      Department                        Location

Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito                                   Mexico
Publico

4. Implementing Agency

          Organization                     Department                       Location

Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito                                  Mexico
Publico

5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)

Actual amount disbursed as of 10/26/2012                                                    0.00

          Fiscal Year                       Annual                          Cumulative

2012                                                    0.00                                0

2013                                                    2.22                                2.22

2014                                                    2.22                                4.44

                                                  Total                                     4.44




                                                                                        3
6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                N




Does the restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, please select              N
from the checklist below and update ISDS accordingly before submitting the package.

7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes

Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes

The development objective of the project is to establish that federal departments and agencies in Mexico
provide decision makers and the public with rigorous, timely, user-friendly information on the efficiency
and effectiveness of government organizations and program expenditures.

7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes



The objective of the Project is to strengthen SHCP’s capacity to: (i) allow the use of standardized
performance information of priority public programs during budget preparation; (ii) generate harmonized
sub-national fiscal information; and (iii) disseminate budget performance information to the Borrower’s
citizens on a regular basis.




                                                                                                4
                                       MEXICO

     RESULTS-BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING PROJECT

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER




A. SUMMARY

1.      This Restructuring Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to amend
the Project Development Objective (PDO) of the Results-Based Management and
Budgeting Project (IBRD 76220) by aligning the PDO to a reduced project scope and
partial loan cancellation. The original PDO reads: “The objective of the project is to
strengthen the Borrower’s capacity (through its federal departments and agencies) to
provide decision makers and the public with rigorous, timely, user-friendly information
on the efficiency and effectiveness of government organizations and their program
expenditures.? The revised PDO would be: “The objective of the project is to
strengthen Ministry of Finance - Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público (SHCP’s)
capacity to: (i) allow the use of standardized performance information of priority public
programs during budget preparation; (ii) generate harmonized sub national fiscal
information; and (iii) disseminate budget performance information to the Borrower’s
citizens on a regular basis.?

2.          The proposed restructuring would also introduce the following changes:

     (i)       the reduction in project scope through the cancellation of Parts 1
               (Management Improvement Program) and 2 (Results-Based Management and
               Budgeting Integrated Information Systems) as a result of changes in
               Government priorities and use of own resources;
     (ii)      the revision to the results indicators to align the expected results with the
               activities that will be undertaken under the restructured Project;
     (iii)     redesign of Parts 3 (Financial Management Strengthening for Results-Based
               Budgeting), 4 (Results-Based Management and Evaluation System
               Consolidation) and 5 (Monitoring and Evaluation) including elimination and
               addition of activities due to change in priorities and the completion of some
               activities using local funds;
     (iv)      the restructured project would now be implemented solely by the SHCP
               through its Subscretaria de Egresos;
     (v)       the revision in project financing reflecting cancellation of US$12.756 million
               of the loan amount (from US$17.243 million to US$4.4866 million including
               the front-end fee) and revisions to the costs by component, financing plan and
               expenditure categories;
                                                                                            5
   (vi)    the revision to the procurement arrangements to apply the Consultant and
           Procurement Guidelines of May 2004 as revised October 1, 2006 and May 1,
           2010 to the restructured Project and would enable application of the
           Guidelines that are harmonized with currently authorized policies and
           procedures for externally funded projects in the country; and
   (vii)   the revisions to the procurement plan and implementation schedule as result of
           the reduction in Project scope and partial loan cancellation.

3.     The proposed restructuring would allow achievement of the revised PDO and
completion of the restructured project within the current closing date of December 31,
2013. These proposed changes have been approved by Management and discussed and
agreed with the Government of Mexico. The proposed restructuring does not trigger any
new safeguard policies.


B. PROJECT STATUS

4.     The Project was approved by the Board on December 11, 2008. The legal
agreement (IBRD-7622-MX) for a loan of US$17.243 million was signed on April 21,
2009 and became effective on March 19, 2010 due to an unanticipated delay in the
execution of the administrative agreements (Contratos de Mandato) between the
financing agency (National Financiera, NAFIN) and the implementing agencies
(Ministry of Public Administration - Secretaría de la Función Pública, SFP and Ministry
of Finance - Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, SHCP). To date, only the Front
End Fee of US$43,108 has been disbursed under the loan.         No further request for
disbursement has been made, but a number of activities are ready for contracting
(amounting to about US$1 million) and others are in an advanced stage of bid review.
The Government has requested for a partial cancellation of the Project (US$12.756
million equivalent to 74% of Loan amount), mainly from Parts 1 and 2.

5.      The Government remains committed to the overall objective of the Project that
supports a critical public sector reform, namely the introduction of results-based
management and budgeting in the context of a continued effort to modernize and
harmonize public financial management (PFM) rules and procedures in all levels of
government in Mexico. However, given the request for a partial cancellation received on
August 8, 2011 and some changes in national priorities, and that some activities have
been already advanced using local funds, the Government is requesting a reduction in
Project scope and redesign of activities to better align them with current priorities. In this
regard, the processing of the cancellation by the Bank was delayed pending validation of
the final set of activities that would need to be dropped and those that needed to be
incorporated under the restructured Project to ensure viability after restructuring.

6.     Using its own resources, significant progress was made by the Government in
pursuing the indicated PFM reform agenda particularly in the areas of results-based
budgeting, performance evaluation, accounting harmonization, fiscal transparency and
public procurement management. The most important achievements in these areas are
                                                                                             6
    presented below (see Annex 2 for details):

    7.       Results-Based budgeting and performance evaluation : The PBR-SED1
    reform led by the Undersecretary of Expenditures (Subsecretaria de Egresos -
    SE) has successfully advanced the design and introduction of specific guidelines and
    instruments to gradually adopt a results and performance orientation in the Federal
    Government’s budgeting process. By developing a conceptual model, the new system
    articulates two instruments aiming at incorporating the results and performance
    dimensions into the resource allocation procedures, i.e., the adoption of performance
    indicators for public sector programs and the implementation of systematic evaluation
    activities over public sector policies and programs.

    8.      Accounting harmonization: As part of the overall strategy to modernize public
    sector financial management practices in the country, the Government started an
    ambitious program towards the harmonization of public accounts and accounting
    practices across Federal and sub-national governments. Introducing results-informed
    management capabilities require adequate accounting, reporting and consolidation of
    information mechanisms as a sine qua non condition for success. Thus, based on
    timelines clearly established in legislation passed at the request of the Administration,
    efforts were deployed to modernize and harmonize accounting systems.

    9.       Fiscal transparency: The SE has also achieved significant progress in the fiscal
    transparency agenda. After a broad consultation and participatory process involving
    specialized NGOs and experts and in collaboration with the Access to Information
    regulatory entity Federal Institute for Information Access (Instituto Federal de Acceso a
    la Información y Protección de Dato - IFAI), the SE launched a fiscal transparency
    Portal 2 that provides access to detailed information on the allocation and use of
    federal government’s resources. The portal is now fully operational and has also
    included a citizens’ friendly application –presupuesto ciudadano- that not only
    facilitates access to budget information, but also describes the budgetary process in a
    very accessible way for citizens.

    10.    The SFP has been also advancing the public sector management modernization
    agenda complementing efforts in areas related to the improvement of public sector
    management practices, streamlining internal regulatory frameworks, and modernizing the
    Federal Government’s public procurement system and procedures.

    11.     Progress achieved by both the SE and SFP is fully in line with the PDO and have
    received Bank’s feedback and guidance. In the case of the PBR-SED effort, the Bank
    sustained technical dialogue during Project supervision for those activities that should be
    carried out through the Bank loan. On the other hand, the PFM harmonization work was
    supported through both Bank supervision activities and a parallel advisory services
    activity.

1
    PBR-SED stands for Presupuesto Basado en Resultados y Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño .
2
    For more details visit http://www.transparenciapresupuestaria.gob.mx
                                                                                                  7
12.      Nevertheless, given the long time elapsed since the loan’s approval due to
significant delays experienced to get the loan signed and effective (18 months since
approval), in tandem with lengthy procurement processes that resulted from multiple
reviews and the participation of three involved parties (the implementing entity, the
financial agent and the Bank), the Government was not able to utilize the loan proceeds
to support these activities and advanced the same with its own resources.

13.      After assessing this situation and taking into account the proximity of Presidential
elections to take place in July 2012 and the change of administration to take place in early
2013, the SFP indicated its preference to cancel its activities in the Project, which are
covered mainly under Part 1 of the loan that was under its responsibility while the SE
requested cancellation of Part 2 of the loan and updating of the activities to be supported
under Parts 3, 4 and 5 from the Bank’s loan. The proposed Project restructuring reflects
agreements with both implementing entities.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

Project’s Development Objectives

14.      The original PDO: “The objective of the Project is to strengthen the
Borrower’s capacity (through its federal departments and agencies) to provide decision
makers and the public with rigorous, timely, user-friendly information on the
efficiency    and effectiveness of government organizations and their program
expenditures.? would be revised to reflect the reduction in Project scope and loan
cancellation.

15.      The proposed new PDO formulation is: “The objective of the Project is to
strengthen SHCP’s capacity to: (i) allow the use of standardized performance information
of priority public programs during budget preparation; (ii) generate harmonized sub
national fiscal information; and (iii) disseminate budget performance information to the
Borrower’s citizens on a regular basis.?

Results Indicators

16.       The restructuring proposes revisions to the Project’s results framework and
indicators. In particular, the PDO-level indicators would be revised to ensure alignment
and consistency with the revised formulation of the PDO taking into account what could
realistically be achieved at exit given the reduction in Project scope, partial loan
cancellation and remaining implementation period.        These changes in PDO-level
indicators are provided in Table 1 below:




                                                                                            8
                     Table 1. PDO Level Indicators: Original and Revised
      Original PDO-Level Indicator              Revised PDO-Level Indicator
      Indicator One: Performance information Indicator One (Revised): Performance
      presented in budget requests from line information using            a performance
      ministries to SHCP and in budget framework is generated and used during
      submitted to Congress                     budget requests discussion between line
                                                secretariats and SHCP
      Indicator Two: Satisfaction of Congress Indicator Two (Revised): An active
      and civil society organizations with the network and a portal to inform society at
      performance information made available large on a regular basis about budget
      via government websites (as measured performance, increasing transparency and
      through user surveys)                     accountability to citizens
      Indicator Three: Percent of programs Indicator Three (Revised): Percent of
      with improved strategic design and public programs for which there is
      reporting                                 performance information using a
                                                standardized performance framework
      Indicator    Four:      Progression    of Indicator Four (Drop Original and replace
      organizations through the steps (levels) with New): Percent of municipalities that
      established for each PMG system, have a simplified financial management
      marking       increased      levelsof     system installed and working
      administrative capacity and efficiency

17.    Likewise, the original intermediate outcome-level indicators would be dropped
and replaced with new indicators that would better articulate the Project’s results
given the reduced Project scope, the changes in Project activities and the
remaining implementation period. (See Annex 1 for details.)

Components

18.      Project components would be revised as follows (see details in Annex 3):

            i.    Parts 1 (Management Improvement Program) and 2 (Results-Based
                  Management and Budgeting Integrated Information Systems) would be
                  cancelled.

            ii.   Part 3 (Financial Management Strengthening for Results-Based
                  Budgeting) would continue as originally designed with some changes in
                  activities that focus on modernizing Government accounting and public
                  accounts and harmonizing and integrating budget execution reporting.

           iii. Part 4 (Results-Based Management and Evaluation System Consolidation)
                would be revised to update Project activities with respect to consolidating
                the Government evaluation system and to include a fourth sub-component
                according to the following description:

                  Part 4 (iv): the provision of support to the Borrower’s fiscal transparency
                                                                                           9
                 initiatives including: (A) the participatory design and implementation of
                 an integrated fiscal transparency web portal and the design of guidelines
                 and regulations to foster fiscal transparency in the Borrower’s federal,
                 state and municipal levels of government.

            iv. Part 5 (Monitoring and Evaluation) would continue as is with some
                changes in activities including cancellation of activities originally to be
                implemented by SFP.

Institutional arrangements

19.    The Project was originally approved with both SHCP and SFP as implementing
agencies. With the restructuring, the Project would now be implemented solely by SHCP
through its Subsecretaria de Egresos which requires an amendment of the Contrato de
Mandato to eliminate SFP’s obligations. The Bank and the Borrower have agreed that
within sixty (60) days from date of the amendment letter, the Borrower would provide the
Bank with an executed copy of the amendment to the Contrato de Mandato.The
executed amendment to the Contrato de Mandato would reflect the changes in
implementation arrangements in a manner consistent with the restructuring.

Financing

20.      Total Project cost would be reduced from US$31.925 million to
US$6.7335 million (excluding the IBRD Loan’s Front-end Fee). In terms of the Project’s
financing plan, the reduction in total Project cost would reduce both the
counterpart fund contribution as well as the required IBRD loan amount (i.e., from
US$17.243 million to US$4.4866 million including the front end fee). Details on the
revised Project cost by component and revised financing plan are presented in Table 2
below:


                      Table 2: Summary of Project Cost and Financing Plan
                             Project Costs (US$m.)
     Components/Activities       Current      Current     Proposed Proposed       Total After
                                  Local        IBRD         Local       IBRD     Restructuring
  Part 1. Management                     0         7.600          0          0                0
  improvement program (PMG)

  Part 2. Development of an          2.100        1.900          0          0                0
  Integrated Information
  System for Results-Based
  Budgeting and Management
  (SISED)

  Part 3. Strengthening              2.075        1.925      1.850       2.925           4.775
  Financial Information for the
  implementation of Results
  Based Budgeting

                                                                                            10
Part 4. Consolidation of the             6.050           4.000          0.440        1.131            1.571
Performance Evaluation
System and Results Based
Budgeting

Part 5. Institutional                    4.500           1.775              0       0.3875            .3875
Strengthening and Program’s
Monitoring and Evaluation

             TOTAL                      14.725          17.200           2.29       4.4435           6.7335


Reallocations

21.      The proposed restructuring would require reallocation of Loan proceeds to
reflect the financing requirement of the restructured Project. Likewise, Section IV.A.2
of Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement would be revised to reflect the cancelled portion
of the IBRD loan. (See table 3 below.)

Cancellations

22.       A total of US$ 12,756,392 would be cancelled from the IBRD loan.

                             Table 3. Reallocation of Loan Proceeds
        Category of                  Allocation                                 % of Financing
        Expenditure            Current        Revised                Current                    Revised
      (1) Goods                   400,000              0              100%                       100%
      (2) Consultants          14,869,892 3,443,500.50                100%                       100%
      (3) Training              1,930,000 1,000,000.00                100%                       100%
      (4) Front-end fee            43,108      43,107.50           Amount payable Amount payable pursuant
                                                                 pursuant to Section     to Section 2.03 of this
                                                                         2.03 of this Agreement in accordance
                                                                      Agreement in     with Section 2.07 (b) of
                                                                    accordance with     the General Conditions
                                                                 Section 2.07 (b) of
                                                                        the General
                                                                         Conditions

      (5) Premia for                    0               0
          Interest Rate
          Caps and
          Interest rate
          Collars
          (amounts due
          under section
          2.07 (c) of this
          Agreement)

Cancelled as of August                       12,756,392
8, 2011
     Total Amount              17,243,000    17,243,000
of which, Revised Loan
        Amount                                   4,486,608

                                                                                                         11
Procurement

23.       The Project was originally approved to be implemented using the Procurement
and Consultant Guidelines published by the Bank on May 2004 and revised in October
2006. Given the time elapsed in implementing the Project, the restructured Project would
be implemented using applicable Procurement and Consultants Guidelines of May 2004
as revised October 1, 2006 and May 1, 2010. This would enable the Project to apply the
Guidelines that are harmonized with currently authorized policies and procedures for
externally funded projects in the country.

Financial Management

24.      Financial management arrangements for the implementation of the Project
remain adequate. Accordingly, the current FM ISR rating is Satisfactory. While the loan
has not disbursed other than the front end fee, Interim Financial Reports should be
presented to the Bank within the period stipulated in the loan agreement as soon as
disbursement forProject activities starts and it is expected that the first audit of the Project
would cover the period from effectiveness up to the end of the borrower fiscal year 201 3.

Implementation Schedule

25.     With the Project scope narrowed and partial loan cancellation, the procurement
plan and       implementation schedule have been updated accordingly. The revised
procurement plan (submitted on April 30, 2012 and approved on May 7, 2012) and
implementation schedule would also address procurement challenges earlier experienced
by the Project. Moreover, the task team would work closely with the SE and NAFIN to
manage emerging implementation and/or procurement bottlenecks.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

26.       The Project remains viable and relevant in achieving the desired outcomes of the
Mexico Country Partnership Strategy FY2008-2013 with respect to strengthening
institutions particularly in providing decisions makers and the public with rigorous,
timely, user-friendly information on the efficiency and effectiveness of Government
agencies and program expenditures. The restructuring would not significantly alter the
results of the fiduciary and safeguards appraisal of the Project. No new risks have been
identified under the restructuring. Moreover, there are no exceptions required to Bank
policy.




3
    There being no disbursement to date except for the Front-End Fee.
                                                                                             12
                                                          ANNEX 1: Results Framework and Monitoring Project

                                                  MEXICO: RESULTS-BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING



Project Development Objective (PDO):
“Federal departments and agencies in Mexico provide decision makers and the public with rigorous, timely, user -friendly information on the efficiency and effectiveness of
government organizations and program expenditures.?
Revised Project Development Objective:
“The objective of the Project is to strengthen SHCP’s capacity to: (i) allow the use of standardized performance information of priority public programs during budget
preparation; (ii) generate harmonized sub national fiscal information; and (iii) disseminate budget performance information to the Borrower’s citizens on a regular basis.?
                                          D=Dropped                                                                                                                    Data
                                          C=Continue                                                                                                                              Responsibili
                                                                                                                                                            Frequ     Source/
                                          N= New                                                                    Cumulative Target Values**                                    ty for Data
                                                                                                                                                             ency    Methodolog
                                          R=Revised                                                                                                                                Collection
                                                                                                                                                                         y
                                   Core




     PDO Level Results                                 Unit of
                                                                                 Baseline
       Indicators*                                     Measure
                                                                                                            Y   Y     Y
                                                                                                                                       YR4
                                                                                                            R   R     R
                                                                                                                                      (2013)
                                                                                                            1   2     3

Indicator One:                            R            Qualitati   Performance information is not                         Performance information is        End of   SHCP         SHCP
Performance information using                          ve          widely used by line secretariats in                    used by SHCP during budget        Projec
a performance framework is                                         their budget requests. Budget                          preparation in conversation       t
generated and used during                                          preparation discussions are mainly                     with line ministries. SHCP
budget requests discussion                                         focused on inputs and are not based                    uses standardized
between line secretariats and                                      on standardized performance                            performance information that
SHCP                                                               information that allow to measure                      allow to measure relevance,
                                                                   relevance, efficiency of                               efficiency of effectiveness of
                                                                   effectiveness of programs.                             programs.
Indicator Two:                            R            Qualitati   Budget performance information is                      There is a portal containing      End of   SHCP         SHCP
An active network and a portal                         ve          readily available to civil society via                 financial and non financial       Projec
to inform civil society at large                                   the new portal but has not been                        performance information           t
on a regular basis about budget                                    expanded to all levels of                              about the budget and its
performance increasing                                             Government                                             process available for citizens,
transparency and accountability                                                                                           and the information has been
to citizens                                                                                                               expanded to all the levels of
                                                                                                                          Government

                                                                                                                                                                                                 13
Indicator Three:                     R             %           In 2008 the percentage of public                     For the 2013 budget             End of   SHCP   SHCP
Percent of public programs for                                 programs using performance                           preparation the percentage of   Projec
which there is performance                                     information was 28%. 4                               programs using performance      t
information using a                                                                                                 information is set to be over
standardized performance                                                                                            75%.
framework

Indicator Four:                      N             %           0                                                    Around 80% of                   End of   SHCP   SHCP
Percent of municipalities that                                                                                      approximately 1,200 small       Projec
have a simplified financial                                                                                         municipalities (of total        t
management system installed                                                                                         approximately 2,500
and working                                                                                                         municipalities)




                                                                          INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Intermediate Result (Component One): Design and implementation of a Management Improvement Program (Programa de Mejora de la Gestión )

Revised Intermediate Result (Component One): COMPONENT DROPPED
Intermediate Result indicator One:

Intermediate Result indicator Two:

                            :
Intermediate Result (Component Two): Development of an integrated information system for results-based management
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two): COMPONENT DROPPED
Intermediate Result indicator One:

Intermediate Result indicator Two:

                            :


       4
           By performance information SHCP in this case means log frames populated with monitoring information and program indicators.


                                                                                                                                                                           14
Intermediate Result (Component Three): Strengthening the financial management system


Revised Intermediate Result (Component Three): Strengthening the financial management system reaching out to States, Municipalities and decentralized Government entities

3.1. Number of municipalities that have been trained in        N              #          0                                  Around 80% of approximately            Annual     SHCP        SHCP
the use of the new municipal simplified FMIS.                                                                               1,200 small municipalities
3.2. Functional design developed for the amplified FMIS        N              Qualitati Non existent                        SIDAFF has a module designed           Annual     SHCP        SHCP
that will cover the decentralized institutions in the                         ve                                            for the decentralized institutions
Government
3.3. Design of a conceptual model for integration of           N              Qualitati Non existent                        SIDAFF has a module designed           Annual     SHCP        SHCP
financial information in municipalities, states and                           ve                                            for integrating all three levels of
federation.                                                                                                                 Government
Intermediate Result (Component Four): Consolidation of the performance evaluation system’s (Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño – SED) institutional architecture and strengthening the system
for evaluating policy and program effectiveness (Presupuesto Basado en Resultados – PBR)

Revised Intermediate Result (Component Four): Consolidation of the performance evaluation system’s (Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño – SED) institutional architecture and strengthening the
system for evaluating policy and program effectiveness (Presupuesto Basado en Resultados – PBR)

4.1.Design and dissemination of a number of strategic        N               Qualitati   Non existent                          Strategic social and non social      Annual    SHCP      SHCP
evaluations (e.g. security policy, water policy,                             ve                                                evaluations carried out and
education)                                                                                                                     disseminated through the portal
4.2.Design of terms of reference for non social program      N               Qualitati   Non existent                          Terms of reference for non social    Annual    SHCP      SHCP
evaluations                                                                  ve                                                program evaluations available
                                                             N               Qualitati   Non existent                          Methodology and guidelines for       Annual    SHCP      SHCP
4.3.Development of methodology and guidelines for
                                                                             ve                                                better social program focalization
better social program focalization
                                                                                                                               available
4.4.Public programs portfolio review to identify program  N                Qualitati Non existent                              Public programs portfolio review     Annual    SHCP      SHCP
delays and development of methodology for ex ante                          ve                                                  to carried out and methodology for
screening                                                                                                                      ex ante screening available
Intermediate Result (Component Five): Monitoring and Evaluation of the Reform Interventions


5.1. Design and dissemination of an evaluation for the       N               Qualitati   Non existent                          SED evaluation carried out and       Annual    SHCP      SHCP
SED                                                                          ve                                                disseminated through the portal




                                                                                                                                                                                                  15
            ANNEX 2: Achievements by Government Using Own Resources

    MEXICO: RESULTS-BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING PROJECT

1.      Results-based budgeting and performance evaluation: The PBR-SED5 reform
led by the Undersecretary of Expenditures (Subsecretaria de Egresos - SE) has
successfully advanced the design and introduction of specific guidelines and instruments
to gradually adopt a results and performance orientation in the Federal Government’s
budgeting process. By developing a conceptual model, the new system articulates two
instruments aiming at incorporating the results and performance dimensions into the
resource allocation procedures i.e. the adoption of performance indicators for public
sector programs and the implementation of systematic evaluation activities over public
sector policies and programs.

2.      In the first case, the SE has developed specific guidelines for central government
entities to formulate their strategic plans with standardized Logic Framework
instruments. Performance indicators were developed for each program and, most
recently, the SE has also developed a complex methodology to synthesize, prioritize and
monitor central government programs using results and performance information.
Furthermore, budget classifications used in the budget allocation process have been
adjusted and expanded in order to facilitate most effective monitoring of government
programs allowing for effective results-informed budget deliberations.

3.      To develop evaluation capabilities, a specialized unit was created within the SE to
carry out comprehensive evaluation of selected Federal Government policies and
programs.6 Based on an Annual Evaluation Plan, the new Evaluation Unit commissions
evaluations that analyze government’s programs from its conceptualization to the
technical approach and design, its efficiency and effectiveness in the implementation and
the actual impact and achievement of intended objectives. The evaluations would identify
and highlight positive aspects of each program, but would also point out its deficiencies
and areas for further improvement and development. The results of the evaluations would
then serve as feedback for the preparation and discussion of resource allocation through
the budget process. So far, a number of evaluations have been completed and served as
the basis to start creating evaluation capacity and culture within the Federal Government.
In the short term, the SE plans to carry out evaluations of key Government sector
programs including public security, education and water, three very sensitive areas where
the Government has spent the bulk of the Federal Government’s budget in the past years.

4.      Accounting harmonization: As part of the overall strategy to modernize public
sector financial management practices in the country, the Government started an
ambitious program towards the harmonization of public accounts and accounting
practices across Federal and sub-national governments. Introducing results-informed

5
  PBR-SED stands for Presupuesto Basado en Resultados y Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño .
6
  The law designates CONEVAL, SFP and SHCP as the public entities to coordinate the production of
evaluations. While CONEVAL has the mandate to cover evaluations for social programs, SFP and SHCP
cover the rest of the evaluations for public programs.
                                                                                                    16
management capabilities require adequate accounting, reporting and consolidation of
information mechanisms as a sine qua non condition for success. Thus, based on
timelines clearly established in legislation passed at the request of the Administration,
efforts were deployed to modernize and harmonize accounting systems.

5.      At the Federal level and with Bank support through a separate advisory services
activity, the SE developed a new conceptual model to integrate core PFM functions (i.e.
budget, treasury management and accounting) as well as other related administrative
procedures (i.e. human resources, acquisition, use and maintenance of assets and
materials, and provision of services) and formulated the basis of the new integrated
financial management information system named SIDAFF. Besides providing a common
framework and instruments for the integration of core PFM functions within the Ministry of
Finance, the SIDAFF has also provided a model to help in the harmonization efforts
across all Federal Government entities, with a particular emphasis on the simplification
and harmonization of back-office functions in these entities. Full implementation of this
ambitious program remains as a challenge for the remaining of this administration as well as
for a continued effort to be consolidated after the elections to take place in July 2012.

6.      At the sub-national level, the SE has also developed guidelines to support the
accounting harmonization effort and has paid particular attention to provide support to
smaller and less developed municipalities (around 1,200 nationwide) and is in the process of
developing a web-based supported ICT solution to modernize, harmonize and further
consolidate municipal financial information using a common platform. This effort,
currently implemented in partnership with the government’s technology department
INFOTEC, will be complemented with an ambitious capacity building program currently
being prepared by the SE.

7.      Finally, in order to complete the coverage of the accounting harmonization effort,
the Ministry of Finance is now preparing guidelines for decentralized entities and state
owned companies at the federal level as well as developing the consolidation model and
associated instruments that will allow for an automated integration and consolidation of
public accounts at all levels of government and the production of consolidated accounting
reports for the entire public sector according to international best practices.

8.      Fiscal transparency: The SE has also achieved significant progress in the fiscal
transparency agenda. After a broad consultation and participatory process involving
specialized NGOs and experts and in collaboration with the Access to Information
regulatory entity IFAI, the SE launched a fiscal transparency portal 7 that provides access to
detailed information on the allocation and use of federal government’s resources. The
portal is now fully operational and has also included a citizens’ friendly application –
presupuesto ciudadano- that not only facilitates access to budget information, but also
describes the budgetary process in a very accessible way for citizens.

9.     Based on this successful experience the SE is now trying to expand the fiscal
transparency practice to other levels of government by developing both normative
7
    For more details visit http://www.transparenciapresupuestaria.gob.mx
                                                                                            17
incentives to promote transparency in government programs as well as by developing
guidelines and instruments to facilitate transparency efforts in other levels of government.
On the former, the SE will issue regulations that would include the transparency
dimension to the scope of program evaluation activities. On the latter, the SE will partner
with the IFAI to issue specific guidelines for sub-national governments related to the
scope and characteristics of fiscal and budgetary transparency policies and mechanisms
needed for a more effective and harmonized implementation of this agenda across the
public sector in Mexico.

10.    The SFP has been also advancing the public sector management modernization
agenda complementing efforts in areas related to the improvement of public sector
management practices, streamlining internal regulatory frameworks, and modernizing the
Federal Government’s public procurement system and procedures.

11.     Remarkable progress was observed in the modernization of the public
procurement      system. The legal procurement framework has taken important new
directions to provide effective support to economic growth and good governance. The
provisions for framework agreements and the greater role for CompraNet are particularly
significant. These changes have the potential to lead to substantial benefits in public
administration and financial management, and have i mpacted positively on the
operational environment. Consolidating these reforms has been an essential step and has
demanded e changes in the role and expertise of the SFP, and extensions to the
application of CompraNet. Other significant reforms include greater recognition of the
professionalization of the procurement function and recognize best practice in terms of
total cost of ownership and fair dealings.




                                                                                          18
         ANNEX 3: Project Cost and Financing Plan (Original and Revised)

  MEXICO: RESULTS-BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING PROJECT


                     Table 2: Summary of Project Cost and Financing Plan
                             Project Costs (US$m.)
    Components/Activities        Current       Current     Proposed    Proposed     Total After
                                  Local         IBRD        Local        IBRD      Restructuring
Component 1. Management                   0        7.600           0           0                0
improvement program (PMG)

Component 2. Development of          2.100         1.900          0           0                0
an Integrated Information
System for Results-Based
Budgeting and Management
(SISED)




                                                                                                    19
Component 3. Strengthening          2.075   1.925   1.850   2.925   4.775
Financial Information for the
implementation of Results
Based Budgeting

Subcomponent 3a: Support to
Modernize Government
Accounting and Public
Accounts (Cuenta Pública)
Updated activities:
1. Preparation of guidelines for
   public assets registration and
   accounting
2. Preparation of guidelines
   and methodology public
   goods and assets inventory
   and maintenance
3. Development of rules and
   guidelines for cost
   accounting in public
   institutions
4. Institutional strengthening of
   the Government’s
   Accounting Unit of the
   Ministry of Finance
5. Design and pilot
   implementation of federal
   administration of public
   assets and goods.

Subcomponent 3b: Support to
the Improvement of Integrated
Budget Execution Reporting

Updated activities:
1. Dissemination, training and
   implementation of




                                                                            20
                                    Project Costs (US$m.)
     Components/Activities              Current       Current   Proposed   Proposed    Total After
                                         Local         IBRD      Local      IBRD      Restructuring
     harmonized PFM practices
     and tools across
     municipalities
2.   Functional design and
     implementation of SIDAFF
     module to integrate PFM
     related information from
     Government’s decentralized
     entities.
3.   Design of a conceptual
     model to integrate PFM
     related information from the
     municipal, state and federal
     levels.




                                                                                                      21
Component 4. Consolidation of                6.050         4.000      0.440      1.131          1.571
the Performance Evaluation
System and Results Based
Budgeting

Subcomponent 4a:
Consolidating a Government
evaluation system Updated
activities:
1. Identification of causes for
     the delay and
     underperformance of public
     sector budget programs
2. Design of a methodology to
     determine beneficiary
     population of public sector
     programs
3. Adaptation budget
     programmatic classifications
     to allow more accurate
     results interface
4. Preparation and facilitation
     selection processes and
     contracting of the Project to
     support management and
     results based budgeting
5. Preparation of guidelines
     and common terms of
     reference to carry out
     evaluation of non-social
     programs
6. Evaluation of budget
     programs in the Public
     Security sector
7. Evaluation of the
     Partnership for Quality in
     Education Program (local)
8. Evaluation of the Water
     National Commission
                                     Project Costs (US$m.)
     Components/Activities               Current       Current     Proposed   Proposed    Total After
                                          Local         IBRD        Local      IBRD      Restructuring




                                                                                                         22
     Program (local)
9.   Case study and testimony
     book on the
     implementation of the
     PBR-SED reform in
     Mexico

Subcomponent 4b: Alignment
of the National System for
Democratic Planning

Subcomponent 4c:
Implementing results based
management approaches at the
state level

Subcomponent 4d (New):
Support to Fiscal
Transparency initiatives

Updated activities:
1. Preparation of guidelines to
    develop and implement
    Fiscal Transparency Web
    Portals at the Federal and
    sub-national levels
2. Development of guidelines
    and regulations to set
    minimum requirements on
    fiscal transparency for
    Federal and sub-national
Component 5. Institutional         4.500    1.775     0    0.3875   0.3875
Strengthening and Program’s
Monitoring and Evaluation
Updated activities:
1. Monitoring and evaluation
    plan (self-evaluation)
             TOTAL                14.725   17.200   2.29   4.4435   6.7335




                                                                         23
                                                                                                                           ANNEX 4: Project Cost and Financing Plan (Original and Revised)

                                                                                                      MEXICO: RESULTS-BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING PROJECT


Pr oje ct Nam e : Pr oye cto de Apoyo a la Ge s tion y Pr e s upue s to par a Re s ultados
Loan: 7622-SHCP
P.P.: 2012-5
P.P. Last Status Change Date: 13/06/2012
Cate gor y: Cons ultor ía - Fir m as



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    No Objeción a                                           No Objeción Evaluación                                      Fin      del
                                                                                                                                                              Estimated/                              Of f er      PP    y    Lista PP    y  Lista Emisión   del               Evaluación   Evaluación Final      y No Objeción Firma    del Total days Contrato
Description                                                                                                 Status         Identif ier             Estado     Real       A mount in u$s     Bidders   A w arded    Corta            Corta          PP              A pertura   Técnica      Técnica     Negociación al Contrato Contrato     of process (Cumplido)
                                                                                                                                                                                     P.P. - Executing Unit: 2012-5-SHCP - SHCP
                                                                                                                                                                               Method: SBCC (Selección Basada en la Calidad y Costo)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Se reestimo la f echa de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       terminac ión del contrato
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       del 15 de julio al 15 de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       noviembre,   pues     en la
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       versión     2012-4,       la
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       consultoría           esta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       programada      para     04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       meses, y en las f echas
A decuación        de las              estructuras                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     consignadas     se había
programáticas       para            permitir     la                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    consi                <f ont
incorporación de todos los          componentes que                                                           Proceso    en RESULTS_-34-SBCC-CF-   Distrito                                                                                                                                                                                                            1color=blue><em>07/06/2
integran un programa                                                                                          Curso         UPCP-8                 Federal    Est.             120,000.00                          15/05/12        N/A            22/05/12         19/06/12    26/06/12     N/A         03/07/12    N/A         15/07/12             26 15/11/12       012 01:47
                                                          La consultoria       planteada         cambia de
Dif usión y capacitación a Municipios y Entidades         nombre     y     monto,      sustituye      a   la
Federativas en materia de armonización contable           consultoria    Desarrollo e     Implementación del
e integración    de inf ormación     f inanciera          Sistema       Integrado      de     Inf ormación,
derivada      de   la implementación del Sistema          RESULTS._32-SBCC-CF-UCGIGP-14. los
de Inf ormación Financiera Municipal por el               objetivos    estan       alineados       con     la              RESULTS_-43-SBCC-CF-    Distrito
INFOTEC.                                                  consultoria que sustituye. Se presen                Previsto     UCGIGP-16               Federal    Est.           1,750,000.00                          14/03/12        23/03/12       30/03/12         30/04/12    07/05/12     14/05/12    18/05/12    25/05/12    31/05/12             31 31/10/12
                                                          Proceso de reciente incorporación de
Def inición     de     la metodología       para el       conf ormidad con la ayuda de memoria.
levantamiento de inventarios de bienes muebles            Se     presentarán        para      desembolso                   RESULTS_-44-SBCC-CF-    Distrito
en el poder ejecutivo f ederal.                           150000 dólares americanos                           Previsto     UCGIGP-17               Federal    Est.             250,000.00                          14/03/12        23/03/12       30/03/12         30/04/12    07/05/12     14/05/12    18/05/12    25/05/12    31/05/12             31 30/09/12
Desarrollo e implementación de programas                  Proceso de reciente incorporación de
piloto del levantamiento y administración de bienes       conf ormidad con la ayuda de memoria.
en     la    A dministración Pública Federal.             Se     presentarán        para      desembolso                   RESULTS_-45-SBCC-CF-    Distrito
                                                          250000 dólares americanos.                          Previsto     UCGIGP-18               Federal    Est.             350,000.00                          14/03/12        23/03/12       30/03/12         30/04/12    07/05/12     14/05/12    18/05/12    25/05/12    31/05/12             31 31/10/12
Diseño     y    desarrollo      de     las reglas
generales de la contabilidad de costos, para su
aplicación en     México y la aplicación en los
sistemas integrados de inf ormación.                                                                                       RESULTS_-46-SBCC-CF-    Distrito
                                                                                                            Previsto       UCGIGP-19               Federal    Est.             300,000.00                          14/03/12        23/03/12       30/03/12         30/04/12    07/05/12     14/05/12    18/05/12    25/05/12    31/05/12             31 31/10/12
A sistencia técnica para el diseño f uncional y
tecnológico del módulo del Sistema Integrado de
A dministrac ión               Financiera Federal
(SIDA FF)      integrador        de   la inf ormación     Proceso de reciente incorporación de
contable       y     de ejecución presupuestariade        conf ormidad con la ayuda de memoria.
las               instituciones descentralizadas no       Se    presentará   para   desembolso                             RESULTS_-47-SBCC-CF-    Distrito
empre                                                     550.000.00 dólares americanos.        Previsto                   UCGIGP-20               Federal    Est.           1,150,000.00                          14/03/12        23/03/12       30/03/12         30/04/12    07/05/12     14/05/12    18/05/12    25/05/12    31/05/12             31 31/10/12
A poyo en el diseño e instrumentación de la
autoevaluación.         Plan      de       Monitoreo y                                                                     RESULTS_-33-SBCC-CF-    Distrito
Evaluación                                                                                                  Previsto       UPCP-5                  Federal    Est.             387,500.00                          14/05/12        22/05/12       24/05/12         20/06/12    25/06/12     29/06/12    02/07/12    13/07/12    16/07/12             26 17/12/12
Evaluación           de         los      Programas
Presupuestarios           relacionados         con el
Fortalecimiento       Institucional        de        la                                                     Proceso      en RESULTS_-39-SBCC-CF-   Distrito
Seguridad Pública                                                                                           Curso           UPCP-13                Federal    Est.             308,000.00                          15/05/12        22/05/12       24/05/12         22/06/12    29/06/12     06/07/12    13/07/12    20/07/12    23/07/12             31 23/12/12
Elaboración de Términos          de Ref erencia para
los tipos        de Evaluación de Programas                                                                 Proceso      en RESULTS_-35-SBCC-CF-   Distrito
Presupuestarios no sociales                                                                                 Curso           UPCP-9                 Federal    Est.             148,000.00                          15/05/12        N/A            22/05/12         19/06/12    26/06/12     N/A         03/07/12    N/A         15/07/12             26 15/11/12
                                                Proceso de reciente incorporación de
A sistencia   técnica para      desarrollar un conf ormidad con la ayuda de memoria.
modelo conceptual para la integración de la inf Se    presentarán   para  desembolso                                       RESULTS_-48-SBCC-CF-    Distrito
ormación municipal-estatal-f ederal             475,000.00 dólares americanos.       Previsto                              UCGIGP-21               Federal    Est.             775,000.00                          14/03/12        23/03/12       30/03/12         30/04/12    07/05/12     14/05/12    18/05/12    25/05/12    31/05/12             31 30/11/12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Unicamente se modif ica el
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nombre de la consultoría
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a: "Desarrollo de una
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           propuesta   metodológica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           complementaria       para
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           determinar    poblaciones
Desarrollo    de      una     metodología     para     Sustituye a la consultoría RESULTS_-23-                                                                                                                                                                             potencial,   objetivo     y
determinar      las      poblaciones,     potencial,   SBCC-CF-UPCP-1, en virtud de que el                                                                                                                                                                                 atendida     de        los
objetivo y     atendida de        los programas        modif icar el monto estimado de la                                                                                                                                                                                  programas presupuestari
sociales      gubernamentales         de       la A    consultoría es necesario modif icar el                                                                                                                                                                              <f ont
dministración Pública Federal          (A PF)     y    modelo de contrato a suscribir y el sistema no Proceso   en RESULTS_-49-SBCC-CF-   Distrito                                                                                                                         1color=blue><em>07/06/2
establecimiento y criterios técnicos.                  lo permite.                                    Curso        UPCP-16                Federal    Est.   190,114.00   11/05/12   N/A   18/05/12   15/06/12   22/06/12   N/A   29/06/12   N/A   02/07/12   17 02/12/12   012 01:06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25
Identif ic ac ión de las c aus as de demora e
inc umplimiento              de             objetiv os                  en
los programas       pres upues tarios            de        la   APF         y
des arrollo de una metodología general deev
aluac ión            prev ia        y          los          c riterios c Se              modif ic a   el nombre    y   monto     de la
orres pondientes                a         la          pos tulac ión c ons ultoria                     y   c orres ponde   al    Res ult Proc es o      en RESULTS_-41-SBCC-CF-    Dis trito
de programas nuev os a inc or                                                   24- SBCC- CF-UPCP-4                                      Curs o           UPCP-15                 Federal     Es t.               190,114.00                            11/05/12       N/A              18/05/12   15/06/12   22/06/12   N/A   29/06/12   N/A        02/07/12                  17 02/12/12


Fortalec imiento de la capac idad nor mativ a
y    de   s uperv is ión        téc nic a        de       la    Unidad
de Contabilidad              Gubernamental                      e       inf                                                              Ev aluac ión     RESULTS_-25-SSF-CF-     Dis trito
or mes s obre la Ges tión Públic a.                                                                                                      en c urs o       UCGIGP-6                Federal     Es t.               100,000.00                            N/A             N/A             N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A   01/07/11   15/07/11   18/07/11               40375 31/12/11
                                                                                Sus tituy e la cons ultoría de Des arrollo de                                                                                      Method: SSF (Selec ción con bas e en una sola f uente)
                                                                                Reglas      Es pec if ic as    Res ults        29-SSF-
Des arrollo         de    los     lineamientos              para        un UCGICP-6, en virtud de que dic ho trabajo                                      RESULTS_-42-SSF-CF-     Dis trito
s is tema de cos tos .                                                          y a f ué realiz ado por UCGIGP                           Prev is to       UCGIGP-15               Federal     Es t.               100,000.00                            N/A            N/A              N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A   24/02/12   25/03/12   30/03/12               40631 16/07/12




Pr oject Nam e:Pr oye cto de Apoyo a la Ge stio n y Pr esupu e sto par a Re sultados
Loan: 7622-SHCP

P.P.: 2012-5

P.P. Las t Status Change Date: 13/06/2012
Cate gor y: Cons ultor ía - Individuo s


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fec ha     Fin
                                                                                                                                                                                              Es timated/                                  Of f er                     No Objec ión a                                                                Fir ma     del Total    day s    de         la
Des cription                                                                                                                             Status           Identif ier             Es tado     Real          A mmount in u$s    Bidders     A w                         los TDR                                                                       Contrato      of proc es s        A c tiv idad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           arded
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P.P. - Ex ec uting Unit: 2012-5-SHCP -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHCP Method: 3CV (3CV )
Cons ultoría         para       preparar         y        fac ilitar    los
proc es os     de s elec c ión y               c ontratac ión del
Proy ec to      de       A poy o     a      la       Ges tión           y                                                                Contrato       en RESULTS_-28-3CV -CI-   Dis trito
Pres upues to para Res ultados                                                                                                           Ejec uc ión       UPCP-7                 Federal     Es t.                31,000.00                                           N/A                                                                           21/12/11                        21/06/12
Des arrollo de una Guía Metodológic a para
la   implementac ión             téc nic a           y      f unc ional
de portales                 Web                      de             trans
parenc ia pres upues taria               en          la         f ederac                                                                                   RESULTS_-37-3CV -CI-   Dis trito
ión       y   las
entidades federativ as .                                                                                                                 Prev is to        UPCP-11                Federal     Es t.                40,000.00                                           N/A                                                                           02/04/12                        01/09/12
Des arrollo de c riterios                mínimos requeridos
y         lineamientos              de           trans parenc ia
pres upues taria         para       la    f ederac ión              y   las                                                                                RESULTS_-38-3CV -CI-   Dis trito
entidades federativ as                                                                                                                   Prev is to        UPCP-12                Federal     Es t.                32,000.00                                           N/A                                                                           15/05/12                        15/10/12
Libro de Tes timonios del                   Proy ec to              de Pres
upues to            bas ado en Res ultados                      y   del Sis
tema de Ev aluac ión del                  Des empeño de                                                                                                    RESULTS_-40-3CV -CI-   Dis trito
Méx ic o                                                                                                                                 Prev is to        UPCP-14                Federal     Es t.                49,430.00                                           N/A                                                                           15/05/12                        15/09/12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      26
