 IEG
                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14681

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 03/23/2015

               Country: Mexico
             Project ID: P106528                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Results-based               Project Costs (US$M):              US$31.9M            US$0.37M
                         Management And
                         Budgeting
  L/C Number:            L7622                       Loan/Credit (US$M):               US$17.2M              US$0.37
      Sector Board:      Public Sector               Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Governance
          Cofinanciers:                             Board Approval Date :                                12/15/2008
                                                             Closing Date:           12/31/2013          12/31/2013
         Sector(s):       Central government administration (100%)
         Theme(s):        Managing for development results (50% - P); Public expenditure; financial management and
                          procurement (50% - P)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Bahar Salimova            Clay Wescott           Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The original Project Development Objective was (Legal Agreement, p. 5) to strengthen the Borrower's capacity
    (through its federal departments and agencies) to provide decision makers and the public with rigorous, timely,
    user-friendly information on the efficiency and effectiveness of government organizations and their program
    expenditures. There was an equivalent formulation in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 7).

    The project’s development objectives was revised “to strengthen the Ministry of Finance’s (Secretaría de
    Hacienda y Crédito Público, SHCP) capacity to (i) allow the use of standardized performance information of
    priority public programs during budget preparation; (ii) generate harmonized subnational fiscal information; and
    (iii) disseminate budget performance information to the Borrower's citizens on a regular basis. (Project
    Restructuring Paper, p.13.).

    This Review will undertake a split evaluation using the original objective in the Legal Agreement and the revised
    objective.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 09/22/2012

c. Components:

    Component 1: Design and Implementation of a Management Improvement Program ((Programa de Mejora de la
    Gestión - PMG) (at appraisal US$ 7.6 million; actual US$ 0 million)
   Under this component it was planned that the Bank would provide technical assistance and training for the design
   and implementation of selected management improvement and austerity systems led by SHCP. According to the
   PAD, the Bank was also supposed to provide support for the Technical Group established for each PMG system
   and finance capacity-building for the implementing line departments and agencies.

   This component was never implemented within the project and was cancelled after the project restructuring in
   2012.

   Component 2 : Development of an Integrated Information System for Results -Based Management and
   Budgeting (at appraisal US$ 4 million, of which US$ 1.9 million from the International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development (IBRD) and US$ 2.1 million from the Borrower; actual US$ 0 million). According to the PAD,
   this component was aimed to address issues with the duplication and fragmentation of data use and reporting.
   Within this component, the project was to develop institutional arrangements, procedures and an electronic
   database to consolidate information from different sources, allow the production of easy and user-friendly reports
   and capacity to analyze the data.

   This component was not implemented within the framework of this project in the initial stage, and was cancelled
   after the project restructuring in 2012. Despite the cancellation the progress on this was made by government’s
   own efforts.

   Component 3: Strengthening Financial Information for the Implementation of Results -Based Budgeting ( at
   appraisal US$ 4 million, of which US$ 1.9 million from IBRD and US$ 2 million from the Borrower; actual US$ 0
   million). This component stipulated strengthening the quality and integrity of financial data through technical
   assistance and training. According to the PAD, there were two sub-components a.) supporting the modernization
   of the Public Accounts and the underlying government accounting systems; and b.) assisting in strengthening the
   quality and timeliness of budget execution reporting. (p.10.)

   According to the Project Restructuring Paper this component remained part of the project design after the 2012
   restructuring but its activities focusing on modernizing Government accounting and public accounts as well as
   harmonizing and integrating budget execution reporting were modified.

   Component 4: Consolidation of the Performance Evaluation System and Results -Based Budgeting (at appraisal
   US$ 10.5 million, of which US$ 4 million from IBRD and US$ 6 million from the Borrower; actual US$ 0.87 million,
   of which US$ 0.33 from the IBRD and US$ 0.54 from the Borrower). This component originally had three
   sub-components, including a.) consolidating a government evaluation system, b.) aligning the National System
   for Democratic Planning and c.) implementing results based management approaches at the state level.

   This component was revised after the restructuring and according to the Project Restructuring document a fourth
   component (Support to Fiscal Transparency initiatives) was added to it to include the participatory design and
   implementation of an integrated fiscal transparency web portal and the design of guidelines and regulations to
   foster fiscal transparency in the Borrower’s federal, state and municipal levels of government.”

   Component 5: Institutional Strengthening and Program’s Monitoring and Evaluation (at appraisal US$ 6.2
   million, of which US$ 1.7 million from IBRD and US$ 4.5 million from the Borrower; actual US$ 0 million). The
   activities listed under this component varied between the Legal Agreement and Annex 5 of the PAD. The Legal
   Agreement describes activities as providing technical assistance and training to the Ministry of Public
   Administration (SFP) and SHCP to develop the necessary organizational and evaluation capacity to monitor the
   progress and to evaluate the implementation of the Borrower's Sistema de Evaluation del Desempeho and
   related institutional reforms. The PAD listed activities related to development of baseline data and targets and
   carrying out evaluations, including mid-term self-evaluations (

   According to the Project Restructuring Paper, this component was revised to cancel activities originally to be
   implemented by SFP but maintained self-evaluation activities to be implemented within the project (p18).

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Costs at appraisal were US$ 31.9 million, including US$ 14.7 million from the Borrower and US$ 17.2
   million from IBRD. The project costs were revised in 2012 to be US$ 6.7 million in total, with US$ 2.2 from the
   Borrower and US$ 4.4 million from IBRD.

   Financing: Actual disbursement on this project was US$ 0.37 million. The project was to be financed by an IBRD
   loan to the SHCP, which became the sole implementer of the program instead of originally planned joint
   participation of the SFP.
   Borrower Contribution was estimated at US$ 14.7 million at appraisal and at $2.2 after restructuring. The
   Borrower spent much less than anticipated within the framework of this project, but it spent more through the
   national budget and other funds.. No information was available how much was spent by the government outside
   the project that contributed the overall government’s program on results-based management and budgeting.
   Dates: The project was approved on December 11, 2008, and became effective only on March 19, 2010. The
   project closed on schedule on December 31, 2013.



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   The relevance of the original and revised objective : High
   Despite economic and democratic reforms that took place during the 1980s and 1990s in Mexico, public
   management reform lagged behind. As the next step toward improved public service delivery and effective
   resource allocation, the Government of Mexico was focused on fiscal and public expenditure reforms. The
   Government’s results-based budgeting initiative was anchored in a new legal framework, establishing the
   Performance Evaluation System which aimed to provide two kinds of data on the performance of publicly
   financed programs and organizations as inputs to the budget cycle: (i)consolidated data from program
   evaluations or other sources on the outputs and impact/effectiveness of public expenditures; and (ii) data on the
   quality of public management, which is the focus of a new PMG implemented between 2008-2012. The project
   objective was consistent with the 2008-2013 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico and the National
   Development Plan. (p.1.) Additionally, the project's objectives are also supported by the current 2014-2019 CPS
   objectives of enhancing service delivery through better public sector management under the overall theme on
   Strengthening Public Finances and Government Efficiency.

   The revised project objectives were aligned with the current 2014-2019 CPS and Mexico’s 2013-2018 National
   Development Plan.


b. Relevance of Design:


   Relevance of the original and revised design : Modest.

   The original design did not present a strong results framework that properly accounted for the intermediate
   outcomes and causal chain between inputs, outputs and outcomes. As such, the results framework did not
   sufficiently account for knowledge transfer and capacity building in intermediate results that needed to take place
   before any changes are implemented in program and strategy design. There is no mention of capacity building
   results in component one, which aimed to design and implement PMG. The ICR also mentioned that intermediate
   results outlined in the PAD were largely qualitative in nature.

   Although the restructured project improved the design by leaving SHCP as a sole implementing agency and
   reducing its scope from five components to three, the approach was still too ambitious in what the project could
   achieve before the end date, which was not revised from the originally stipulated one.

   Given the fact that the Mexican government was mostly interested in knowledge transfer and technical
   assistance rather than financial assistance, it may have been more appropriate to have a Reimbursable Advisory
   Services which is also noted in ICR.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The review will assess first the original objective, and then the revised objective.

   The original objective was to: “strengthen the Borrower's capacity (through its federal departments and agencies)
   to provide decision makers and the public with rigorous, timely, user-friendly information on the efficiency and
   effectiveness of government organizations and their program expenditures.”
The PAD specifies the following outcome indicators

     Performance information presented : (i) in budget requests from line secretariats to SHCP; and (ii) in budget
      submitted to Congress
     Satisfaction of Congress and civil society organizations with the performance information made available via
      government websites (as measured through user surveys)
     Percent of programs with improved strategic design and reporting
     Progression of organizations through the steps established for each PMG system, marking increased levels
      of administrative capacity and efficiency.

Before restructuring, none of the targets linked with these indicators were achieved within the project framework
due to the implementation delays. Although the interview with the project team reiterated that this project was
instrumental in supporting an important government program through tacit knowledge transfer, the project did not
disburse any amount of the loan prior to restructuring and the government was able to use its own resources to
make advances in results based budgeting and performance evaluation, accounting harmonization and fiscal
transparency. Since efficacy accounts for achievements attributable to the activities and actions supported by
the operation, the efficacy of the original objective is rated Negligible .


The revised project objective was to strengthen the Ministry of Finance’s capacity to (i) allow the use of
standardized performance information of priority public programs during budget preparation; (ii) generate
harmonized subnational fiscal information; and (iii) disseminate budget performance information to the
Borrower's citizens on a regular basis. For the purposes of rating efficacy of the revised objective each
sub-objective will be assessed separately.

I. Allow the use of standardized performance information of priority public programs during budget
preparation:
PDO-level indicator: Performance information using a performance framework is generated and used
during budget request discussions between line secretariats and SHCP.

The ICR reports that through government’s own efforts it has successfully advanced the design and introduction
of specific guidelines and instruments to gradually adopt a results and performance orientation in the Federal
Government’s budgeting process. The government adopted instruments that required inclusion of results and
performance dimensions in the resource allocation procedures. However, the project funding did not support any
of these activities.

PDO-level indicator: Percent of public programs with improved strategic design and reporting

The ICR reports that 832 programs out of 964 have a more robust design across key dimensions
(objectives, indicators, baselines, links to strategies) enabling better reporting and evaluation. Additionally, the
project conducted a series of training events in its last year of implementation that aimed to enhance government
capacity and helped developed methodology guides and manuals. However, as noted in the ICR the project was
not able to conduct the number of training events it set out to do after restructuring due to limited capacity of the
implementing agency to utilize the loan and contract the activities. Although these improvements took place, they
were primarily done by the government’s own efforts and program and not through project funding.

Additionally, only one of the 5 relevant intermediate outcome indicators was marked in ICR as partially achieved ,
while others were noted as not achieved.

This sub-objective is rated Modest .

II.   Generate harmonized subnational fiscal information –

PDO-Level indicator: Percent of municipalities that have a simplified financial management system installed and
working.
According to the revised sub-component 4 c. Under the revised design, the project aimed to implement results
based management approaches at the state level. The ICR states that this sub-objective was not achieved
because of the government’s shift of priorities toward the development of the Government Accounting system.
This sub-objective is rated Negligible .

III. Disseminate budget performance information to the Borrower’s citizens on a regular basis – Negligble

PDO-level indicator: An active network and a portal to inform civil society at large on a regular basis
    about budget performance increasing transparency and accountability to citizens.
    The Budget Transparency Portal which was launched by SHCP in 2011 without project funding. The portal hosts
    performance information of budget programs and public financial information. The roll-out and achievements of
    this portable is not directly attributable to the project activities as ICR only mentions that $40, 000 of project
    financing was spent to develop a methodological guide for the technical and functional implementation of the
    transparency web portal at the federal and subnational levels (p.21) as the evidence of project's support to the
    development and launch of the portal.

    Furthermore, the operationalization of the portal is yet to be seen. According to the ICR (p.13) the new portal was
    supposed to be launched in June 2014. The supply of information to this portal also will highly depend on the
    capacity of government agencies and units participating in the initiative.

    This sub-objective is rated as Negligible .



5. Efficiency:

    At appraisal, no cost-benefit analysis was not carried out to assess the impact of these institutional reforms.
    Thus, it is challenging to measure the impact of intangible contributions and there are issues with attribution. The
    ICR further notes (p.14) that given the loan amount disbursed (US $373, 684, 1% of the total commitment)
    vis-à-vis the time-overrun in implementation and the cost for preparation and provision of implementation support
    (US $967,977) the project failed to be efficient. Lastly, restructuring of this project took a long time and was done
    near the end of the project, which meant that the World Bank was inefficiently holding back a large amount of
    money tied to this project.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    The project objectives were highly relevant before and after restructuring, but the design was modestly relevant
    before and after restructuring due to the quality of the results chain and quality an entry. Efficacy is rated
    Negligible before restructuring because no results were achieved within the project framework despite
    government’s own progress. After restructuring, efficacy is rated for three sub-objectives as following:
    Sub-Objective I - Modest; Sub-Objective II - Negligible, and Sub-Objective III- Negligible. Efficiency is rated
    Negligible both before and after restructuring..

    Based on these factors, IEG rates outcome before and after restructuring as Unsatisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    There were limited number of activities directly supported by the project, and little was achieved under the
    project. Hence the risk to the development outcome is rated negligible to low.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:
a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank has supported evaluation capacity building in Mexico since the early 2000s, and the present
   reforms have built on this foundation of experience. The project was designed to contribute to a large policy
   reform to begin to monitor Mexico’s public expenditures against results. The project also set out to work with
   two counterparts SHCP and SFP. The Project Team stressed how much knowledge transfer and capacity
   building was carried out during the project design stages when the Bank helped convene an international
   conference on results based budgeting which kick-started the discussions about the reforms.

   However, the project design did not adequately consider details of how this large-scale reform process would
   be implemented, particularly the collaboration that would be required between the two implementing
   agencies. The project also did not adequately assess both the capacity of the implementing agencies and of
   the country team implementing the project. Overall, the project design was too complex and overly relied on
   the assumption that various line-ministries and agencies would collaborate and work together toward a unified
   data and accounting systems.




  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank did not react in a timely manner to the rapid changes both in the country’s reform agenda and
   political turnover to get the project off the ground in time. This led to significant time delays and cancellation
   of major components of the project. Despite the delays in the project implementation, the supervision
   missions kept rating the development objectives of the project as Moderately Satisfactory from late 2009 to
   early 2013.

   The ICR notes that the World Bank and IADB did not coordinate in their efforts to support the budgeting
   reforms in Mexico. The PAD specifically mentioned that the Bank would continue coordination with the IADB
   that started with collaboration for a workshop for mid-level management on results-based management. The
   team acknowledged that the Bank should have pushed more for collaboration, but it was not sure whether it
   would have happened and changed anything for the project.

   Furthermore, the ICR notes that the project suffered from a high turnover of project TTLs which left the project
   without consistent leadership and hindered the implementation in the early stages. Although the project was
   eventually restructured in 2012, it was too late to turn it around and adequately reflect the evolving reforms
   and political agenda in the country. The ICR further notes that there were indications that communications
   between the Bank team, fiduciary teams, financial agent and implementing agencies could have been better
   to improve project implementation support and administrative processes.




  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Government’s commitment to public sector reform has been strong despite the fact that the project was not
   implemented in its full scope and capacity. The government wanted the budget to become more strategic, and
   to calibrate monitoring and evaluation so they would provide technical input to the budget discussion, which
   had previously been mainly based on political considerations. This has been achieved in the last two budget
   cycles.
   The government used its own funds to undertake major reforms leading to budget transparency and
   results-based budgeting. For instance, the ICR mentions that reforms led by the Secretary of Expenditure
   (SE) has successfully advanced the design and introduction of specific guidelines and instruments for the
   adoption of the results and performance orientation in the Federal Government’s budgeting process. The SE
   also launched a fiscal transparency portal that provides access to detailed information on the allocation and
   use of federal government’s resources. Despite this strong commitment, the government overestimated the
   capacity of its implementing agencies and did not realize the amount of coordination it will require to
   implement the project.

   The government decided to partner with the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) on Results Based
   Management while the Bank worked on a similar project focusing on results based budgeting. These two
   reform areas were not well aligned. The Government did not facilitate enough coordination between the Bank
   and the IADB.




  Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Initially the project design included two implementing agencies – SFP and SHCP, but after the project
   restructuring the project scope was narrowed down and SHCP became the sole implementer, dropping the
   (SFP).

   SHCP failed to coordinate its efforts within the framework of this project with SFP, and did not have adequate
   capacity to administer the contracts. SHCP also did not know well the Bank’s procurement rules, and had
   difficulties to use the loan to support activities within the framework of the project. The ICR notes that
   significant delays after restructuring were due to the complicated procurement processes and capacity
   constraints within the implementing agency. During the interview, the project team also mentioned that high
   staff turnover in SFP contributed to the implementation delays that were witnessed in the first phase of the
   project.




  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The enhanced accountability of SHCP’s Undersecretary of Expenditures (Subsecretaría de Egresos) was
   supposed to be measured through an increased satisfaction with central government services and its meeting
   their service charter commitments. However, the indicators poorly captured enhanced accountability, and even
   within their limited scope, were difficult to measure. No target values were identified for the time period between
   the beginning and ending of the project, which made monitoring a challenge and perhaps more susceptible to
   optimistic assessments as evidenced by the Moderately Satisfactory ratings for PDO achievement throughout the
   life of the project except for the last Implementation Status Report. The ICR notes that it would have been better
   if the project had mid-course target values which would have been meaningful to assess the PDO and do
   mid-course corrections. For example, component 4 of the original results framework included an intermediate
   result aiming to strengthen government capacity to contract and administer rigorous program evaluations, but
   there were no relevant intermediate results indicators linked to this.

b. M&E Implementation:

    As stated in the ICR, there were no beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops conducted under this project to
    review its performance. The Project Team clarified that there was a stakeholder analysis conducted during the
    project’s design stage, which is also reflected in the PAD (p.20). The Team also clarified that the intended impact
    evaluation for this project was not carried out since the government didn’t support spending additional resources
    on it.

c. M&E Utilization:

    The ICR mentioned that the implementing agencies’ progress reports were delivered and used by the supervision
    teams. The ICR does not provide extensive information as to how M&E data was utilized for this project and by
    the implementing agencies. The Project Team clarified that they received a final report from the government on
    project results, but no beneficiary or other types of surveys was utilized to measure the impact. At the same time,
    the team added that the government itself conducted several evaluations and assessments of its reform efforts
    which are now publicly available on the new budget portal. This is also reflected in the ICR which mentioned that
    in situ monitoring effort is done in each ministry through their planning units instead of by SHCP.


M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    No safeguards were triggered under this project. ICR does not mention them a well.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    There were no significant fiduciary issues during the project’s implementation that could be identified through the
    documents reviewed by IEG.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Unsatisfactory      Negligible efficiency, modest design
                               Unsatisfactory                                   and below the line ratings of efficacy
                                                                                both before and after restructuring, the
                                                                                overall outcome of this project is rated
                                                                                as unsatisfactory.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Unsatisfactory      Significant shortcomings at entry and
                              Unsatisfactory                                    major shortcomings at supervision.

       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Some of the lessons derived by IEG based on the review of the ICR include:

         The Bank needs to carefully assess the choice of instruments in middle-income countries, which may not
          need financial support as much as the Bank's technical expertise.

         The Bank needs to learn from its experience in middle-income countries with more sophisticated demands
          for expertise and technical assistance and use this experience to inform its operations in other countries in
          the region. As mentioned by the project team, the Mexican experience is more likely to be seen as
          relevant by regional countries than experiences from more developed OECD countries like Canada or
          Switzerland.

         Project design needs to align and adopt with institutional capacity, particularly when there is a massive
          reform process at stake that involves multiple government agencies and donors. There is also need for
          better assessments of needs and risks associated with complex reform projects and projects involving
          multiple implementing agencies.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides a detailed account of the project components and restructuring process and provides an honest
    account of implementation delay. However, the ICR does not provide a clear distinction between what has been
    achieved due to direct project support vis-a-vis the results achieved due to the Borrower’s own activities to
    improve the public financial management reform. Additionally, some information used in the implementation
    section of the ICR is directly derived from the official Project Restructuring document from 2012 (pp. 5-7) without
    further analysis.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
