Document of
The World Bank
FOR oMcIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  10786
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1151-NIR)
JUNE 26, 1992                     6
4,X
Population and Human Resources Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
CPP          Country Program Paper
EAATEN       Animal Production Technician School (Ecole des Assistants et Agents Techniques de
l'Elevage)
ECE          Animal Production Training School (Ecole des Cadres de l'Elevage)
EDF          European Development Fund
FA           Faculty of Agriculture, University of Niamey
FAC          French Ministry of Cooperation (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation)
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
ILO          International Labor Organization
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INRAN        National Institute for Agricultural Research (Institut National de Recherches Agricoles
au Niger)
IPDR         Rural Development Training Institute (Institut Pratique de D6veloppement Rural)
MCSL         Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor
MNE          Ministry of National Education
MRD          Ministry of Rural Development
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID        United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operauono Evaluatiofn
June 26, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Niger First Education
Proiect (Credit 1151-NIR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion, Report on Niger First Educ.tion Project (Credit 1151-NIR)" prepared
by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Yves Rovani
by H. Eberhard Kbpp
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETfON REPORT
NIGER
EIRSI EDUCATION E&Q=^T
(Credit 111S-NIR)
Table of Contents
Pagg-no,
Preface ............                                                                           i
Evaluation Summary ............ iii
NIJ    PROJECT REVIEW FROM ]DA'S PERSPECTIVE  . .
A. Project Identity .1
B. Background.                                                                  1
C.  Project Objectives and Components.                                          2
D.  Project Design and Organization .4
E.    Project Implementation, Supervision and Risks.                            5
F.  Project Results .......                                                     9
G.    Project Sustainability .................................
H. IDA Performance .11
I.  Borrower Performance .12
J.  Project Relationships .13
K. Consulting Services .13
L.  Project Documentation and Data .14
Part     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTME ..15
A. Introduction .15
B.  Presentation of the Project .15
C.    Project Results ..     .     .          .........   ......... :17
D.    Comments on Project Design and Implementation.                           19
E.    Conclusions of the Nigerien Authorities .                                21
Uim  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ..23
Table 1:      Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits .23
Table 2:  Project Timetable .23
Table 3:      Time Line of Planned and Actual Disbursements .24
Table 4:   Project implementation .24
Table 5:   Project Costs and Finmcing .25
Table 6:  Project Results .27
Table 7:   Compliance with Covenants .28
Table 8:      Staff Inputs and Mission Data by Stages of Project .29
a
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfiormance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1151-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Education Project in Niger,
for which Credit 1151-NIR was approved on May 26, 1981, in the amount of SDR 17.3
million (US$21.5 million equivalent in 1981). The credit was closed on June 30, 1990, two
and one half years behind schedule. It was disbursed up to the amount of SDR 14.95 million
(US$16.65 million equivalent in 1990), with the final disbursements in December 1990. The
undisbursed amount of SDR 2.35 million (US$3.43 mil.ion equivalent in 1990) was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division of the
Sahelian Department of the Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and HI),
and the Borrower (Part II). Minor editorial and formatting adjustments have been made to
Part H in order to ensure conformity with publication standards.
Preparation of this PCR was carried out at headquarters and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement, files
of IDA relating to the project, and interviews of present and former IDA staff involved in
project design and project restructuring. A completion mission was not undertaken for this
project.



- 111 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1151-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
9b3ecives
1.           One objective of this project (92% of base costs) was to improve the quality and expand
the output of middle-level technicians and extension workers in agriculture and animal production. To
achieve this, the project provided for: (i) completion of the final phase of the expansion and upgrading
of the existing Rural Development Training Institute (IPDR) at Kolo (40 km from Niamey) - increasing
annual enrollment from 200 to 450, and annual output from 65 to 150; and (ii) construction and
equipment of a new Animal Production Training School (ECE) at Kolo - relocating the animal
production training from an existing school in Niamey to Kolo, and increasing annual enrollment in such
training from 100 to 200, and annual output from 30 to 75.
2.           The project also had two other objectives, namely: (i) to improve educational planning
and prepare future education projects; and (ii) to formulate policies and programs for upgrading key civil
service personnel, in both cases mainly through provision of technical assistance and training.
ImLlermentation Experiencw
3.           The physical implementation of the main component was well managed and completed
ahead of schedule. The schools began operating in their new facilities in early 1985. However, because
of severe recurrent financial constraints, in the context of the policy of automatic recruitment of all
trainees for public sector employment, the Government began, in 1986, to reduce enrollment in line with
its financial inability to recruit graduates at the scale foreseen at appraisal. In 1987-88, the two schools
(IPDR and ECE) used only about 50% of their capacity.
4.           To address this problem, IDA staff advised the Government to: (i) reduce training
capacity at the two instituions to better reflect actual enrollment and effective demand for graduates;
(ii) introduce less specialized pre-employment training programs to increase graduates' employability and
gain economies of scale through provision of some joint courses for agriculture and livestock trainees;
and (iii) develop in-service training programs for existing staff. Together, these three recommendations
led to a fourth, i.e., to merge the two schools and free excess capacity for other uses.
5.           Following a period of study and consensus-building during 1987-1988, agreement was
reached on the modalities for implementing the above recommendations, which began in October 1988
when first-year students for both agriculture and livestock training enrolled in a common core course.
The two schools were formally merged in March 1989 when the ECE facilities (created under the project
at a cost of US$10.5 million) were transferred to the National Institute for Agricultural Research
(INRAN), replacing an investment of similar magnitude planned under a new Agricultural Research
Project.



- iv -
Results and Sustainability
6.           The guantitative objectives for agriculture and livestock training as defined at appraisal
(650 students and 225 graduates) could not be attained due to the changed economic circumstances.
However, the reduced capacity resulting from the restructuring (about 150 students and 150 graduates)
should be more sustainable after project completion in terms of both meeting effective demand for
graduates and the Government's ability to finance operating costs (reduction in total recurrent budget of
about 35%).
7.           As regards quality and relevance, the less specialized training programs resulting from
the restructuring made graduates better tquipped for both public and private sector employment. In turn,
the opening towards the private sector increased the scope for cost recovery - enrollment of fee-paying
private students increased from two in 1986 to 38 in 1989. Finally, the provision of in-service training
programs made it possible to use available capacity to up-grade qualifications of existing extension service
staff.
8.           Despite implementation delays, the resources provided for expert services in educational
planning as well as for construction of sixty classrooms to develop low-cost school construction
techniques under the education planning and preparation of new projects component were key to the
preparation of the Second Education Project (Primary Education Development, Cr. 1740-NIR). The
component designed to develop policies on civil service reforms was implemented with considerable delay
and did not have the desired impact. However, in retrospect, it was probably unrealistic to expect such
a small component (six months of specialist services) included in an agricultural training project to play
a major role in this regard.
Lessons Learned
9.           During the 1980s, the focus of IDA lending for education and training shifted from
specific investment operations designed to create new education and training capacities, to a more global
approach focussing on the development and implementation of sector policies and strategies. However,
because thorough supervision of policy and other "software" components is resource and skill intensive,
IDA supervision has tended to remain in the hardware mode. The implementation of this specific
investment project illustrates two important lessons in this regard.
10.          First, supervision of any lending operation designed to establish or strengthen institutional
capacity needs to focus on the long-term impact and sustainability of the capacity created, rather than
more narrowly on attainment of physical targets defined at appraisal. The present credit could have been
closed ahead of schedule if the question of sustainability following project completion had not been raised.
The exterc on of the closing date allowed IDA to assist the Government, technically and financially, in
developing and implementing a more cost-effective organizational structure, as well as training programs
that were both more cost-effective and better responsive to labor market demands. A long-term
perspective is particularly important widh a self-contained capacity-building project of the present type,
where a follow-up project may be unlikely, and success and sustainability can only be demonstrated in
the long term.
11.          Second, restructuring or down-scaling of education institutions is often very sensitive.
To be successful, such reforms require extensive consensus-building among the various groups affected
at the national level. In the present case, the agreement on restructuring measures was reached through
the use of three consecutive national study teams, supported by short-term external consultants. This was
a time-consuming process, requiring almost two years; however, it was greatly facilitated by staff
continuity on both the Government's side (mainly the Project Director) as well as IDA's, and by IDA's
use of a high-level consultant whose credibility with the Government had been established through his
previous work in Niger.



PORO.ET COMP-LEI:N RP2
NIGER
FIRST ElUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1151-NIR)
PART I: PRO.ECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name:                 First Education Project
Credit No.:                   1151-NIR
RVP Unit:                     Africa Region
Country:                      Niger
Sector:                       Human Resources
Subsector:                    Education and Agricultural Training
B.   Bakwond
1.             Sector Develom :ent Objectives. The First Education Project, approved in 1981, served
as a vehicle for opening up an effective dialogue between IDA and the Ministry of National Education
(MNE) on formal education and training. Development of such a dialogue had been difficult from the
early 1970s, following IDA's decision to not support a requiest from the Government for financing
educational television. The project was limited in scope, having been designed primarily to address
training needs in the agricultural and livestock sectors.
2.             Economic and Policy Context. Niger experienced considerable economic difficulties
during a prolonged drought in the early 1970s, with GDP declining 0.5% per year. In the late 1970s,
favorable weather conditions led to rapid recovery in the agriculture and livestock sectors. During the
same period, Niger experienced an economic boom due to the high price and high volume of uranium
exports, resulting in GDP growth of 7% ner year. In the early 1980s, however, the world price of
uranium fell precipitously, and a long-lasting crisis in the uranium sector began. In 1980, about 85%
of the population earned its livelihood in the rural sector, with agriculture and animal production
generating about 46% of GNP. Livestock was the only major export other than uranium, with the two
commodities making up 14% and 76% of exports, respectively. Agricultural performance was mediocre,
however, in the early 1980s, and budget deficits and the debt burden were mounting in the national
economy. I/
From 1983 to 1990, a period roughly coinciding with the implementation period of the First Education Project, Niger
implementzd adjustment programs supported by the IMP, IDA, and other multilateral and bilateral donors. These adjustment
effonts were hindered in 1983-84 by a lengthy drought which led to an average decline in GDP of 99% per year; however, during
the period 1985-88, Niger's economic and financial situation improved, with GDP rising 4.4% per year. The structural
adjustment program which Niger began in 1986 sought to increase the efficiency of resource use and strengthen the country's
resource base, as well as to improve Niger's balance of payments and public finance position. This program was supported
under IDA's SAL 1, which focused, inter alia, on agricultural policy. The Government also prepared a medium-term Poliey
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1989-91 consistent with the macroeconomic framework and available financial resources. Nigerien



2
3.             Linkages Between Project. Secto' and Macro Policy Objectives.  Since the projext
financed primarily training for agricultural technicians and livestock production specialists, its objectives
were defined in the context of both the education and agticulture sectoral objectives, as well as Niger's
macroeconomic objectives. By the early 1980s, the need for major emphasis on the development of
agriculture and human resources had been identified as essential to promoting medium and long-term
economic development in Niger. Lack of trained manpower had been a major constraint to successful
implementation of agricultural, animal production, and rural development projects during the last half of
Ie 1970s. Key sector studies used as background for preparation of this project included a detailed study
on agricultural training carried out by IDA in the late 1970s, an education sector study carried out by
UNESCO in 1979, and a 1980 ILO study on employment and training.
4.             The Government's Five-Year Development Plan (1979-1983) placed increased emphasis
on training needs for agriculture and animal produe.tion. In 1982, at a national conference on education
and training, the Government emphasized training of skilled workers and technicians, and encouraged
privately-financed schocling. IDA's 1983 Education Sector Memorandum also called for the Government
to seek to maximize employer-sponsored training; and human resource development had already been
recognized in the 1982 Country Program Paper (CPP) as the fundamental constraint to Niger's overall
development. However, it had become evident by that time that the declining state of the Nigerien
economy would prevent full implementation of the Five-Year Plan's edauation and training program. In
1986, the Government's education sector strategy paper emphasized more efficient use of existing sectoral
resources, in light of ~tdgetary constraints. 2/ Although during the 1980s the Government allocated
about 20% of its budget to education and training - above the average of 15% for Sub-Saharan Africa -
- by the end of the decade, Niger still ranked among the five countrie, with the lowest educational
attaiment levels in the world, with an adult literacy rate of 14% and a geo,. primary school enrollment
rate of only 29%.
C.    Project Obiectives and Components
5.             The obietives o-fthe project were to assist the Government in: (i) improving educational
planning and preparing future education projects; (ii) formulating policies and programs for upgrading
key civil service personnel; and (iii) upgrading the quality and expanding the output of middle-level
technicians and extension workers in agriculture and animal production. The project comonents
comprised the following:
(a)    Educational Planning and Project Preparation:  Specialist services, fellowships, and
equipment to assist the Ministry of National Education (MNE) in educational planning,
project preparation, and school mapping.
export proceeds from umnium foll 25% during th, period 1984-89, although uranium still accounted for 75% of total export
proceeds in 1990. The trend of a decreasing price together with a constant volume of uranium exports was partiaUy offset by
increases in agricultural and livestock exports.
2 Similar conclusions were also drawn in Niger's 1990 PFP, i.e., that in view of the unfavorable prospects for the
uranium sector, Niger's economic growth strategy should focus on intensifying and diversifying agricultural production, including
promotion of the private sector and placing emphasis on institution building. To help achieve efficient employmient of skilled
workers in the economy, Niger's current education policy (1990) calls for facilitating labor market entry for graduates of
professional and technical sebools; and the recently approved PFP includes a provision to abolish the Oovernment's policy of
automatic recruitment of university graduates.



3
(b)    Public Administration and Labor: Specialist services to help the Ministry of the Civil
Service and Labor (MCSL) to establish a training directordte, review the need.- for
upgrading civil service personnel, formulate and implement pilot upgrading programs,
and prepare profess'onal training and upgrading projects.
(c)    Ag"ricultural Technigian Training: Construction, furniture, equipment, vehicles, and
initial operating costs for the development of the school farm, for the final phase of
expansion and upgrading of the existing Rural Development Training Institute (IPDR) in
Kolo; and specialisb services and fellowships to upgrade IPDR's teaching staff and to
reorient and upgrade IPDR's carriculum.
(d)    Animal Production Technician Training: Construction, furniture, equipment, vehicles,
and initial operating costs for the development of a school farm, for a new Animal
Production Training School (ECE) to be located in Kolo; and specialist services and
fellowships for the development of the ECE's curricula and for on-the-job training for
ECE staff.
(e)    Proiect Management: Specialist services, fuirniture, equipment, and operating costs for
project management.
6.           The appraisal mission recognized the uncertainty inherent in projecting requirements for
agricultural technicians and extension agents. Therefore, the targets for training such personnel were set
at about 70% of the projected needs over a ten-year period (1975-84). This projected demand exceeded
the training capacity of the IPDR which, established in 1933, had gradually expanded and enrolled about
200 students at the time of project appraisal. To meet this increased demand, the project aimed at
increasing capacity to 450 trainees, and annual output to about 150, comprising 100 extension ageilts and
50 technicians. The entry requirement for both programs was completion of first cycle secondary
education (ten years of schooling). The duration of the training program for extension agents was two
years, and for technicians four years.
7.           IDA support to IPDR was part of an ongoing multi-donor effort. Numerous bilateral and
multilateral donors had been active in agricultural training in Niger, with IPDR having received support,
beginning in 1977, from the Netherlands, Belgium, Canada, and Germany, as well as from UNDP, FAO,
EDF, USAID, and FAC. The FAO-financed chief technical advisor helped coordinate the various donor
inputs. Although most donor components were scheduled for completion by 1981 - i.e., before IDA
financing was scheduled to start, the majority were extended, and major support from other donors
continued until at least 1988.
8.           The Government - with the assistance of UNDP and FAO - estimated requirements for
middle-lev4 manpower in the livestock sectot at 75, comprising 25 technicians and 50 extension agents,
compared to a total annual output of 30 from the then existing animal production technician school in
Niamey (EAATEN). Therefore, to produce the required annual output it was determined under the
project to increase the enrollment capacity from about 100 at EAATEN (cf. para. 13) to 200-240 trainees
at the new ECE. Entry requirements and duration of programs were the same as for IPDR. As the
estimated requirements for animal production staff were considered to be more solid than those for
agricultural personnel, the new school was designed to meet 100% of the estimated needs rather than
70%, as in the case of IPDR.
9.           The above targets for IPDR and ECE were to be achieved not only through expanded
infrastructure, but also by revising the IM  of training offered (phasing out training for assistant



4
technicians, and introducing separate programs for extension agents and for technicians); improving the
gqality of instruction (;'ncluding creation of a unit to produce instructional materials); and in.reaming the
relgyanc of training by strengthening the field study program. Separate, specialized pr3grams were
designed for the two schools as of the first year of study. and there was no effort to contain unit costs
through provision of common courses for subjects to be provided for both agricultuiral and livestock
specialists. This high degree of specialization as of the first year of the study was one reason wiiy the
training programs for these two types of specialists were provided by two institutions rather than one.
10.          Although the overall objectives of the project remained unchanged throughout project
implementation, some p.oject components and specific targets were revised during a restructuring which
took place in 1987-88. This restructuring is described ini detail in Section E of this report (Project
Implementation, Supervision and Risks - paras. 17-19).
D.    Project Design and Organization
11.          The project objectives of improving educational planning and preparation of future
education projects, and formulating policies and program for upgrading key civil service personnel were
important in terms of their potential long-term implications, although the volume of project financing
allocated to these objectives was small (2.2% and 0.2%, respectiWly) compareo 't that allocated to
training middle-level technicians and extension workers in agriculture and animal production (92%). The
main objective of the education planning component was to help the Government to translate the general
h16Man resources development objectives of its Five-Year Development Plan (1979-83) into well-prepared
programs and projects which could be supported through both local and foreign financing.
12.          As explained in paras. 6-8, the design of the agricultural and animal production training
components was based on projections of the demand for agricultural technicians and livestock production
specialists in the Nigerien economy. In a small country such as Niger, where the numbers of trainees
were small, and where all graduates were expected to work for the Government, surveys, tracer studies,
and interviews with appropriate officials could give fairly accurate assessments of effective demand for
trained manpower of this type, unless major eronomic changes occurred in the country, resulting in a
change in the Government's capacity to recruit graduates. Given the economic importance of the
agriculture sector and the Governiment's high priority for this sector, coupled with the substantial
Government revenues from uranium exports during the period of projct design, the ninancial ability of
the Government to recruit graduates from the two schools was not considered a serious issue.
13.          The animal production technician training component was designed to replace the existing
Animal Production Technician School (EAATEN) in Niamey (para. 8) with a livestock training school
(ECE), which would be newly constructed in Kolo - 40 km outside of Niamey - where the IPDR was
alread, located. EAATEN - which began operating in 1971 - had been created with assistance from
th, e oropean Development Fund (EDF). The school trained about 30 assistant technicians and extension
agents annually, but did not train fully qualified technicians. This component was proposed by the
Government in January 1979, and prepared by UNDP and FAO. Although IDA was initially unsure
about the ECE proposal, the appraisal mission was postponed in order to incorporate this component, and
the design of the ECE component was finalized during the post-appraisal mission in March 1980.
14.          A consultant to FAO who visited Niger in May/June 1981, when the proposed Credit had
been approved by IDA but not yet signed by the Government, reported to FAO that the proposed transfer
of the livestock training school to Kolo was inadvisable because, with such a move, ECE would: (a) cost
US$10.5 million to construct compared to US$3.5 million to expand EAATEN in Niamey; (b) be less
accessible to part-time teachers and incur high transport costs for these teachers; and (c) be further away



from slaughterhouses and other livestock industries than EAATEN, thus leading to higher trausport costs
for students uiidertaking practical training. When this report was brought to the attention of IDA, IDA
decided to note its content but take no action, largely since the FAO consultant had worked almost
exclusively with the EAATEN Principal, who was the main Nigerien proponent for the school to remain
in Niamey, and whose views diverged from those of his predecessors and the Government's position.
In July 1981, EDF informed IDA that the EAATEN remained in very good condition and could be easily
re-equipped, reinforced and expanded in accordance with training needs, requested information on the
linkage foreseen by IDA between the EAATEN and the proposed ECE, and offered EDF participation
with IDA and the Government in studying how to make optimal use of existing equipment and available
financing.
15.          Following the two communications mentioned above, IDA staff still felt that leaving the
livestock training programs in Niamey would be undesirable, when an opportunity was available to move
them to new and improved facilities in Kolo, closet to the rurAl milieu and away from the urban setting
of Niamey. The physical proximity of the new ECE to IPDR and to an agricultural research station run
by the National Institute for Agricultural Researe!i a(INRAN) was al3o considered advantageous. For these
reasons, IDA felt that the new location wovQ! be more conducive to s!und trainhig. Construction of new
and separate facilities for training of livestock specialists was deemed appropriate, partly because IPDR
was not large enough in 1980 to absorb the projected number of livestock trainees. Furthermore, as
ind!cated in para. 9, the specialized training programs provided by the two institutions offered little scope
for cost savings through provision of common co-..rses for several specializations.
E.    Project Implementation, Supervision and Risks
16.          Proiect Implementation. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was placed in ;ile
Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) given the project emphasis on training of agricultural and animal
production technicians. The, MNE and MCSL were involved in implementation of the project components
which addressed issues of capacity building.
17.          Implementation of the hardware component - 83% of total project financing was for civil
works and equipment for the IPDR and ECE - progressed ahead of schedule, and the two schools began
using the new facilities in 1985. However, the schools operated at full capacity for only one year, and
enrollment decreased in 1986 - at which time IDA supervision staff began to perceive the need to adjust
the training capacities of the two scnools with respect to the number of graduates and the profile of
training programs, in order to better respond to effective demand. In 1987-88, capacity utilization fell
to below 50%. This severe underutilization of training capacity (a development which paralleled that of
many other countries in the Region having established similar training facilities during the 1960s and
1970s) was attributable primarily to the marked deterioration of economic conditions in the mid-1980s
which led to severe budgetary constraints for the Government and, subsequently, to reduced hiring ior
public employment in the agriculture and livestock sectors. Given its policy of guaranteeing public sector
employment to all graduates, the Government was obliged to scale down enrollment in line with its
financial ability to recruit.
18.          Because of these developments, two alternatives were considered. The first was to bring
project implementation to a close, given that the objectives pertaining to increasing the training capacity
in agriculture and livestock had been achieved and that only the very minor project element related to the
Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor remained incomplete (para. 5). However, while project
objectives as defined at appraisal had been achieved, this would imply leaving it to the Government to
adapt the schools to the changes in economic circumstances since appraisal. The second alternative was
to continue to provide support (e.g., financing of studies to define restructuring options, and possible



6
investments to implement the option selected) to help the schools adjust to the new demand level and
profile, and ensure that the training capacity established would continue to be viable and sustainable
following project completion. The level of uncommitted credit proceeds (US$6 million) provided the
needed headroom and credibility for the implementation of this second option.3 IDA, UNDP, and the
Government agreed on this option, and the latter - assisted by IDA and UNDP - spent most of 1987 '38
developing a national consensus and action plan for achieving this objective. The agreed plan called for:
(i) a reduction in output iG better correspond to effective demand; (ii) the revision of programs to provide
less speciali--A training whicL would make the graduates more polyvalent and match more closely
possible job opportunities in both the r:blic and private sectors (previously, the two schools focused
exclusively on training for public sector employment); (iii) the development of new programs for in-
service training in the rural sector; and (iv) reduction in recurrent unit costs.
19.          The reduced output and the polyvalent programs (i.e., fewer specializations and all
students following a common core program before specializing) argued strongly for a merger of the two
institutions in order to save on both administrative and teaching staff. Such a merger had already been
suggested in the mid 1980s by a mission reviewing FAO/UNDP support for IPDR. A major part IDA's
dialogue with the Gov-ernment to achieve the objective of creating a -viable and financially sustainable
institution focused on the modalities of this merger and the use of facilities freed by the merger. In the
end, the Government decided to merge the IPDR and ECE into a single institution for training middle-
level agricultural and livestock personnel in enhanced IPDR facilities, and transfer the freed ECE facility
to the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRAN). The capacity of the freed ECE facility
(financed under the project at a base cost of about US$10.5 million) corresponded approximately to a
planned expansion of the existing INRAN research station at Kolo, to be financed by an IDA Agricultural
Research Project under preparation at that time. More specifically, the restructuring aimed to: (a) lower
the enrollment capacity from a total of 650 at IPDR and ECE to 400 at the merged school; (b) reduce
the annual recurrent budget from about CFAF 795 million in 1987-88 (including foreign technical
assistance) to CFAF 310 million in 1990-91; (c) increase the pupil/teacher ratio from 4.4:1 to 10:1, and
the number of teaching hours per trainer per week from about 5.5 to 14.8; and (d) reduce costs per
trainee per year from about CFAF 950,000 to CFAF 775,000. Following the restructuring discussed
above, implementation proceeded in accordance with the revised project components albeit with some
delays.
20.          Following the agreement between the Government, UNDP and IDA on the merger of
IPDR and ECE, the Govermment issued in March 1989 a decree abolishing the two former separate
institutions and allocating the facilities of the former ECE to INRAN, as well as an ordinance creating
the new merged school within the facilities of IPDR. Implementation of the merger of IPDR and ECE
began in October 1988, with first-year students starting their training with a common core of courses.
A pedagogical task force was established in early 1989 to develop: (i) new and less specialized programs
for pre-employment training for agricultural and livestock technicians and extension agents; and (ii) in-
service training programs for existing staff. The new programs would be implemented gradually (i.e.,
first year in 1988, second year in 1989, and so on), in parallel with an out-phasing of the old programs.
By mid-1989, although the merger had been achieved, it had not yet had the desired beneficial effect on
recurrent costs, due to continued excessive staffing and low teaching loads (ess than half the official
norm). The need for accelerated revision of existing programs and development of a more cost-effective
delivery system was emphasized to the Government at that time, as was the need to significantly improve
3 This balance is almost exclusively a result of exchange rate flucWations between the CPAP and the US dollar during
the project implementation period; the average ex_hange rate during project implementation was US$1 = CPAP 431, compared
to US$1 = CPAF 210 at appraisal.



7
the management of the school. By the date of project completion (October 31, 1990), staffing had been
decreased by 64% from the pre-merger staffing, with corresponding beneficial effects on budget
requirements and on unit costs of the training.
21.           The two other components of the project, i.e., strengthening of educational planning and
project preparation capacities, and formulation of policies for upgrading key civil service personnel,
remained essentially unchanged during the project restructuring process. As described in Section K
(Consulting Services) of this report, significant delays were experienced in recruitment of the technical
assistance for the MCSL and the MNE. This contrasted with recruitment of the technical assistance for
the Project Unit in the MRD, which was completed before Credit Effectiveness. Recruitment delays
resulted in delays in completion of studies financed under the project. Delays also occurred in award of
fellowships, mainly because of a lack of qualified candidates. It should be noted, however, that part of
this delay resulted from the project being declared effective ten months later than foreseen in the Credit
Agreement. Finally, as part of the project preparation component and following an urgent request from
the Government, IDA agreed, in March 1986, to finance the construction of 60 primary school
classrooms to test new low-cost construction methods to be used for the 750 classrooms to be built under
the Second Education Project (Cr. 1740-NIR). I However, due to extensive delays in the bidding and
contract awarding processes caused mainly by serious inefficiencies on the part of the Ministry of Public
Works, the construction (which took only about one month to complete) did not begii* until September
1989, three and one-half years later and nearly three years after the Second Education Project was
approved by the Board (November 1986). Nevertheless, this negative experience proved very useful in
developing a successful school construction program under the Second Education Project since it
demonstrated that the key to timely and cost-effective primary school construct:sn in Niger was to avoid
using the Ministry of Public Works for awarding and managing construction contracts. The experience
helped to reduce construction costs under the Second Education Project by more than 50% and led to the
successfil completion, ahead of schedule, of the 750 classrooms built under that project.
22.          In supervision reports, the "Overall Status" I of the project, which had been rated "1"
by the first several supervision missions, was downgraded to "2" in April 1986, and to "3" in November
1986. These downgradings were due primarily to a downgrading of the "Development Impact' of the
project, which decreased from the initial "1" to "3" in April 1986, and remained at "3" until after the
project restructuring, at which time a "2" rating was assigned (May 1988).  Similarly, project
management was assessed at a "1" rating until early 1986 when it fell to "2", continuing to "3" in late
1986, and then returning to "2" for the remainder of project implementation.
23.           Prject Supervision. Project supervision responsibilities were borne primarily by IDA
staff in the education sector, in consultation with colleagues in the agriculture and livestock sectors. The
make-up of IDA supervision missions is shown in Part HI (Table 8B) of this report. At the start of
project implementation, an Agricultural Trainer managed supervision, with assistance from an Architect
and an Economist. Beginning in 1986, an education economist/education planner managed supervision
and led the policy dialogue on behalf of IDA through the consensus-building and restructuring phases.
4   The total cost of the 60 classrooms built under Cr. 1151-NIR was CFAF 200 milion (or about CFAF 3 milion per
classroom).
5 Initially, status ratings were defined as foDows: Rating "1" = Problem-free o.r minor problems; Rating "2" = Moderate
problems; Rating '3" = Major problems. The ratings were redefined in March 1989 (cf. Operational Directive 13.05,
Annex D2) as folows: Rating "1" = No significant problems; Rating "2" = Moderate problems; Rating "3" = Major
problems. Appropriate actions are being taken to address these problems; Rating "4" = Major problems. They are not being
addressed adequately.



8
An agricultural training expert (consultant) played a major role in guiding both IDA and the Government
during the project restructuring period. Furthermore, during the different stages of the reconstruction
process, three separate national teams were established to develop oriions acceptable to the various
Nigerien constituencies. This wide-ranging consensus-building effort resulted in a solution that could be
successfully implemented. Finally, it should be stressed that the full agreement between UNDP and IDA
on the objectives and modaliths of the restructuring of the schools also helped ensure a successful
outcome.
24.          Project Risks. The project risks identified at appraisal concerned the potential for:
(a) implementation delays; (b) inefficiency of the training programs, and shortage of competent and
motivated teachers; and (c) limited effectiveness of graduate extension workers. The first two risks were
considered marginal because of the effective project management arrangements that had been established,
the advanced state of project preparation by IDA and the Government, the strong international team
assisting the Government in developing IPDR, and the careful preparation of the ECE program. The
third risk was expected to be affected by external factors, such as structural weakness in the extension
services, access to inputs for extension work, and planned improvements in extension services under other
development projects. In retrospect, the risk concerning the inefficiency of the training programs proved
to be one of the reasons for the decision to restructure the project at a time when it was substantially
completed. With regard to the other risks, only delays in the recruitment of technical assistance experts
occurred.
25.          One major problem which did develop during project implementation, but which was not
identified as a risk at appraisal, was the Government's inability to recruit the graduates trained at the two
institutions for public sector employment. However, the appraisal team did assess this demand-related
risk and concluded that: "Recurrent cost financing.. .should not be a major problem since rural
development is the Government's top priority, and the capacity and output of the schools has been based
on a determination of the manpower requirements of ongoing and planned priority projects and of the
Government's ability to finance the work of the graduates on an annual basis" (Staff Appraisal Report,
p. 26). The authors of this report explained that the above statement reflected hopes during an
economically more favorable period, rather than a failure to adequately consider costs. It should be noted
that while the Government's severe budgetary constraints led to reduced civil service recruitment, and
thus to reduced enrollment at the two schools, the annual budgetary provisions for operating the schools
were maintained during the last half of the 1980s at the level approved in 1985 when the schools
functioned at full capacity.
26.          One judgment made at appraisal which required reassessment during project
implementation was that the ECE component was large enough to justify constructing a new and separate
trainig institute at the same site as IPDR, rather than expanding EAATEN. As indicated previously,
given the high projected requirements for livestock technicians and extension agents and the specialized
nature of the training programs at the IPDR and ECE, the option of providing both types of training at
IPDR was probably less obvious at the time of appraisal than at the time of project restructuring.
27.          In summary, while some of the major risks were correctly identified at appraisal, their
relative importance was not accurately assessed - primarily a result of the difficulty in anticipating major
economic changes over a ten-year period which would affect manpower demand projections, such as long-
lasting slumps in commodity prices (e.g., uranium), and lengthy droughts. While the project was
originally scheduled to be fully completed and the credit closed by December 1987, the major changes
in the economic environment had become evident by 1986, four years into project implementation; in
addition, the project restructuring was carried out in 1987-88, delaying project completion until 1990,



9
ten years after project appraisal. However, this delay helped to ensure that the training capacity created
under the project remain sustainable after project completion.
F.    Prjlect Resul
28.          In this completion report, the basis for assessment of project results or outputs are: the
original project objectives, which remained unchanged; the original project components, some of which
were changed during the 1987-88 project restructuring; and the original targets set for each component
toward achieving the project objectives.
29.          Improving educational planning and preparing future Lducation projects was a small
but important project objective designed to help translate the human resources development objectives of
the 1979-83 Five-Year Development Plan into concrete actions. The objective was only partially
achieved, due largely to implementation delays, as described in Section K of this report. The
Government gave assurances during negotiations that it would submit to IDA for review: (i) an interim
status report on the educational planning work by December 31, 1982; and (ii) a final status report on
this work by July 31, 1984. With the assistance of technical experts financed under the Credit, the
Government completed this work in 1985/86 as part of the preparation of the Second Education Project
(Primary Education Development) and Niger's First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL 1), for which the
Government developed an education sector strategy in 1986. The main objective of the sector strategy
was to achieve more efficient use of existing sectoral resources, in order to prevent any decline in the
already low primary school enrollment rates, due to Government financial constraints. Similarly, project
fellowships scheduled to be awarded by the MNE by October 1981 were not awarded until November
1986. These fellowships were used for the training of an education planner (at the International Institute
of Educational Planning, UNESCO, Paris), and a school-mapping specialist. Both trainees returned to
the MNE's Education Planning Division.
30.          Formulating policies and programs for upgrading key dvil service personnel, though
very minor in terms of financing (0.2% of base costs), was also a potentially important objective, in
terms of opening up an effective dialogue between IDA and the Government on civil service staffing and
training issues. This objective was also only partially achieved, and there were considerable delays in
recruitment of planned technical assistance expert. The Government gave assurances during negotiations
that it would submit to IDA for review by September 30, 1982, a summary report on the public
administration component, and the technical assistance was originally scheduled for the period October
1981 to March 1982. Project supervision reports show that as of December 1987, the Government was
only in the process of selecting a consultant, and that the MCSL had only recently agreed to conduct the
study, in spite of reminders of the covenant during every supervision mission. By July 1988, the
Government had selected a consultant to prepare the study, and IDA approved both the terms of reference
and the consultant contract during the supervision mission that month. The MCSL study on training for
the civil service was completed in December 1988. The implications of the study were reviewed with
Government during the March 1989 supervision mission, in connection with preparation of the vocational
training component in the proposed Third Education Project.
31.          The objective of upgrading the quality and expanding the output of middle-level
technicians and extension workers in agriculture and animal production required the largest project
components, comprising 92% of project financing. As explained previously, the physical implementation
of this oargely hardware) component was implemented quite efficiendy and ahead of schedule. The
problems which led to the restructuring of this component following its physical completion have also
been discussed.



10
32.          At appraisal, the actual enrollment at IPDR at Kolo was 200 trainees, while the
enrollment at EAATEN in Niamey - to be moved to the new ECE at Kolo - totalled about 100. The
enrollment targets set at appraisal for achievement by project completion were 450 agricultural trainees
at IPDR, and 200-240 animal production trainees at the proposed new ECE, totalling 650-690 trainees
at the two institutions. In 1985-86, immediately prior to the project restructuring process, the enrollment
figures stood at 398 (137 for ECE and 261 at IPDR). During restructuring, along with the decision to
merge ECE and IPDR, it was decided to revise the enrollment targets for 1990-91, which were reset at
400 for the merged IPDR, including both agricultural and animal production trainees. Immediately
following project restructuring, in 1988-89, the enrollment figures had decreased by about 15% in animal
production and increased by about 15% in agricultural training, leaving the total enrollment of the newly
merged institution at 417 trainees. By the time of project completion, this figure stood at 429, and was
expected to level off at about 400 in 1991 when the revised programs were fully implemented for the
entire four-year cycle. Thus the original target of 650-690 trainees was partially achieved, and the
revised target of 400 trainees, better responding to the changed economic circumstances, was
approximately achieved.
33.          Project objectives were also achieved in terms of upgrading the quality of training for
agricultural and livestock technicians. The quality of training was improved at the merged IPDR through
revision of the curriculum. Although some delays were still being encountered at project completion in
implementation of the curriculum reform, the curriculum revision and the course content adaptation in
the merged IPDR is expected to result in better quality and more polyvalent graduates who will be better
prepared to compete for jobs in the labor market. Furthermore, the restructuring of the training program
of the new (merged) school included provision of in-service training for practitioners in the agricultural
sector, training not provided for in the original project design. Finally, as the revised training programs
are less specialized and include a common core for all students regardless of later specialization, this
ensures that the former two schools are not functioning in parallel within the new institution.
34.          The economic effect of merging IPDR and ECE included an estimated reduction of 35%
in the combined recurrent budget of the two schools, largely due to reduction in both teaching and non-
teaching staff. While maintaining its allocations to this type of training, this budget reduction allowed
the Government to assume responsibility for a greater proportion of total expenditures, i.e., from 29.3%
of the budget before restructuring to an estimated 66.2% of the revised budget following restructuring,
and a projected 100% by 1990/91. To achieve this final target would, however, imply an increase in the
Government's contribution for the operation of the two schools from CFAF 235 million during the last
half of the 1980s, to CFAF 310 million in 1990/91 (32 %). However, as explained below, IDA agreed
to continue to contribute to the financing of the new school under a new agricultural research credit.
35.          The ratio of trainee/trainer increased from 4:4 immediately prior to restructuring, to
approximately 6:5 at project completion, with a revised target of 10:0 by 1990-91. At the same time,
the number of teaching hours per trainer per week increased from 5.5 before restructuring to about 8.0
at project completion, with a revised target of 14.8 by 1990-91. Therefore, because of this increase in
effective teaching load, the increase in the number of students per teacher did not reduce the number of
teaching hours received by students. Following restructuring, the average cost per trainee in the two
schools decreased by 57% (from CFAF 2,228,000 to CFAF 958,000); the target for 1990-91 was CFAF
775,000).
36.          The transfer of the ECE facility to INRAN resulted in the cost savings of US$10.5 million
in programmed investments for facilities for INRAN under the National Agricultural Research Project,
which will manage the use of the new INRAN (former ECE) facility.



11
G.    Project Sustainability
37.          The Project was restructured in 1987-88, largely due to considerations of sustainability
of the two training institutions supported under the project following its completion. Although the
quantity of agricultural and livestock technicians being trained is now aboum one third lower than projected
at appraisal, it is a level which better corresponds to effective labor market demand for this type of
trained manpower. The revision of project components during project implementation led to greater
internal -fficiency of the merged training institution, as indicated by lower unit costs and higher
trainee/trainer ratios, leading to lower recurrent costs and higher capacity utilizatiom. In response to a
Government request, IDA agreed to continue financing some of the recurrent costs of the new facility
following completion of this project (about CFAF 10 million or US$0.3 million per year). This
continued support, which will help ensure sustainability of the new IPDR, will be financed under the
National Agricultural Research Credit, approved in April 1990.
38.          Both the sustainability of the project and its impact on human resource development in
Niger were enhanced by IDA's flexibility in restructuring the project during implementation in a
deteriorating economic environment. Such flexibility in response to changing circumstances is especially
desirable in the human resources sectors, where project implementation periods are relatively long, and
project impact and outcomes can be measured only over the long-term. By 1990, at the time of project
completion, the focus of IDA lending in Niger remained on the human resources sectors, including
maintaining at an adequate level the Government's budgetary allocations to education in order to ensure
the sustainability of previous and current investments in the sector.
H.    IDA Performance
39.          IDA performance was strong in the following areas: (a) quality of project supervision
which focussed on long-term project impact and sustainability rather than narrowly on physical
implementation; (b) achievement of the original project objectives through revised project components
within a reasonable period of time (two to three years); and (c) successful process of consensus-building
between IDA, UNDP, and the Government (see Section J for further discussion) which preceded the
restructuring of the project.
40.          With the benefit of hindsight, IDA's performance could have been improved if, at the
time of project appraisal, more attention had been given to two areas. The first was the possibility of
expanding IPDR to include livestock training rather than constructing a new school in the same location.
In this regard, it was not evident that the effective demand for livestock training would justify a newly
constructed institution in Kolo, separate from IPDR. Although IPDR was probably not large enough in
1980 to absorb ECE, IDA could have been more critical, could have listened better to opposing views
in reviewing the Government's proposal for new construction for ECE, and could have suggested
expanding IPDR to include ECE. Alternatively, the existing livestock school in Niamey may have been
expanded.
41.          The second area which would have required more attention was the recognition of the
existence of an emerging private sector demand for graduates of IPDR and ECE, rather than acceptance
of the Government's incorrect assumption of no demand for private sector employment and for private
sector involvement in the financing of training and in curriculum development. Since the original project
design was based on projected manpower demand in the Nigerien economy, both private and public sector
employment were implicitly included. The financial organization of the project, however, included only
the contribution of the public sector. Although private sector issues were actively discussed at the time



12
of project restructuring, the revised project design was likewise based largely on public sector
employment and financing. Private sector employment for graduates and involvement in operating and
financing the school were actively addressed only in the final stages of project implementation; IPDR
enrollment effectively opened to the private sector in 1989, resulting in the enrollment of 38 private
students (out of 429 students), compared to only one private student in 1985, and two in 1986. Earlier
attention to this issue could have led to more fee-paying, private students and more private sector
participation in operating and financing the school.
I.    Borrower Performance
42.          The project was managed by the Training Bureau in the MRD, in consultation with the
MNE. This was consistent with the fact that the bulk of project financing was allocated to trainmag of
agricultural and livestock technicians.
43.          The Borrower's performance in project implementation was effective in the following
areas: (a) coordination of a long-term multi-donor program to develop IPDR, beginning in 1977, in
which each agency financed a distinctive part of tha program, and which IDA joined in 1982; and
(b) application to the project of experience gained in managing IDA-assisted projects in the rural
development sector, which had established procedures for accomplishing recruitment of agricultural
technical assistance experts and other matters in a timely manner. The Project Unit employed a Project
Director and Accountant according to schedule, and submitted most reports and audits in a timely
manner. Lengthy delays occurred mostly in those components of the project which were being
implemented by the MNE and MCSL.
44.          The Borrower's performance could have been improved in the following areas:
(a)    earlier and more attention to the inefficient functioning of IPDR and ECE prior to the
project's restructuring - IDA had requested that the Government study the internal
efficiency and administrative procedures at the two schools to reduce costs as early as
1984, through repeated telexes and reminders during supervision;
(b)    more timely recruitnent of technical assistance for the MNE and MCSL components, and
more timely award of scholarships under the MNE component;
(c)    earlier recognition of and response to the emerging private demand for IPDR/ECE
graduates, which might have led the schools to develop more flexible curricula earlier on,
to better prepare graduates for the job market, and to achieve a larger percentage of their
original enrollment projections. In recognition of this demand, especially in the livestock
sector, the merged IPDR is now encouraged to cater to private as well as public sector
demand; and
(d)    more timely execution of the bidding and contract award processes for the 60 primary
school classrooms financed to test new low-cost school construction techniques to be used
under the Second Education Project (see para. 21).



13
J.    Project Relationships
45.          An important indicator of project relationships among the various parties involved in the
project is the considerable effort that was expended in developing a consensus among Government
officials, IDA staff, and UNDP concerning the proposed restructuring of the project design and the
changes which would be implemented as a result. The consensus-building effort extended over an 18-
month period, and involved an in-country workshop in mid-1987 at which Government, IDA, and UNDP
views were discussed. During this workshop, the Government presented a report on the restructuring
alternatives, prepared by a national study group formed to examine the scope for cost reduction and
adaptation of the functioning of the schools to the new economic situation. IDA also presented a position
paper at the workshop. Following the workshop, the Government produced a feasibility study in late
1987 which confirmed that a strong argument existed for merging the two schools and recommended the
transfer of the Faculty of Agriculture (FA) of the Niamey University to the ECE infrastructure in Kolo.
In February 1988, the Government decided in principle to merge the two schools and to transfer the FA
to Kolo. The Government then formed an Ad Hoc Committee which completed a third report in mid-
1988 on the modalities of the agreed merger of IPDR and ECE and on the expected transfer of the FA
to Kolo. When it became evident in early 1988 that the FA preferred to remain in Niamey, a consensus
was again developed on the transfer of the ECE facility to INRAN. Within IDA, the education sector
staff responsible for project supervision consulted regularly with agriculture and livestock sector staff
concerning project design and restructuring, including desired profiles of IPDR/ECE graduates and
training content. Comments from IDA agriculture staff were also incorporated into the consultant report
on the IPDR/ECE merger before the report was conveyed to the Government.
K.      an-su!ing Services
46.          Consultants actually financed under the First Education Project included 378 man-months
(mm) as follows: (a) Education Planning Component: Education Planner (36 mm) and Education and
Architectural Consultant (24 mm); (b) Civil Service Component: Specialist in Upgrading (6 mm); (c)
IPDR Component: Specialist in Finance and Administration (48 mm), Consultant services in upgrading
math and science teachers (12 mm); (d) ECE Component: Director of Studies (60 mm), Professor of
Pathology and Pharmacy (48 mm), Professor of Animal Production (48 mm), Professor of Pasture
Management (48 mm); and (e) Project Management Component: Specialist in Finance and Procurement
(48 mm). UNDP participation amounted to US$2.5 million, covering the total cost of the 264 mm of
technical assistance for the IPDR and ECE components of the Project, all of which was additional to the
US$3.0 million allocation independently proposed by UNDP for IPDR. Consultant services under the
project together represented 12.7% of the base costs a. appraisal, whereas disbursements for consultants
and professional fees represented 6.8% of total disbursements under the project. An additional 4.0% of
disbursements were made to refinance the two PPFs, a portion of which was allocated to consultant
services.
47.          The MCSL delayed until mid-1988 the selection of a consultant to carry out a study on
civil service training, in spite of frequent reminders from IDA. It should be recalled that this was a very
minor component, comprising a total of six months of consulting services. The MNE used the technical
assistance allocated to it under the project, but implementation was delayed by three years. Delays also
occurred in the recruitment by FAO of some of the technical experts under UNDP financing for the IPDR
and ECE components. As a result, some of this technical assistance was reduced in number of man-
months or dropped altogether (consultants for math and science teaching), and some of the financing was
taken over by IDA. Recruitment of the Financial and Procurement Specialist for the Project Unit in
MDR was handled by IDA's former Agricultural Project Management Unit, which was able to put this



14
expert in post in November 1981, before Credit Effectiveness. As concerns fellowships, those foreseen
under the project for education planning were used as envisaged, as were planned study tours in the
region. Those fellowships for IPDR staff - representing two thirds of total project assistance for
fellowships - were initially underutUized and, in the end, a revised plan was approved to extend these
fellowships to Ministry staff in addition to IPDR staff.
L.    Proiect Documentation and Data
48.          Original documentation for the project prepared by IDA was adequate, but original
background studies prepared by other agencies, such as UNESCO, ILO and FAO were not available for
review. The SAR provided a useful framework for implementation of the project from 1982-1986. Most
of the consultant reports prepared during the restructuring process from 1986-1988 were available in
French. Lack of information in supervision reports or files at headquarters regarding implementation of
the technical assistance components for the MNE and the MCSL limited full reporting on the content of
these components.
49.          The last full supervision mission for the project took place in July 1989. In October
1989, a Nigerien delegation visited Washington to finalize discussions on development of new training
programs to complete the restructuring of IPDR. The results of these discussions were recorded in an
aide-memoire. A mission to Niger in November 1989 conducted limited supervision of the project,
consisting of implementation reviews with the Project Director and those persons responsible for key
components. No completion mission was undertaken for the project.



15
P-ART II: P-RO.ET REVIEW FROM XORROWER'S PERSPECTIE
A.    Introduction
50.          The First Education Project was the first lending operation by a World Bank specialized
institution in the education sector in Niger. The Government had asked the World Bank Group to finance
a project to train middle-level agriculture and livestock production staff and also to assist it in drawing
up programs and projects relating to conventional-type education and mi-service training which would be
eligible for subsequent B-nk Group financing. This project accordingly focuses on mitigating three of
the main problems in the human resources area:
(a)   the inadequate development of the conventional education system;
(b)   the lack of qualified staff for ensuring the smooth running cf the Administration;
(c)   the shortage of middle-level staff in the development sector (agriculture and livestock)
considered to be the top priority.
B.    Presentation of the pr-iject
51.          Background   The First Education Project was the outcome of Credit Agreement
No. 115I-NIR of June 19, 1981, between the International Development Association (IDA) and the
Govermnent of the Republic of Niger. Execution of the project commenced one year later, i.e., in July
1982.
52.          The Credit of SDR 17.3 million approved on May 26, 1981, was intended mainly for
rehabilitation of the Rural Development Training Institute (IPDR) and construction of an Animal
Production Training School (ECE) at Kolo. The physical implementation of the project was completed
without major diffitculties. Despite this good performance, around 1986 the expected development impact
was threatened by underutilization of the installed capacity Oess than 50% in 1986/87) and high costs in
the two establishments. In recent years IDA, in conjunction with the Government, examined measures
for remedying this situation. As a result, the Government decided to merge the IPDR and ECE to create
a new IPDR. The next stage was proposal of a consistent general training plan with the aim of reducing
recurrent costs and preparing the basic and continuing training programs to be used.
53.          Strategy and Operating Objectives. The objectives of the First Education Project can be
sum-irized as follows:
EartA: Education Planning and Project Preparation
This part, which has now become the Second Education Project, had the following basic
objectives:
Draw up an education development plan;
Formulate strategies for education development;
Identify and prepare education projects;



16
-     Prepare curricula with a view to introducing education planning and school mapping into
the training programns for education planning staff;
-     Train the Borrower's personnel in education and school mapping techniques and
provision of the fellowships required.
Part B: Public Administration and Labor
This component consists of three essential elements that form its objectives-
-     Inventory of vocational training needs;
-     Preparation and execution of the training programs deriving from this inventory;
-     Identification and preparation of future projects for upgrading and advanced traininlg in
the private and parapublic sectors.
PartLC: Agricultural Techniciar. Training
Based on the Kolo IPDR, the project objectives were:
-     Construction, furniture and equipment for the final phase of execution of the IPDR at
Kolo;
-     Fellowships for upgrading the IPDR teaching staff;
-     In-service training and courses in basic science for the IPDR teaching staff;
-     Reorientation and improvement of the IPDR curriculum.
Part D: Animal Production Technician Training
Based on the Animal Production Training School (ECE), this component had the following
objectives:
-     Construction, furniture and equipment for establishment of the ECE;
-     Preparation of curriculum for the ECE;
-     Provision of fellowships for ECE staff;
-     On-the-job training for ECE staff.
54.          Allocation of credit proceeds. The table below shows the categories of goods and services
financed by the Credit, the amount of the Credit initially allocated to each category, and the percentage
of expenditures for the procurement of goods or payment for services authorized for each category:



17
CATEGORY                Sum allocated      % financed
__ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __   (SDR)  by   IDA
1.    Civil works                        11,200,000
2.    Professional fees                     500,000      95%
3.    Furniture                             900,000      95%
4.    Equipment                             900,000      95%
5.    Consultant services                   700,000
6.    Fellowships                           500,000      95%
7.    operating costs                       400,000    100%
8.    Repayment of PPF                      600,000    100%
9.    Unallocated                         1.,00.000      90%
TOTAL          17!300,QOO
C.   Project resulLs
55.         The project results benefitted three ministries:
-    Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
-     Ministry of Public Administration
-     Ministry of National Education.
These results were made possible by the financial contributions of IDA, UNDP and the Niger
Government (National Investment Budget).
56.         IDA flnancin .  Actual P)A assistance under Credit 1 151-NIR amounted to
CFAF 6,232,963,262, broken down as follows:
CATEG.                  ITEMS                   AMOUNTS
I  Civil works                       4,168,135,713
II  Professional fees                   460,893,292
III  Furniture                           255,339,039
IV  Equipment                           316,733,678
V  Consultant services                 177,303,985
VI  Fellowships and training            131,974,636
VII  Operating costs                     591,876,892
Working capital                     130.706.027
TOTAL   6.232 93263



18
(a)    Category I: CivilWorks
These expenditure, related to:
-     Construction
*     ECE buildings
*     Prim&., education classrooms
*     Prototype classrooms (Yantala)
-     Renovation of existing buildings
*     Expansion of IPDR
At a total cost of CFAF 4,168,135,713.
(b)    Category I: Profeasional fees
Fees of architects and other specialists aggregating CFAF 460,893,292.
(c)    Category ml: Furniture
Office and housing furniture purchased under the project and allocated to the different project
components, vi7.:
-     Former IPDR
-     Former ECE
-     Project management
-     Education planning
-     Public administration
-     IPDR (new establishment)
id)    Category IV: Equipment
Office, school and housing equipment totalling CFAF 316,733,678 was procured for the project.
(e)    Categgly V: Consultant Services
Technical assistance provided to the project by international experts at IDA's request. At the end
of the project, the cost of this assistance totalled CFAF 177,303,985.
(0)    CategoryVl: Fellowships and Training
One of the project's basic objectives is to produce staff for the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock who are sufficiently trained in their specialties. Several training and retraining
programs were drawn up in this context. As of November 30, 1990, CFAF 131,974,636 (100%)
was financed by IDA for fellowships and training.
(g)    CatgQry Vl: QperatingCQal
Operatmg costs, 90% funded by IDA, comprise not only local wage costs and supplies, but also
maintenance costs on vehicles, offices, housing, buildings, roads and infrastrucre systems, etc.
As of November 30, 1990, operating costs financed by IDA amounted to CFAF 591,876,892.



19
(h)         ogCatl
The PPF plus working capital made available to the project, the total figure as of the end of the
project being CFAF 130,7i6,027.
57.          UNDP Contribution.  The UNDP contribution to Credit 1151-NIR was CFAF
2,102,572,218, in the form of provision of the former IPDR, the former ECE, technical assistance
experts, and other investments in 'urniture and miscellaneous equipment, as follows:
-     former IPDR  CFAF 1,109,926,750
former ECE           992,645,468
58.          Niger Govermnent Financing. The Government's contribution to project financing
included: civil works (5%), professional fees (10%), furniture and equipment (5%), and operating costs
(10%), as well as related commitnent fees and services charges.
(a)    Operating and investment expenditures
*     Total Govermment expenditures, including investment and operating expenditures,
amounted to CFAF 459,222,094, as of November 30, 1990..
(b)    Commitment fee and debt service
o     In accordance with Article II, Section 2.05 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower is to
pay a commitment fee of 0.75% per year on the principal amount of the credit withdrawn
and outstanding; as of November 30, 1990, fees paid under Article It, Section 2.05 of
the Credit Agreement amounted to CFAF 225,712,635.
D.    Comments on prolect design and implementation
59.          Since the primary aims of the project were establishment of one training institution (ECE)
and strengthening of another, infrastructure and equipment accounted for a large proportion of the
financing and IDA felt it desirable to use the services of an expert (architect) for execution of these
components. The Nigerien authorities felt that the architect's main concern was to keep the cost of these
investments down, to the detriment of efficiency and contrary to common sense (see below).
Infrastructure
60.          Trainer housing. The initial design in the project document called for construction of
housing following a stepped layout that would ensure separation of the houses was not adhered to. To
cut costs, the dwellings were built in blocks which give the definite overall impression of a military
barracks. Efforts at improvement had to be made by building walls giving each unit a yard.
61.          Liestock housing. This was designed for cold climates, resulting in very high cost; less
costly models more suited to Niger's conditions are available.
62.          Roads and infrastructure items. The designs did not take the particularly irregular
topography into account. They proved quite inadequate for their purpose and additional work had to be
done on them. Problems still persist.



20
63.          Irrigation. The works were not well maintained; the irrigation systems had to be
reconditioned four years after they were put into service.
64.          Kitchen cold room. There is a design error here in basing the entire insulation system
on the thickness of the walls, without using the normal thermal insulation materials. Foods can currently
only be kept for a very limited time.
65.           Multinurpose room.  Additional work had to be done in 1990 (ventilation, air
conditioning) to make this room usable. Until these improvements, it was too hot for any activity. This
was also due to a design error on the part of the architect.
66.          Auditorium. This was also designed for a cold climate; it is uncomfortable to spend more
than an hour in it. It is still therefore very little used.
67.          Furniture in staff and student housing. This furniture was ordered from Europe without
the users being consulted and is unsuitable for the intended purposes. Since the base material used is
bagasse, broken items cannot be repaired. In particular, the beds supplied for the staff and student
housing had to be rebuilt by changing the spring system after two years' use.
68.           Classroom furniture. While there have not in general been any problems with this, it
should, however, be noted that the drafting tables are still in their boxes because they cannot be used as
intended. Here, too, the users were not consulted by the international expert who did the ordering. The
problem is all the more serious in that there is no real possibility of having them adapted locally.
69.          Kitchen equipment. This equipment was ordered entirely from Europe and is not suited
to the requirements of the student housing. As a result, it is in storage and new equipment has been
purct ased.
70.          Vehicles. There are no particular problems connected with this item. However, in view
of the present vehicles' age they need to be replaced; this was recognized by IDA and the replacement
procedure initiated. Unfortunately, at that stage there was a change in project supervisor at IDA
headquarters and as a result of the new supervisor's actions the procurement was not carried through.
71.          Training and fellowships. At the time of writing of this report a certain number of
payment requests have not been honored by IDA, namely:



21
Project Managements                                               CFAF 24,659,550
-     PR No. 313                         3,460,0001
-     PR No. 314                         3,460,0001
-     PR No. 315                         3,460,000
-     PR No. 316                         3,300,000
-     PR No. 317                         1,450,000
-     PR No. 318                         1,735,000
-     PR No. 319                         1,250,000
-     PR No. 320                         1,450,000
-     PR No. 322                         3,294,550
-     PR No. 323                         1,800,000
Education Planning                                                 CFAF 2,036,555
-     PR No. 321                         2,036,554
E.    Conclusions of the Nigerien authorities
72.          The project was executed in a very favorable context of a strong dollar, which made quite
considerable savings possible on the SD-A 17,300,000 financed by IDA. These savings enabled three
extensions of the closing date of one year each while more than US$2 million still remained available as
of June 30, 1990, the project Closing Date.
73.          The recession coupled with the State's limited resources have led, at IDA's urging, to the
merging of the two institutions forming the substance of the project barely four years after their
establishment. It was this merger process which was the reason for the three project extensions, even
though they were not in fact sufficient for completion of the process, which was started in 1988 and will
not be finalized until June 1992. The absence of a long-term policy on the part of the World Bank will
be noted here; the impression is obtained that our countries' problems are only considered in terms of
the economic situation of the moment.
74.          It will be recalled that the transfer of the ECE from Niamey to Kolo with installation of
costly new infrastructure facilities was effected at IDA insistence during the uranium boom years, with
the aim, IDA averred, of training enough staff for rural promotion work. Four years later, IDA required
that the school be merged with the renewed IPDR so that the cost of training can be reduced. The
merger was effected in March 1989; the new training institution was moved into the old IPDR and the
new premises vacated by the ECE were transferred to the INRAN (new classrooms, renovated
dormitories) at the cost of additional investments, with the result that the INRAN has been bequeathed
an inadequate infrastructure that will have to be converted by means of further investments.
75.          This merger, that will not be finalized until 1992 with the complete merging of the former
two schools' programs, still needs assistance that has unfortunately been halted. While training by
objective had been mastered at the old IPDR, this is not the case with the trainers from the former ECE.
The renewed program also requires continuing pedagogic training of the trainers. Moreover, the new
i/    It should be noted that these amounts represent expense to be paid by students in training under the Fist Education
Project. It would be desirable for IDA to take the necessary steps to enable these students to cormplete their sWdies.



22
establishment has been assigned responsibility for continuing on-the-job training, for which purpose it has
opted for modular-type instruction. All these considerations point to the need for new assistance of at
least two years' duration.
76.           Following the merger, the new institution opened its doors to the private sector and the
number of students from this sector is growing steadily. In addition, the Ministry of Planning wishes the
institution to provide agric.:ltural entrepreneur training for candidates for voluntary retirement from the
civil service. These t7vo new activities increase our need for new assistance from IDA or any other
donor.



23
PART m: STAISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:      RIdateBank lansIDA Credits
USS         Month/Year
Title/Credit Number                        AmStat                                          ments
(million)
Maradi Rural Development (Cr. 068-NIR)    10.7           12/75         Closed 12/80   Fully disbursed
Employment Creation (Cr. 809-NIR)          5.0           5/78          Closed 6/83   Fully disbursed
Livestoclc (Cr. 885-NIR)                  12.0           3/79          Closed 3/89   Fully disbursed
Dosso Agriculturl Dev. (Cr. 967-NIR)      20.0           12/79         Closed 6/85   US$16.8 canceled
Second Maradi Rual Dev. (Cr. 1026-NIR)    16.7           5/80          Closed 9/88   US$6.19M canceled
Structural Adjustment (Cr. A012-NIR)      40.0           2/86          Closed 12/87   US$45.28M disbursed
Structural Adjustment (Cr.1660-NIR)       20.0           2186          Closed 12/87   US$23.19 disbursed
Economic and Financial Management
Improvemet (Cr. 1493-NR)                 11.7           6/84         Closed 10/90   US$13.70M disbursed
Public Enterprise Sector
Adjustment (Cr. A031-NIR)                20.0           6/87         Closed 9/90   USS19.81M disbursed
Public Enterprise Sector
Adjustment (Cr. 1833-NIR)                60.0           6/87         Closed 9/90   US$54.59M disbursed
Primary Education Development
(Cr. 1740-NIR)                           18.4          11/86         To close 6/94   US$10.71M disbursed *
Public Enterprise Inst. Dev. (Cr. 1838-NIR)  5.5         7/87          To close 6/92   US$4.20M disbursed C
National Agricultural Research
(Cr. 2122-NIR)                           19.9           4/90         To close 12/95 US$0.42M disbursed *
(C as of 9/24t91)
Table 2:      Prt T-vIAI
D=                                   atePIlaned          Date Rovived         Actual Dat
Identification                                                                    7/78
Preparaimn                                                                    10-11/78
Apprasd Mission                                                               11-12t79
Post-appraisal                                                                    3/80
Credit Negotiations                    9/80                                      11/80
Board Approval                        12/80                                       5/81
Credit Sigaue                                                                     6/81
Credit Effectiveness *                 9/81              9/81, 12/81, 6/82        7/82
Project Completion                     6/87                                      10/90
Closing D&e                           12/87              12/87, 6/88, 6/89        6/90
Nt: Credit Effectiveness was postponed primary due to delays in the Govenment's adoption of decree relating
to the establhmnt of ECE and the reorganization of IPDR.



Table 3: Time Line of Planned and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA Flscal Year 82     83      84     85    86      87      88      89     90      91
Appraisal
estmates      0.90    6.50   17.90  19.20  21.30  21.47  21.50
Actual        0.00    1.76    6.01   9.83   11.08  12.11   13.86   14.61  15.61    16.65
Actual as %
of appraisal
estimates     0.00    27.00  33.58  51.20  52.02   56.40  64.47   67.95  72.60   77.44
Final disbursements: December 1990
Table 4: Proiect muleunentation
PLANNED               ACTUAL    MONTHS OF
PROJECT COMPONENTS                          COMPLETION            COMPLETION DELAY
1. Educational planng and                   September 1985        October 1989        49
project preparation
- Consultant contracts              September 1985        January 1988         28
- Fellowships                       December 1982          September 1987      58
- Construction (60 primary          Not planned;           October 1989
school classrooms)                  Approved March 1986              Response to urgent
Govt. request
2. Public Administration and Labor          March 1982            March 1988          72
- Consultant contracts              March 1982             1985-1988        36-72
3. Agricultural Technician Training (EPDR)  Septembar 1986        June 1990           45
- Construction work                 June 1983             September 1989       75
- Consultants contracts             December 1985         December 1987        24
- Fellowships                       September 1986         September 1987      12
4. Animal Production Technician Training (ECE)  June 1987         June 1990           36
- Construction work                 June 1983             June 1987            48
- Consultant contracts              June 1987              December 1987        6
- Fellowships                       September 1986         September 1986       0
5. Project Management                       December 1987         June 1990           30
- Consultant contracts                   June 1985              December 1987       30
Cofinancier:
UNDP: 60 m/m technical                      January 1985          January 1988        36
assistance for education
planning component
UNDP: technical assistance                  Some delayed                         24 + 30
for IPDR and ECE components                 Some not completed
Some taken over by IDA financing



25
TABLE 5: Proiect Costs and Financing
Component                                    Estimated Cost
(US$ million)
Local        Foreijn
Education Planning                      0.0           0.4           0.4
Public Administration                    -            0.1           0.1
Agricultural Technician Training (IPDR)  3.6          4.6           8.2
Animal Production Training (ECE)        4.9           6.9          11.8
Project Management                      0.1           0.4           0.5
Base Cost                        8.6          12.4          21.0
Physical Contingencies                  0.8           0.9           1.7
Price Contingencies                     1.5           2.8           4.3
TOTAL                           10.9          16.1          27.0
Allocation of IDA Proceeds - by Component
(USS million, including contingencies)
Comgonent
Education Planning                             1.41
Public Administration                          0.05
Agricultural Technician Training (IPDR)        6.84
Animal Production Training (ECE)               7.67
Project Management                             0.67
TOTAL                                  16.65 *
* Total may not add up due to rounding.
Allocation of IDA Proceeds - by Category
(SDR)
Categora                           Original             Actual
Allocation          Allocation
1.    Civil works                 11,200,000            9,790,654
2.    Professional fees             500,000              235,454
3.    Furniture                     900,000              620,183
4.     Equipment                    900,000              833,934
5.     Consultant services          700,000              784,936
6.    Fellowships                   400,000              387,992
7.    Operating costs, including
local salaries               500,000             1,728,146
8.    Refinancing PPF               600,000              597,373
9.    Unallocated                  1.600.000                  0
Cancellation                              2.346.434
17.300.000          14.953.566
TOTAL                      17,300,000           17,300,000
Balance of SDR 2.35M (US$3.27M) due to exchange rate movements.



N
26
Project Financing Plan *
(US$ million)
SAR Estimates:
CoMponent                                       UNDP         Government   Total
Education Planning                      0.47                                     0.47
Public Administration                   0.05                                     0.05
Agricultural Technician Training (IPDR)  6.81        0.40           1.04         8.25
Animal Production Training (ECE)        8.86          1.50          1.36        11.72
Project Mawlement                       0.49                        0.02         0.51
Base Cost                       16.68          1.90          2.42        21.00
Physical Contingencies                  1.72                        0.03         1.75
Price Contingencies                     3.10          0.60          0.55         4.25
Tota                            21.50          2.50          3.00        27.00
Actual Cost by Flnand                  16.6S         4.87           1.07        22.S9
* SAR exchange rate US$l - CFAF 210; Actual totals exchange rate US$1 = CFAF 431.



27
Tabte 6:  ProIect Rfutt
TARGET      BEFORE             AFTER         CLOSING (EST)
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                AT         RESTRUCT.         RESTRUCT.      DATE                  GOAL
APPRAISAL      1985/86            1988/89        1989/90             1990/91
No. of Trainees
ECE                                 200-240         137                118
IPDR                                    450         261                '99              429            400
TOTAL                               650-690         398                4i7
No. of Full-time Trainers
ECE                                                  24                 16 a%
IPOR                                                 49                 26 a\            35              31
TOTAL                                                73                 42 a\
No. of Part-time Trainers
ECE                                                   4                 11 b\
IPOR                                                 14                 33 b\             9               9
TOTAL                                                18                 44b\
Ratio Traenee/Tralner
ECE                                                  4.9               4.4
IPDR                                                 4.1               5.1              6.5 c\          10
TOTAL                                                4.4               4.8
No. of Suw ort Staff
ECE                                                   21                48
IPDR                                                 107               116               45             79
TOTAL                                                158               164
Ratio Trainee/Support Staff
ECE                                                   2.7              2.5
IPDR                                                  2.4              2.6               2.4 c\        70
TOTAL                                                 2.5              2.5
No. of Teachina Hours/Week/Trainer
ECE                                                   5.9              5.6
IPDR                                                  4.4              4.6               8.0 c\        14.8
TOTAL                                                 5.5              4.9
TOTAL ANNUAL BUDGET
(CFAF 100.000)
ECE                                                   360              117 a\
IPDR                                                  434              238 a\            410 c\      310
TOTAL                                                 794              355 a\
Annual Government budgetary allocation
(CFAF 100.000)
ECE                                                    46               67
IPDR                                                  187              168              410 a\       310
TOTAL                                                 233              235
Unit Costs/Trainee/Year
ECE                                                  2630              992
IPDR                                                 1663              796              958 c\        775
AVERAGE                                              1996              851
Unit Costs/Trainee/Year Paid by Goverrment
ECE                                                   338              568
IPOR                                                  717              F62              958 c\        775
AVERAGE                                               587              851
a\ Decreases due to departure of technical assistance.
b\ Incre-ses comsensate for decreases in full-time traIners.
c\  Projected figures.



TAOLE 7
SANELIAN DEPARTMENT
POPULATION AND NLUN RESOURCES DIVISION
COVENANT STATUS:  N a NET                                         Compilance with Credit Agreement Covenants                           COUNTRY2  NIGER
N   N OT MYT                                                                                                        PROJECT:  CR. 1tS1-NIR
P * PENDING
. ............................................................ ........ ............... ............... .............................. .. .. .. ....... .......... .......................................
SECTION NO. OF
CREDIT/LOAN AGREEMENT                  COVENANT                      STATUS                      COUENTS                          ACTION TAKEN OR REQUIRED
........................................................................................ .................................................................................................................................... .....................
3.02              Borrower to employ Project                 N              Director Is In place.
Director and Assistant Accountant
3.04              Borrower to furnish IDA with               N              Reports prepared.
interim report on educational
plaming by Dec. 31, 1982. and
final report by July 31, 1984
3.05              Borrower to submit by September            N              Study on vocational schools                Implications of study reviewed
30. 1982  Suammry Report on Civil                         training for the civil                    with Borrower in c3nnection
Service Training Component                                service completed Dec. 1988.              with preparation of vocational
training component in
Education 111.
3.06              Borrower to submit by Sept. 30.            N              Due to Borrower's strict                   In view of decline in enroll-
1981. list of proposed fellows                            conditions for attribution of             ment at ECE and IPOR, need for
scholarships, it seems unlikely           training of teaching staff for
that all scholarships will                the two schools has decreased.
and be used.                              and the two schools have now                        o
sufficient trained staff.
4.03              Borrower to employ by Sept. 30.            N
1901. Assistant Director and
Chief Accountant of IPOR.
4.04Cc)           Borrower to submit by Oct. 31 of           N                                                         Budget for FY89 for Project
each year the budget for                -                                                           Unit, IPDR and ECE approved
project institutions.                                                                                during mission. Budget for FY90
(through 12/90) for IPDR was
studied by 7/89 mission. Agree-
ment reached with Govt on condit-
ionat retease of 3 tranches of
additioral budget totatling
CFAF 130 m. Two tranches have
been released. Budget has been
4.01(a)           Borrower to maintain separate              N                                                         to IDA and has been reviewed and
accounts.                                                                                            approved. (See Section 4.04 (c)).
4.02              Borrower shalt have accounts               N              Audit report for FY88 received.
audited inrwalmy.                                                           FY89
FY90
4.04              Borrower shall maintain                    N
institutions.



29
Table 8A: I1u1ttflJIut
(staff-woeks)
STAGE IN PROJECT CYCLE                            Plann                 Qevfs                 Actue
Preparation to Appraisal                                                                    29.T
Appraisal to Board approvaL                                                                 65.3
Board Approval to Effectiveness                                                             12.0
Supervision                                                                                 73.6
PCQ                                               7.1                  12.1                 12.1
0Y IDA FISCAL YEAR
(stoffweeSs)
za   DI 73    74        Th   zz   78 7 Z    RR    81   Al   a    EL   in   Di   Az 81                 2   290  91  2_
Idenj/
Prep.     1.5  0.1   1.1   0.2   0.0   0.6  0.8  16.6 8.8
Appressal                                               36.2   10.2
Negotiatinm                                                     18.9
SL&fvision                                                       2.4   9.6   9.6  12.4   8.6  4.0   12.8  12.1 10.4 3.6  0.1
Pat                                                                                                                      11.  0.2
TO12     1501   1                      06Q86s450315_k                            24 k       jz    2t10   QL 36    LL0 
Table 83: Nissfon Data by Steam of Prolect
STAFF
NO. OF     SPECIALIZATIONS                  WEEKS
NISSION              MOUTH/YEAR       PERSONS    REPRESENTED (*)                 IN FIELD
IDENTIFICATION          07/78           1        Joint IDA/UNESCO missfon         1-3 approx.
PREPARATION             10-11/78                                                   3
PRE-REVIEW MISSIONS  02/79-07/79-09/79
APPRAISAL                12/79          7       AE (C), EC (2), LS                 21
POST-APPRAISAL            3/80                                                     3 approx.
TOTAL                                                                    30



30
(Table 88, continued)
STAFF-                      TYPE
SUPERVISION                     NO. OF     SPECIALIZATIONS      WEEKS       PERFORMANCE      OF
MISSION NO.     MONTH/YEAR      PERSONS      REPRESENTED Ca)   IN FIELD      STATUS (b)  PROBLEM1 tc)
1                11,B1          1             EC               0.5           1            n/a
2                 6/82          1             AE               1             1              T
3                10/83          1             AE               1             1             0
4                 3/84          1             AE               2             1           M,F,T
5                11/84          1             ED               1.5           1           N4,F,T
6                 4/86          3      EP, AR(C), EC(C)        6             2           M,F,T
7                11/86          3        EP, AE(CC, LS         3             3            N,T
8                 2/87          2          EP, AR              1.5           3            M,F
9                 8/87          2          EP, AECC)           I            n/a Cd)
10             11-12/87          2          EP, AR              6             3            N,F
11                 5/88          2          EP, AECC)           3.5           2            M.F
12                 9/88          3      EP, AE(C), LS(C)        3            n/a Cd)
13               1-2/89          2          EP, ARtC)           6             2            M,F
14                 7/89          2          EP, ARtC)           2             2            N,F
TOTAL                                                    38
(a) SPECIALIZATION                   (b) PERFORMAhCE STATUS            Cc) TYPE OF PROBLEM
.....................               ..................                ............................ .......
AE  = AGRICULTURAL EDUCATOR               1 * Problem-free or              F = Financial
ED  a EDUCATOR                                minor problems               M a Managerial
EC  = ECONOMIST                          2 a Moder3te problems             T a Technical
AR  = ARCHITECT                           3 * Major problems               0 a Other
LSB     LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST
CC) = CONSULTANT
EP a EDUCATION PLANNER
Cd) n/a a No Form 590 prepared.
b:nigpor



