Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                FILE COPY
Report No. P-3056-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
May 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   CFAF
US$ 1.00         =   CFAF 210
MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =   3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)           10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)           -   0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)  =   0.39 square mile
1 hectare                  =   2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)           =   2,20 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
GLOSSARY/GLOSSAIRE
ADB       African Development Bank               Banque africaine de developpement
CFJA      Young Farmer Training Center           Centre de formation des jeunes
agriculteurs
COTEDEP   Provincial Development Committee       Comite technique departemental
CPR       Rural Improvement Center               Centre de promotion rurale
EAATEN    Animal Production Technicians          Ecole des assistants et agents
School                                 techniques de l'elevage
ECE       Animal Production Training             Ecole des cadres de 1'elevage
School
EDF       European Development Fund              Fonds Europeen de developpement
ENA       National School of Administration    Ecole nationale d'administration
ESA       University School of Agriculture       Ecole superieure d'agronomie
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization    Organisaition mondiale pour l'agri-
culture et l'alimentation
INDRAP    National Institute of Education        Institut national de documentation
de recherche et d-animation
pedagogique
INRAN     National Agricultural Research         Institut national de la recherche
Institute                             agronomique
IPDR      Rural Development Training             Institut pratique pour le develop-
Institute                             pement rural
MDR       Ministry of Rural Development          Ministere du developpement rural
MEN       Ministry of National Education         Ministere de leducation nationale
MES       Ministry of Higher Education and       Ministere d 1'education superieure
Research                               et de la recherche
MFP       Ministry of Civil Service and Labor  Ministere de la fonction publique
et du travail
UNDP      United Nations Development             Programme des Nations Unies pour
Programme                              le developpement



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Niger
Amount:              Special Drawing Rights 17.3 Million (US$21.5 Million)
Terms:               Standard
Project              The project comprises a five-year program to improve
Description:       educational planning and the preparation of education
projects, planning for civil service upgrading and the
training of rural development workers. It includes (a)
technical assistance and fellowships to assist in educa-
tional planning and project preparation; (b) technical
assistance to the Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor
to establish a training directorate, review the needs for
upgrading and formulate pilot upgrading programs for the
public administration; (c) the final phase of expansion
and upgrading of an agricultural technician training
institute at Kolo; (d) the development of a new animal
production training school at Kolo; and (e) technical
assistance and operating costs for project management.
Project Risks:       Project risks relate primarily to the implementation
of the agricultural and animal production technician
training and include possible: (a) implementation
delays; (b) inefficiencies in the proposed training
programs; and (c) factors affecting the efficient
field work of graduates from the project institutions.
Measures to minimize risks are included in the project.
Estimated Cost: 1/
Local    Foreign    Total
----(US$s million)-----
Educational Planning                      0.0       0.4        0.4
Public Administration                      -        0.1        0.1
Agricultural Technician Training          3.6       4.6        8.2
Animal Production Training                4.9       6.9       11.8
Project Management                        0.1       0.4        0.5
Base Cost                              8.6      12.4       21.0
Physical Contingencies                    0.8       0.9        1.7
Expected Price Increases                  1.5       2.8        4.3
TOTAL                                10.9       16.1       27.0
1/   Project costs are expressed net of taxes, since Government will exempt
the project from import duties and identifiable taxes.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                  Local   Foreign   Total
IDA             7.6       13.9     21.5
UNDP            0.3        2.2      2.5
Government      3.0         -       3.0
TOTAL    10.9       16.1      27.0
Estimated
Disbursements:  Fiscal Year        Annual       Cumulative
- ------------US$ Million----------
1982            0.9            0.9
1983            5.6            6.5
1984           11.4           17.9
1985            1.3           19.2
1986            2.1           21.3
1987            0.1           21.4
1988            0.1           21.5
Appraisal Report: No. 3047-NIR
Map: IBRD 15050



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of Special Drawing Rights 17.3 million (US$21.5
million) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Niger to help finance a
proposed education project. The United Nations Development Program would
also contribute US$2.5 million to the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum:  Niger" (RN 1109a-NIR) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. An economic updating
mission also visited Niger in February 1981, and the main findings of the
mission are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Annex I contains
country data.
Background
3.        Until recently, Niger was a resource-poor country.  Consumption
as a proportion of GDP was high and sometimes in excess of domestic produc-
tion. Accordingly, gross domestic savings were very low or negative, and
most investment, modest at 12 percent of GDP, was financed by foreign savings.
This trend was reversed in recent years thanks to rapidly growing uranium
revenues: in 1979, uranium mining accounted for 19 percent of GDP, about 80
percent of total export earnings, and 43 of government revenue. As a result,
gross domestic savings, which represented 9 percent of GDP in 1975 grew to 14
percent of GDP in 1979, while the country-s resource gap decreased substan-
tially from 14 percent in 1975 to less than 8.5 percent of GDP in 1979.
Despite its rapid gains from the uranium sector, Niger, with a per capita GDP
of about US$280 in 1979 remains among the 29 least developed countries of the
United Nations.
4.        Despite the possibility of mobilizing domestic savings, however,
Niger continues to face a number of formidable natural, economic, and human
constraints to development which will have to be overcome or alleviated
to ensure self-sustained economic growth in the long-run. First, many Govern-
ment institutions are still in an embryonic state of development. Second,
four fifths of the country is desert or semi-desert and in the rest, which
supports about 80 percent of the population, soil fertility is low and pro-
bably declining. In addition, rainfall is often irregular or inadequate and



-2-
the costs of irrigation schemes are unusually high. Third, the country-s
land-locked position induces high transport costs and sometimes serious
delays in the delivery of imports. Finally, Niger has a primary school
enrollment rate of only about 17 percent, which is one of the lowest rates in
the world and has led to acute shortages of literate and qualified personnel
at all levels and in many fields in the economy. These problems are now being
compounded by the fact that uranium revenues are sharply declining as a result
of a drop in uranium prices, which is not expected to correct itself much
before the end of the decade. With an ambitious investment program predicated
on maintenance of the real prices and increasing production, the five-fold
drop in uranium revenues to less than 10 percent of total budget receipts
foreseen for 1981 is already being felt in increasing budgetary stringency,
and growing reliance on foreign borrowings, particularly commercial.
Economic Growth
5.        Real GDP grew at 3 percent per year during the six-year period
1972-78, while population grew at 2.7 percent. Between 1972 and 1975, real
GDP recorded negative growth, mainly as a result of severe drought-induced
setbacks in agriculture and livestock production, compounded by the result-
ing recession in agro-industries. In the subsequent three years (1976-78),
the economy picked up considerably to achieve an annual growth rate of over
9 percent; however, 1979 and 1980 show some decline, moving to 7.5 percent
in 1979 and 6 percent in 1980. This reflects the impact of uranium mining
and related activities such as transport and construction, on the economy.
Production of uranium concentrates increased rapidly from some 400 tons to
about 2,000 tons between 1971 and 1978, while its export prices almost quin-
tupled from US$20/kg to US$98/kg. However, with prices falling to about
US$62/kg in 1981 after remaining virtually constant in 1978-80, the con-
straining effects are likely to limit GDP growth to 4 percent or less.
Despite the vicissitudes in the uranium sector, growth in traditional sec-
tors, in particular agriculture and agro-industry, has been modest.
Public Finance
6.        Over the last seven years, sound fiscal management, with the help
of rapidly rising revenues from uranium mining, had enabled the Government
to generate substantial current budgetary surplus. This amounted to about
CFAF 9.2 and 14.1 billion in FY76/77 and FY77/78 respectively. Results for
1978/79 show a further improvement to about CFAF 24 billion. These surpluses
permitted rapid growth of capital expenditures in absolute as well as in
relative terms from CFAF 2.6 billion in FY75/76 (about 10 percent of total
budgetary expenditures) to CFAF 14 billion in FY77/78 (32 percent) and CFAF
19 billion in 1978/79. As a result, the contribution of budgetary savings to
total public investment increased from 10 percent in FY70/71 to more than 28
percent in FY78/79. As a result of the drop in prices, however, the budget-
ary savings ratio is likely once again to drop below 10 percent. On the
other hand, the tax base has been undergoing significant changes in recent
years. First, Government revenue relies heavily upon uranium mining, which
accounted for about 30 percent of total revenue in FY77/78. Second, in an
attempt to ease the tax burden of low-income groups, a number of measures were
introduced:  livestock head taxes were abolished in FY74/75 following the 1973



drought, the head tax levied on the population aged 14 years and over was
completely abolished in FY77/78, and income taxes on monthly salaries below
CFAF 15,000 were eliminated beginning FY77/78. The foregone revenues from
those sources are estimated at about CFAF 4 billion. These fiscal measures
reflect Government's increasing concern with the problems of social equity and
particularly the fate of the rural poor. However, at a time of considerable
budgetary stringency imposed by the drop in uranium prices, the results in
question are making the Government's overall budgetary situation even more
difficult.
7.        The annual rate of inflation averaged 8 percent over the period
1972-75, but rose to over 20 percent in 1976 and 1977. Due to the normal
harvests in 1977/78, inflation as measured by the implicit GDP deflator
levelled off somewhat in 1978 at an annual rate of 12 percent, where it has
remained since. Three major factors contributing to recent inflation include
the supply constraint in basic commodities, especially in food, rising prices
for imported goods, and rapid monetary expansion.
Balance of Payments
8.        In spite of the rapid increase in export earnings from uranium,
Niger's balance of payments continues to be characterized by a trade deficit:
the imports required for operating the economy as well as for new capital
formation including development of new uranium mining still exceed foreign
excchange earnings. This trade deficit was, however, more than compensated by
the inflow of foreign private and public capital so that the overall balance
of payments showed a substantial surplus until 1978. However, estimates indi-
cate an overall deficit of about US$2.5 million in 1979, the first in some
years. The fall in uranium prices is likely to bring about a considerable
reduction in total earnings in 1981 and beyond, a substantial part of which
may be compensated for by increased commercial borrowings and a higher future
debt service burden. In fact, the Government is already undertaking some
commercial borrowing to finance Plan investments.
Development Planning
9.        The Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-1983, was only recently pub-
lished and identifies Niger's basic objectives as: (a) the modernization
of agriculture and livestock production; (b) a high rate of economic growth
spurred by investments in mining, industry, transportation and communica-
tions; (c) human resources development; and (d) a gradual reduction of
regional disparities in income. On an annual basis, the public investment
target implies an increase of 220 percent over the 1976-78 Plan. About 30
percent of public investments over the Plan period will be allocated to rural
development, 30 percent to mining, energy and industry, 22 percent to educa-
tion and health, and 18 percent to transportation and communications. The
total investment target of the Plan is US$3.5 billion in 1979 prices with
US$1.8 billion for public investment. Implementation of 1976-78 Plan fell far
short of its targets, largely due to a limited absorptive capacity and diffi-
culties in project preparation, caused primarily by manpower constraints.
These are likely to continue being a major barrier to the implementation of
the new Plan. In addition, the downward trend in uranium prices can be



expected to set further limitations on plan implementation; 42 percent of
public investments in the Plan are set out for Government financing.
Foreign Aid
10.       Between 1971 and 1977 Niger's total recorded net in-flow of
resources from DAC countries and multilateral agencies averaged about US$80
million annually, of which 95 percent was on concessionary terms. The Euro-
pean Development Fund (FED), France, Germany and Canada remain Niger's major
aid donors, although recently Arab oil-producing countries have increased
their lending programs to Niger. However, in the two year period between
1978 and 1980 external public debt more than doubled, rising from about
US$400 billion to US$855 million at end 1980, with indications that the
same pace of borrowing is continuing into 1981. About 25 percent of new
commitments originated from private banks and suppliers. Given the short
grace periods and high interest rates now prevailing, debt-servicing obliga-
tions of the government doubled over previous year in FY1980/81, and now
account for 14 percent of budget revenues.
11.       Total debt outstanding increased by US$332 million during 1980;
only US$355 million of the US$885 total had been disbursed by the end of 1980.
Bilateral loans (disbursed and undisbursed), 53 percent of which were received
from France, were only US$290 million of the 1980 total. Multilateral loans
amounted to US$312 billion, US$138.1 million of which represented IDA credits
(16 percent of overall indebtedness). The remainder US$283 billion, was
divided almost equally between suppliers' credits and banks, and given the
heavy interest rates prevailing on these loans, overall debt service, now only
US$21 million, will rise nearly five-fold to US$98.8 million in 1983, which,
if uranium prices fail to rise, will exceed 20 percent of exports as compared
with 3.3 percent in 1979.
12.       Perhaps the major issue which Niger faces is how to scale down its
ambitious 1979-83 Plan to expenditure levels which are consistent with the
sharply reduced revenue offtake from the uranium sector, where net government
receipts fell from CFAF 24 billion in 1980 to CFAF 5 billion in 1981, rather
than growing as expected. In light of this situation, the Bank is discussing
with the Government the need to tailor its investment plan to a level consis-
tent with its future resources and debt service capacity. Whatever the evolu-
tion of these discussions, it is abundantly clear that Niger continues to face
substantial physical and human constraints, particularly with a literacy rate
of 8 percent, near the lowest in the world. Given a resource situation with
little promise for the next five to ten years, the extremely low level of
development and the largely unmet basic needs of the population, Niger will
continue to require concessionary, as well as local cost, financing for some
time to come.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
13.       Eighteen IDA credits, including two supplementary credits, have so
far been approved for Niger totalling US$136.7 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of these credits as of February 28, 1981 and notes on the
execution of on-going projects. Past Bank Group lending was heavily con-
centrated on transport, communications and rural development. Of the eigh-
teen projects approved to date, five aimed at expanding and upgrading the
domestic road network, one provided for improvement and extension of existing
facilities at Niamey international airport, and one for the installation of a
more reliable telecommunications system. The Association's lending to date
for the rural sector includes seven projects for drought relief, rural
development, forestry, irrigation and livestock. There has been no previous
Bank Group lending for education in Niger, although projects in other sectors
have included important project-related training components. Differences
between Government and the Bank concerning priorities for investment in the
mid-1970's prevented progress toward the financing of an education project
until recently.
14.       In keeping with Niger's overall development strategy, future
Bank Group lending will continue efforts in the rural and transport sectors,
but also increasingly support Government efforts to diversify the economic
structure, expand modern sector employment, and manpower requirements. We
will also continue to advise Government on policy issues and options through
our economic and sector work.
15.       To address objectives in education, the Bank Group will provide
support over the long-term for (a) strengthening the ministries responsible
for planning and managing education and training; (b) expanding the facilities
for primary education; (c) upgrading and expanding the training of teachers in
both general and vocational fields; and (d) developing key vocational, techni-
cal and professional education and training programs. The Bank Group will
also assist in addressing manpower issues by including project-related and
sector-related training in all Bank-assisted projects for Niger.
16.       In agriculture, Bank Group lending supports Government's generally
sound strategy, namely regional projects aimed at increasing production,
gradual development of the country's irrigation potential, provision of
services to pastoralists, and crop-livestock integration. Due to the severity
of the natural constraints and the present state of technical knowledge,
agricultural and livestock development in Niger will be slow and difficult.
However, experience with ongoing projects has demonstrated that potential does
exist, and can be realized with the provision of appropriate inputs and
extension services. In transport, we plan to place emphasis on assistance for
the construction of a network of secondary and access roads to support the
Government's agricultural program while continuing our support for the mainte-
nance of the existing infrastructure; a feeder roads project approved in
FY79 marks a first step towards this objective. The Bank is also evalu-
ating a technical assistance project which would consist of feasibility
studies for priority projects, followed by the coordination and monitoring of
project activities by line ministries, strengthening Niger's external debt
management system.



-6-
PART III - KEY HUMAN RESOURCES AREAS
General Education
17.       The level of human resources development in Niger is among the
lowest in the world. Only 8 percent of the population are literate and
enrollment ratios for the formal education system are about 17 percent at
the primary level, 2 percent at the secondary level, and a negligible percen-
tage at the tertiary level. These ratios, which are similar to corresponding
ratios for Chad and Upper Volta, are also among the lowest in the world. In
addition, the provision of information and services to the rural population is
limited by a shortage of extension workers. Major nonformal programs, such as
functional literacy and farmer training, reached fewer than one out of every
100 rural families in 1976/77. Thus, at present the vast majority of Nigeriens
have no access to education and training programs of any kind. The limited
education base is a major constraint to development, and it has led to acute
shortages of managerial, technical, skilled and literate manpower at all
levels.
18.       The Ministry of National Education (MEN) is responsible for primary
and secondary education, and the Ministry of Higher Education and Research
(MES) is responsible for university education and operation of the National
Agricultural Research Institute (INRAN).  The National Institute of Education
(INDRAP) plays an important role in curriculum development, in-service teacher
training, educational broadcasting, development of learning materials, and
project identification and preparation.
19.       The Government has made significant efforts to expand education
during recent years and enrollments have been increasing at an average annual
rate of 10 percent at the primary and 15 percent at the secondary levels.
However, with inadequate planning, a limited education base and rapid popula-
tion growth, these efforts have led to only modest progress in resolving
major issues confronting the sector, which include:
(a) a lack of qualified local staff for planning and administra-
tion of education and training programs; presently, more
than 50 percent of such staff are expatriates;
(b) limited and unequal access to education and training, espe-
cially for the rural population and for women; the proportion
of girls is 35 percent at the primary level, 29 percent at
the secondary level and 14 percent at the tertiary level;
(c) low internal efficiency; only about 50 percent of pupils
beginning primary school complete the course;



- 7 -
(d)  a teaching corps which is overwhelmingly untrained at the
primary level and predominantly expatriate at the secondary
and tertiary levels; in 1976, 50 percent of the primary
teachers had a primary school leaving certificate as their
highest qualification, and 70 percent of the secondary
teachers were expatriates; and
(e)  inability of the education system to produce adequate numbers
of literate, skilled and educated Nigeriens to meet priority
manpower requirements.
These issues have been exacerbated by insufficient recurrent financing
of education, a result, not so much of difficulty to mobilize the necessary
funds, but rather of weak financial planning. Government is now recognizing
the need to take into account the recurrent cost implications in developing
education.
20.       The development of human resources has a high priority in the
Five-Year Development Plan, which sets out three long-term objectives: (a)
basic education for all school-age children, (b) an education and training
system adapted to the country's development needs, and (c) the production of
skilled and educated manpower. During the Plan period the Government
proposes in particular to: (a) increase the primary school enrollment ratio
from 17 percent to 25 percent and the transition rate from primary to
secondary school from 40 percent to 50 percent; (b) strengthen the Univer-
sity of Niamey, particularly the departments concerned with agriculture,
forestry, animal production, education, law, business, and science; and (c)
train people to meet the most immediate requirements for skilled manpower in
agriculture, animal production, mining, communications and transportation.
The Government will seek to improve the quality of education by expanding
the output of teaching staff, recruiting teachers at a higher educational
level, upgrading primary teacher training and intensifying in-service
teacher training. It will also strengthen the staff of the institutions
responsible for education and expand the school inspectorate system and
attempt to upgrade educational facilities, equipment and materials.
It will aim at including training components in all development projects.
21.       The Government's long-term educational development objectives
and the strategy for achieving them appear sound. The strategy addresses the
three most important sectoral issues: access, quality, and priority manpower
requirements. However, the Government has not yet defined specific means for
realizing its objectives. The next step in the planning process, therefore,
is to formulate specific and well-prepared programs and projects which could
be suitable for both local and international financing. As the Government's
educational planning bodies are not sufficiently staffed to do this, the Gov-
ernment has recently requested the UNDF to finance one man-year of technical
assistance and several man-years of fellowships for educational planning. To
complement UNDP-financed assistance the Government has asked the Bank Group to
finance additional technical assistance for educational planning and project
preparation, and fellowships in educational planning and school mapping.



-8
The Public Administration
22.         The public administration faces a number of issues, including
overly centralized decision-making, inconsistent personnel management proce-
dures, a lack of suitably trained civil servants, and shortages of qualified
candidates for the civil service. Less than 10 percent of Nigerien civil
service personnel have a baccalaureate degree or higher qualifications and
more than 50 percent have only a primary school-leaving certificate as their
highest qualification.
23.        The Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor (MFP) is responsible
for the management of the civil service. With the assistance of UNDP-financed
specialists, the Government is trying to (a) improve both pre-service and
in-service training for civil servants, (b) improve the structures and proce-
dures of the MFP, (c) harmonize personnel management practices across the
public sector, (d) improve public service regulations and (e) mechanize
personnel management. The training functions of the MFP are carried out
primarily through the National School of Administration (ENA).
24.        The Government is also trying to establish a systematic program for
on-the-job upgrading of civil servants. The MFP, has recently begun a series
of upgrading seminars on a pilot basis. The Government plans to further
develop the upgrading program through establishing a training directorate in
the MFP which will define general policies and programs, initiate training
programs, and prepare future upgrading projects. The Government has asked the
Bank Group for technical assistance for this.
Agricultural Education and Training
25.        Background  Technical and administrative weaknesses in the extension
and research services have contributed to slow agricultural development in
recent years. In the livestock sector, productivity levels are modest, and
there is a need to improve the management of animal production and technical
advice and inputs for pastoralists. The lack of well-qualified middle-level
cadres was a major constraint to the successful implementation of agriculture
and animal production projects during the 3-year Interim Plan, (1976-1978).
A shortage of this staff was also a major barrier to the implementation of the
Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 207-NIR), as noted in the Project Performance
Audit Report (SECM 78-424, dated May 12, 1978).
26.        Manpower Development for Agriculture and Animal Production.  Agricul-
turalists in senior supervisory positions are trained at the University School
of Agriculture (ESA) in Niamey, with the final year undertaken overseas.
Veterinarians are trained abroad. Field managerial and senior extension staff
for both agriculture and animal husbandry are trained at the ESA. Technicians,
assistant technicians and extension agents are trained in agriculture and
related fields at the Rural Development Training Institute (IPDR) in Kolo, and
in animal production at the Animal Production Technicians School (EAATEN) in
Niamey. Field extension staff and auxiliaries working in direct contact with
farmers receive short periods of on-the-job training in specific topics related
to their work. There are also a number of non-formal training institutions,
including rural youth centers (CFJAs) and Rural Improvement Centers (CPRs) for



- 9 -
the training of young farmers and their wives. The Maradi Rural Develop-
ment Projects (Cr. 608-NIR and 1026-NIR) are supporting these centers.
27.       The ESA and universities overseas are adequately addressing the
requirements for professional and managerial manpower. Manpower needs
at the direct contact extension level are dealt with under IDA-financed
and other agricultural and livestock projects. The main staffing gap and the
crucial manpower constraint is for technicians and extension agents at the
middle level. The IPDR is the only middle-level agricultural training center
in the country. At present IPDR trains 75 extension agents and 35 assistant
technicians per year, which is considerably less than the 140 extension agents
and 70 technicians per year which are estimated to be required to meet the
manpower requirements of ongoing and planned investments in agricultural-
related activities. In addition, there is a need for qualitative improvement
of the training programs. At present there is little student involvement in
field activities, imprecise formulation of teaching objectives, poorly se-
quenced learning units, and little or no evaluation of teaching effectiveness.
As the enrollment of the IPDR has grown, these weaknesses have been exacer-
bated by a lack of qualified and experienced teaching personnel, the poor
state of repair and insufficient capacity of many of the buildings, and
inadequate equipment. Therefore, the IPDR is being expanded and upgraded
through an ongoing development program which includes: (a) an increase in
capacity to 450 students which will produce an annual output of 100 extension
agents and 50 technicians; (b) the phasing out of training for assistant
technicians and the introduction of separate training programs for extension
agents and fully qualified technicians; (c) improvements in the content and
the methods of instruction and the creation of a unit for producing instruc-
tional materials; and (d) an increase in the relationship between field work
and class work. The Government has received a considerable amount of assis-
tance in implementing this program. A Technical Consultative Committee under
the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR), and including agricultural educators
from Algeria, the Netherlands, the United States and Niger, is advising on
management, curricula and staff and student recruitment. An ad hoc Nigerien
coordinating committee, representing the agencies hiring IPDR graduates, is
helping to address the Technical Committee's recommendations. Switzerland,
Belgium, the EDF, the Netherlands and the United States are financing various
parts of the IPDR development program. The major gaps in completing the
program are technical assistance for management, additional fellowships for
staff development, development of the school farm, and renovation and con-
struction of staff houses, dormitories, and additional communal and academic
facilities. The proposed project would address these need.
28.       With regard to middle-level animal production personnel, the
EAATEN has been training over the past five years an average of 15 Nigerien
extension agents and 15 Nigerien assistant technicians each year. The pres-
ent output of the EAATEN is significantly less than the estimated average
annual requirements until 1983, which are 25 fully qualified technicians and
50 extension agents. In addition to the need for increased output of middle-
level personnel, there is, as in the case of IPDR, a need for qualitative
improvements in the training programs. Many of the weaknesses noted for IPDR
also apply to EAATEN, particularly the lack of field work and the excessive



- 10 -
concentration in the curriculum on animal disease control. Moreover, the
school is situated in the center of Niamey on a site which does not allow for
expansion, is surrounded by urban housing, and isolated from examples of the
animal husbandry practiced over most of the country and is seriously over-
crowded. The UNDP and the FAO have assisted the Government in formulating a
program to upgrade the teaching staff of the EAATEN, improve the EAATEN curri-
culum, upgrade the level of technician training, and increase the annual out-
put of middle-level staff to 50 extension agents and 25 technicians. Under
this program, a new school, Ecole des Cadres de l'Elevage (ECE), would be
constructed at Kolo, and five branches for field training of students will be
established in rural areas, in association with livestock development proj-
ects. The proposed project would support this effort.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       An IDA mission identified the project in July, 1978, and it was
appraised in December, 1979. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held
in Niamey from February 24 to February 26, 1981. The Niger delegation was
led by Mr. Brah Mahamane, Minister of Plan. Annex III contains supplementary
project data. The Staff Appraisal Report "Niger - Education Project"
No. 3047-NIR is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
30.       The proposed project would address three critical human resource
constraints: (a) the limited development of the formal education system;
(b) shortages of qualified civil service personnel; and (c) shortages of
middle-level technicians and extension workers in agriculture and animal
production. The project would be implemented over the 1981-87 period and
would comprise the following components:
(a) Educational Planning and Project Preparation: technical
assistance, fellowships and equipment to assist in educational
planning and project preparation;
(b) The Public Administration: technical assistance to the
Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor to establish a training
directorate, review the needs for upgrading civil service
personnel, formulate and implement pilot upgrading programs,
and prepare upgrading projects;
(c) Agricultural Technician Training: construction, furniture,
equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, fellowships and
initial operating costs for the development of the school farm,
for the final phase of expansion and upgrading of the IPDR,
Kolo;
(d) Animal Production Training: construction, furniture, equipment,
vehicles, technical assistance, fellowships and initial opera-
ting costs for the development of a school farm, for a new
animal production training school to be located in Kolo;



- 11 -
(e) Project Management: technical assistance, equipment and
operating costs for project management.
Educational Planning and Project Preparation
31.       To strengthen educational planning and project preparation, the
project would provide (a) three man-years of technical assistance for a
specialist in educational planning and project preparation, (b) nine man-
months of fellowships to train Nigerien personnel in educational planning and
project preparation, (c) three man-months of fellowships in school-mapping;
(d) two man-years of architectural and educational consultant services for the
preparation of education projects; and (e) equipment and materials for educa-
tion planning and project preparation. The technical assistance personnel
would work at INDRAP in close cooperation with the Ministry of Education's
Planning Unit. The objectives of this work would be to assist the Government
in developing an educational development plan and in identifying and preparing
projects suitable for local and/or international financing. The Government
will submit to IDA for review by December 31, 1982, an interim status report
on the IDA-financed educational planning work and will submit to IDA for
review by July 31, 1984, a final status report on this work (Section 3.04 of
draft Credit Agreement). In view of the Government's desire to appoint an
educational planning specialist as soon as possible, it has asked the UNDP and
UNESCO to finance the services of this specialist for one year beginning in
April 1, 1981.
The Public Administration
32.       The project would provide six man-months of specialist services
to assist the Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor to establish a train-
ing directorate, to review the needs for upgrading middle and upper-level
personnel, particularly civil servants, to formulate and implement pilot
upgrading programs, and to prepare future upgrading projects. The work of
this specialist, would complement the work of UNDP-financed specialists who
are helping the Government to review civil service structures, procedures and
training. It would also establish a framework for carrying out additional
training activities through the proposed technical assistance project. The
Government will submit to IDA for review by September 30, 1982, a summary
report on the project-financed public administration component (Section 3.05
of draft Credit Agreement).
Agricultural Technician Training (IPDR)
33.       The project would include construction, furniture, equipment,
vehicles, technical assistance and fellowships to complete the ongoing multi-
donor program of upgrading and expansion of the IPDR (para. 27).   It would
add 160 dormitory places to the 240 existing places and to 50 places being
financed by USAID, thus providing for a total capacity of 450. It would
renovate nineteen staff houses, construct 24 new staff housing units, a new
technical teaching block and technical drawing room, and expand an existing
multi-purpose hall, dining room and recreational facilities. A 45-hectare
teaching farm would be improved. The project would also include initial
operating costs over three years to develop new farmland at the school



- 12 -
farm, which will be operated on a commercial basis. In line with the Govern-
ment's efforts at increased participation for women in the rural development
process, 40 of the 160 new dormitory places would be for women. IPDR staff
development would be supported by 18 man-years of fellowships for future
teaching staff in specialized areas of the curricula, including land utiliza-
tion, economics, seed selection, cooperation, animal health, and fish culture.
One-half man-year of consultant services would help plan and implement four
short annual in-service training courses in basic sciences and mathematics to
help newly appointed Nigerien staff teaching these subjects to adapt the
content and method of their instruction to the needs of an agricultural
training institute. The IPDR does not have a sufficient number of administra-
tive staff to manage the school adequately at full development and its new
status has not yet been formalized by statute. IDA has already approved the
draft of an appropriate decree and a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed credit is that the Government has issued a decree setting out an organi-
zational structure and financial and accounting system apropriate to the
school and acceptable to IDA (Section 6.01(b), draft Credit Agreement). In
addition, the Government will appoint by September 30, 1981, an Assistant
Director and a Chief Accountant to help manage the upgraded IPDR (Section 4.03
draft Credit Agreement). The project would include four man-years of special-
ist services to assist the Director of the IPDR to introduce and implement the
new organizational and financial structure. The proposed capacity and annual
output (100 extension agents and 50 technicians) of the school, designed to
meet about 70 percent of the short-term requirement, is based on manpower
projections, space available at the IPDR site and stock of extension agents
and technicians which will be available after the school is developed. The
Government will later determine whether to expand the output.
Animal Production Technician Training
34.       The project would include construction, furniture, equipment and
vehicles for a new Animal Production Training School (ECE), to be located in
Kolo (para. 28). It would have a capacity of 204 providing boarding facili-
ties for the total capacity of which 20 would be for women. The project would
also construct 20 staff houses and one guest quarters. The curricula pres-
ently used at the EAATEN would be substantially revised and the heavy bias
toward veterinary medicine would be changed: at least one-third of the avail-
able teaching time would be allocated to animal husbandry and pasture manage-
ment. The four-year technician training course would also include the intro-
duction of new subject matter such as rural building techniques, the economy
and sociology of pasture management, the use of local languages, vehicle and
cold-storage operation and maintenance, solar energy applications, and methods
of extension. The courses in building techniques, vehicle maintenance,
languages and solar energy would be similar to courses at the IPDR and would
generally be taught by the same staff with a greater orientation at the ECE
toward animal production work. The school would give special attention to
field work. For this purpose the project would provide tents at Tahoua, a
Tuareg grazing unit, at Zinder, a Peul grazing unit, and at a ranch and
pasture management center in Ekrafane. The students would also undertake
field work at the fattening station at Tiaguirire and the multiplication



- 13 -
center at Toukounous. The project would also provide the initial operating
costs for three years for the development of a school farm, to be operated on
a commercial basis. The project would provide (a) 17 man-years of technical
assistance for the introduction of new curricula, the establishment and
implementation of field work and the teaching of new subject matter in animal
production and pasture management; and (b) nine man-years of fellowships for
overseas training of Nigerien teaching staff. In addition, the basic sciences
and mathematics specialists who will work with the staff of the IPDR (para.
33) will also work for one half man-year with the staff of the ECE. IDA has
already approved the draft of an appropriate decree and it is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit that the Government has issued a
decree setting out an organizational structure and a financing and accounting
system appropriate to the school and acceptable to IDA (Section 6.01 (a) draft
Credit Agreement). The ECE will be smaller and less complex than IPDR and the
EAATEN staff should be able to administer the ECE without any project-financed
assistance for school administration. Its capacity and output have been based
on the same elements as for IPDR.
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
35.       The IDA credit would finance a total of 31.5 man-years of technical
assistance at an estimated net-of-tax cost of US$7,500 per man-month, including
salaries, allowances and overhead. Under the project, the Government would
employ only specialists whose qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment are acceptable to IDA. The credit would also finance
28 man-years of fellowships. The Government will award fellowships under the
project only to suitably qualified persons and will prepare and submit to IDA
for review by September 30, 1981, a list of candidates and their proposed
training programs (Section 3.06 draft Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
36.       The Director of INDRAP, working with the Ministry of National Educa-
tion, and assisted by the IDA-financed specialist in educational planning,
would administer the educational planning component. The head of the training
directorate of the MFP would be responsible for the public administration com-
ponent. The Minister of Rural Development has appointed the Chief of his
Training Bureau to be responsible for implementation of the IPDR and ECE com-
ponents of the project. fie would be supported by a Nigerien assistant accoun-
tant. A project-financed specialist would assist the Chief of the Training
Bureau in implemention and would have particular responsibility for maintaining
the project accounts and organizing procurement. Given the importance of
having local staff available to complete preparation and initiate implementa-
tion, it is a condition of effectiveness that the Government has employed in
its Ministry of Rural Development a Project Director and an Assistant Project
Accountant (Section 6.01 (c), draft Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
Evaluation
37.       The Government would prepare and submit to IDA for review status
reports on the educational planning and civil service upgrading components
(paras. 31 and 32). The Technical Consultative Committee (para. 27) has
responsibility for the evaluation of the IPDR development program and makes
regular recommendations on changes needed in policy and implementation of the
various donor contributions. Long-term evaluation of IPDR development would
be carried out primarily under the UNDP/FAO review system, since the UNDP/FAO
are coordinating the overall IPDR development program. The MDR's Central
Evaluation Unit, which would be partially financed under the ongoing second
Maradi Rural Development Project, would carry out additional evaluation of
both the IPDR and the ECE. The Government would submit to IDA for review
within four months of the end of each calendar year any evaluation reports
written during that year concerning the IPDR and the ECE (Section 3.10, draft
Credit Agreement). The Government would also prepare and submit to IDA for
review within six months of the Closing Date, a final evaluation report on the
overall project (Section 3.06 (d), draft Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
38.       Total project costs are estimated at US$27.0 million, net of taxes.
The foreign exchange component would be US$16.1 million. The proposed IDA
credit of SDR 17.3 million (US$21.5 million) would finance 80 percent of the
net of tax foreign exchange costs of US$16.1 million and 50 percent of the
local net of tax costs of US$10.9 million. The Government would finance
US$3.0 million, equal to 11 percent of the total net of tax project costs and
UNDP would finance project activities estimated at US$2.5 million. Project
costs and the proposed financing plan are summarized in the Credit and Project
Summary. As indicated in Part I, current economic circumstances - in particu-
lar the sharp and unexpected drop in uranium revenues - justify the financing
of local costs.
Procurement
39.       Civil works, valued at US$18.1 million, and furniture and equipment,
valued at US$2.6 million, would be procured on the basis of ICB in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Items of furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped
in packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent, or which are not suitable for
ICB, would be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to IDA; or, for items below US$10,000 for which potential suppliers
are limited, by inviting quotations from at least three reliable suppliers.
The total value of items thus procured should not exceed US$200,000. Domestic
contractors would be given a preference of 7-1/2 percent in the evaluation of
bids for civil works. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would
be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of competing
imports or the total applicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever is
lower.



- 15 -
Disbursement
40.       The proceeds from the IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 85 percent of expenditures for civil works; (b) 90 percent of expenditures
for professional fees; (c) 90 percent of expenditures for furniture; (d) 90
percent of expenditures for equipment; (e) 100 percent of expenditures for
technical assistance; (f) 100 percent of expenditures for fellowships; and (g)
90 percent of expenditures for operating costs for project management and
startup of the IPDR and ECE school farms. All disbursements from the credit
account would be fully documented except for local staff salaries and other
operating expenses under (g) which would be against certified statements of
expenditure, the documentation for which would not be submitted but would be
held by the MDR for review by IDA supervision missions. An advance of
US$200,000 from the Project Preparation Facility was made to prepare the proj-
ect during 1979 and a further advance of US$500,000 was granted to continue
project preparation until effectiveness. Both advances will be refunded upon
effeciveness of the credit (Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
41.       INDRAP, the MFP, and the MDR would maintain separate accounts for
the project, including separate accounts for certified statements of expendi-
ture and all accounts would be audited annually. Accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the accounts and audit reports
would be submitted to the IDA for review within four months of the close of
the Government's fiscal year (Sections 4.01 and 4.02, of the draft Credit
Agreement).
Benefits
42.       The educational planning and project preparation component would
promote a review of education and training needs, the formulation of programs
to meet these needs, and a more efficient use of funds allocated to education
and training. The efforts under the project at civil service upgrading would
be a first step in a long-term effort to improve the quality of the public
service and the efficiency with which Government funds are allocated and
expended.
43.       The main components of the project concern training in agriculture
and animal production. They address some of Niger's most important manpower
requirements and will form an essential part of the ongoing program to improve
agricultural training. The proposed investments in the IPDR and the ECE would
address critical shortages of middle-level technicians and extension workers,
would be on essential complement to other investments in rural areas, and
would contribute to improved implementation of rural development projects and
an increase in productivity and production in rural areas.
Risks
44.       The educational planning and project preparation and the public
administration components should pose no implementation problems. Although
minor, and taken into account in the project design, three kinds of risks



- 16 -
that could affect the overall success of the agricultural and animal produc-
tion technician training components can be identified: those which might
(a) impede timely implementation, (b) affect the efficiency of the training
to be provided, or (c) limit the effective field work of graduates of the
project institutions. The risk of implementation delays have been reduced
by establishing effective management arrangements, by the advanced state of
project preparation and clearly defined administrative and financial struc-
tures for the IPDR and the ECE. Inefficiencies in the proposed training
programs are limited by the fact that considerable care has been taken in the
design of the IPDR educational program and a strong international team has
assisted the Government in developing the IPDR. The ECE program has likewise
been carefully prepared, and the operation of the ECE would benefit from the
experience gained at the IPDR. A related risk is the possible shortage of
competent and motivated teachers for the two institutions. Here, the project's
staff development plan is comprehensive and should allow for the eventual
replacement of all technical assistance personnel by Nigerien staff. The
effectiveness of graduate extension workers can be constrained most directly
by poor motivation, structural weaknesses in the extension services, and
limited recurrent financing for extension work. The improved quality and
relevance of training, coupled with a strong Government commitment to rural
development, as well as improving access to inputs necessary for their work,
should motivate extension staff. While the extension services will continue
to face problems for many years to come, they are being improved under a
variety of rural development projects and by the improved quality of extension
and supervision staff. Recurrent cost financing should not be a problem since
rural development is the Government-s top priority, and the capacity and
output of the schools has been based on a determination of the manpower
requirements of ongoing and planned priority projects and of the Government's
ability to finance the work of the graduates on an annual basis. Furthermore,
the Government gave assurances during negotiations that it will make adequate
budgetary provisions for the operation and maintenance of all project institu-
tions, and that it will submit to IDA for review not later than October 31
each year the proposed budgets for the IPDR and the ECE (Section 4.04 (c) of
the draft Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
45.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Niger and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
46.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness
of the IDA credit are that:
(a) the decrees establishing the IPDR and ECE are in effect; and
(b) a Project Director and an Assistant Project Accountant have
been employed.



- 17 -
47.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
48.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 6, 1981



ANNEX 1
- 18 -                                           -NX 
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
NIGER - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGER                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL          1267.0
ACRICULTURAL    180.0                               MOST RECENT           LOE INCOME            MEDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                110.0      140.0    270.0                 260.0                 868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     5.0        25.0      38.0                80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     2.9        4.0       5.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.8        8.4      11.6                 17.3                  28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      24.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       2.0        3.0       4.0                27.4                   61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    16.0       22.0      28.0                 82.6                 126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44. 7      45.0      46.6                44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                        53.0       52.7      50.9                52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2. 3       2.3       2.5                 2.8                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.3         3.3      2.8                  2.7                   2.7
URBANl                            4. 5       7.0       7. 1                 6.8                   4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    52.0       51.0      51.0                 47.4                  46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0       24.0      22.0                 19.6                  16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.1         3.5      3.5                  3.2                   3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FO0D PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        112.0       96.0      88.0                91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  90.0        89.0     91.0                 90.2                  92.7
PROTEINS (GRA7S{ PER DAY)        59.0       57.0      64.0                 53.0                  53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      18.0        19.0     27.0                 18.4                  15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0       35.0      32.0                 27.7                  21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0       41.0      42.0                 45.3                  50.1
INFANT MORTALITY BATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         212.0         ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOrAL                              ..        20.0     27.0                 23.2                  31.0
URBAN                              ..        37.0     38.0                 58.0                  66.8
RURAL                             ..         19.0     26.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        1.0       7.0                 28.9
URBAN                              ..        10.0     36.0                 67.0
RURAL                             ..          ..       3.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        74048.0/c  57928.0  42605.0               30910.4               14508.2
POPUlLATION PER NURSING PERSON   8451.0/c   7040.0   5162.0                5793.2                3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1954.0      1936.0   1194.0               1198.9                1141.5
URBAN                              ..         ..    173.0
RURAL                              ..         ..    369.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED        10.4/d      34.7/e
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
AVERAGE NLMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCM
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..



- 19 -                                       ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
TABIE 3A
NIGER - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NICER                           REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACFS
- MST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SARARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAPA
EDUCATIUN
ADJUSTID ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PR IMARY:    TOTAL                   5. 0        14.0       17.0                  57. 7                    61. 7
MALE                    7. 0       18. 0        /.                   74.2                    69.2
MIEALE                 3.0          9.0        N/A                  54.1                     51.4
SECON)ARY:   TOTAL                   0. 3         1. 0       2.0                   10. 0                   20.6
MALE                   0. 5         2.0        N/A                   13.7                    29.2
FEF1ALE                0. 1         1.0        N/A                    7. 1                   14. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   4.0            3.0       7.0                     6.8                     7.0
PUPIL-IEACIIER RACIO
PRIMARY                             43.0S/       39.0       41.0                  45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                           17.0         20.0       21.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           1.4          ..        8.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3          1.0        2.1                   3.6                     3P.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         36.0         ..                  31.5                     83. 5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ,,        0.1                    1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.3          0.5        0. 5                   4.6                    24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            0. 2        ..                     ,,                     0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        945.9       1272.6    1569.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     9. 3         9.9       10. 0                 33. 5                    38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               95.2         92.3       91.0                  80.7                     54. 3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   1.4          2.2        3.0                   8. 1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.2         31.9       31.5                   42.2                    38.8
MALE                                  59.3         58.3       57.5                   55.1                    48.4
FEMALE                                 5.9          6.2        6.3                   29.5                    29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5         1.5        1.6                    1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   23.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0
POVERTY TARGET GROIJPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
ULRAN                                 ..           ..      133.0                 138.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       63.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      133.0                 107.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..       53.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEI (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..       3S.0                   66.9
Not available
01ot applicable.
NOTES
/    The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of co-ntries
among the indicatorn depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estinatle, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962;  Ld 1964;  /e 1966.
Most recent estimate of GHP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-20 -                                                                   AMEX 1
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  tItt     !,It tO  dataoedacro sorsgoroyjuedhsos  atotoltatie an  relIle,it shuld  lshente.td that they soo 000 be ine--
oattasllyosoaahlehetasoI  o  the lath of ooedsrdlsed doftat-oo   so   otpsued               h   lfaretoortt          I t  oloto   olI       aa Tedoa55   00
thetoo    us tul0  d--sor tOoor-t  of -,sttde.  iodlo-to toeodt  cod th ..o.             leoctl   eon   tfroo   hdutooee . -
The co  rcsgraot :              sesn   ouoogo) of the  -at) ete                . toutrpod (21 art-otry  group oth  -snuh-t highee                IIsog   bon   h-o ohs too.. ts   grop
ofthoshjotttunooo ootop  for "apIta  Sur.pl  011 toooo"gopoes"Edl  ooeNo;   tiaad Middle Fas" loohosco  -o..oo  of soonog-
sotit-culucal aftbItten) .In tOo rlorottor  roup dat  t..v. ge   o   oplOo .....heod  ioritOet  e sfoeah iod-toOo  std shono. ooph-oIt
tas  half of the cooto    It 0   -tt  Out data too that indloalo-   lioo- h   teseo   oootssogtoldotoependptotheanalablit  o
dosasodSnooeutforn, ttotom    -tohbotorto-d IrrolstTogIv.rIg.. .fnidtooIr-o-                   ooho.t h     oosaero oosro           -df. iooo tulnopooteo
LAND AE ~A (tho....odtq    .Folto                                                                                 hysiltlco- Fopolttioc us~iuso.b Ip oste  at Pratioiog  sty-
Total - Tota  n-toor tores topoistohg  I           d       jndboo-d out-os                    "IL"", quaIfied  toot aIoedolsOt1 a   ovryloE
Asolsatual -outtsos  f ag a t -utua  ara       -nd rMprrI r  euool                    Fplto    5 ..          tser oo  Iopoatho   dti-tded ty  1-hr  fprrito
forotropo, pa-t-,  -ko- and kietho g-oden-o  to lIeo fIlEts; 1917 dus                         aesdfopsgoutnoe,patia    sos   o    sitosti.isoes
GNP PEE CAPITA (0S1) - CONF.. pop -0 0  ei      tse    soo-rot  -k.ht priosa, ra1-                urs,sdFrl   ideBd hy the.1 io boeps sin  sobe  of Pospital beds1
ou'lltd hy same      ... tooto   -rthod on doold lank Atlas  (19770    ot)   96,                oslhet  pahldtisod  bYrimate g -P-ti- sod  otaiod hosPital sad re
1900.Isod -ItS dta.hsilitlatIoo                                                                                   li teeters.    Oopolseotbilost  peeoPsets1 stffd
ENfERYCT  ONSlSTION Ptt CaPlTA -  --1ua  tonmetion ot ro -notl sory(ol                            O   slatoephystio    1aahish ..ts proidiog pr,iotipaly o-etdra1
'It"   "t .. Ig.. ..d hyd--, ..U.      E1 - goars so  so  ttlded.  loEhospitols, ho-eee  ieolode health sad sadial
sod lhatiso, poroEa-  -aurl  ga   t   yr-, ruoloar sod0 gototales-                              toter  It Nrpe      ety  cffed hy a physiotas  (hat hy A m-dir.    etoa
drot-     t   toooso   oltuvaetpoula                           1960  790, and 19097s8e .                 Idwife  o)wioh offer hi-peciet aoousdatiao sod p'td
date,                                                              lImited range of se~~~~~~.dhool fetilitise,   For sttistiosl psoposa  rbc_Ist
FOPULATTOS AND 01DA._STATISTICSO.l hsitasEnaZ                                                                        r  no  hsitl   odsdI- adsnrns                     -soos
Total  nrulaton  Ol-tsarOntillious.  -AO  of July 1; 190h90,sd-p amoio  nor HospItate -- Toptal. ouhe  ofi. admisns0   rdshs
Udaifta.                                                                                       feoc hosptitolsP divti";ided hy the nubho  nf heds.
dfeetdetotooo  uh ea   a  effort  oneparahility of dat                             HOUSING
me9 -ogr tri-o; 19hO, 19000  nod 1978 data..AsseSo   tSosod(sso   0   oshl)-tei   ra.sdvcl
PoPulation Frlation-                                                                          AM- hoSehldoogss of a grl          y nf  .c...idolds oh  chafe. lining  qnat
PouaInI   eo2000   -    .Cret popaletino pojr asoeOsdo   9f                        And O:hid suEr ,t  ofle   A  ocd      f nelda  sai     nsy_o   eislddi
totol POPu1atio- bY ag   odsoadOht  rotait  sd                 dovtIsrste0                  .the household  frhsthiiselil inrpnese
Foajootlon  yarsenars  too otoalloy  rotes topoine of tOrsolotelseu-      Aergetoe  of --I.no  00 b- u -t tl.dt  _ron  end ones   i-lAdrg  ouI.
i      .glie ..ote .o at. h .. oosoo Ohtano'   e taytot  ictose                     hoco  peronasl efo ro.t         l   ea.adeno   tnidrnotoe
f Roliflt    boartc   -o or    lnol  sod pasth fai-lyfpoot c  ysodnts..t..               Maso  tof  Elrrtt    ooeso    nllos      oa,nhn   n   ua
Stot  I'ar   fooalania-t--ycstciotbiIioiagstla  there It-. To g          ...h..o
hsry Iatsee  enl  t           hnI   n thopoutton rat,  -ohg oath. goetioc              Fri -pishu  -tcl   al   o   oal-tc    otl   aesod                           cl
ofhoo    lrylaII   Itef'ah"           h  sslno    ouaio  iescerlen  of-llalodc  Sh  pImayh In   aIpeb-iae    _f esaeosi-
in   -the yer  00.so h-     oasofdelosa  totEit  ot E_eyat-yereht  djsPdfa...oro   loih-n   oiar d'atoi  o
meot level.                                                                 aruotries nlth sninersal eduastinoeorsllsaot say exceed 1ff peree"."-se-'y 'P..
Sesrstaoiarson  OOOOlaNlOo Es osahod - Tie yeas also otatl of yoult.ia        oboesos   pais, arehe.Lo 00iontrh tof his                     - soho .l.age.
fiehsbe   oos.Sonavoho      aa.sl   n   ael       asse   saoo   ssdc
t"  "',I I                t"' t"'. II to 91-h ~~~~~iooI             ofd-ocie-reqaioc a  leas  four.g yse-nfpp- vot               riac-lystic
Per on. As. - Old-year1 t epatlo   per ut ar  hlneo   tho (10   --t-as  of        EDU AvION          eea,vroos,o   etovsasu                       sontosfrpst
thl. -Dot-tinoial- enrollmen,ti(eon   f  ecdr)-  asinlio ttot
nofs-to  Ass itootta        f Iooroat)   Cy lo Th 0--tlu- ynael.toeicg-I    a  (1-              .....d -otle.  notil,t   terporm s,l;oth oyoad fodp1o
64 yses, sd reid(Nyaa shP-od  r                tpetnae  of thid-pao   ut-.                    dearlyo or as     'g. de Isets ofI scoan y 1c-tituttoe.         .of- - -
lIiv 16015, sod0 M h 1909 dais            lt   f  -ilt .             oPnon-ces.hoopaio-. Porimtirm  cn -1o1daY -.l. Tot l stud sore  6nl11 i
Otoaarit bschfso   (rrost I- cvol- Anua  arothostn o  Onel  id-          Primary. odjsmdoryt levels. dividodhb osfbrsa t ecoherstin. the
yearpaplasins  ar 150-0,  960-0,  nd lOl-8.                            oereynoicaIt lem-edle..-   ...   loI-
Ictinn  too1950-o. lO-is co~-d -970ThY-           - t.i ,yppIt..                        asprooae   ftoa2Oo    opltaoao 1ff                       years sod.  ns.P
Erod   ioh.fat b par-thaudadp-Aoni lIn   hirhslerwtoasad o.sodpas
CrdP  Dah2     aslerS1-ao)-aaul  och    a Dhas...ntot-yyr                                       S-conodr    -haos (05   ttoason  _oldtfa1)   -  Cassa tge  oar  onspoOs  sats,
popnlstlko; -910,d19-, sod 1900. data                                                         oarsil...  sea0h- .ofd tingls t hqso. eIgh..t p..ryass; -   PPo-d-s phuleos y hssese tasd
Oeo noosal rapradatelne CperI  d Ituonpratn   ono  aesotbofe-                       RdoO-smr (f-othosandeaa....r g." -  All  .. typo  at. roItsr  for raiy
Pf2sl.i. OAnolo St-Ao-artoo--toa- (thousads) 0-1 yooal o -ksher of sototot                       .tioadroe. nroI -" too(Po..s.tof it ya-ec nhe V.sgissa               frdi   o
-aiy donis Aoo  Lovtoo  a Y      od oroad000  -              f Poocovosgo of  - Isrofed  oItnoIesaoP-9-d hiohocpn-
nooe 6o hUd-orn ag(1-AyasIaauoho-totadvtst I9   toosme Psos   th .assn    ofru-gia)d-tV  esnr   aobsdatt
loe  o 'od.rdnoo                  -.1 Cais  1 A9-....l  - g.Ihdso    of5 otgtta  idu-     sa  a   diygnoa              esn  oese" dotl todsaprd                 in     pb
1rdutltiofal food90-0  1960oit    70a Frdato97 0nldssedadtedsd7oeisdvtd   rmtl in  sooda gNo                                             evIt eons  It   i       sdos
i47tonrisodarb ,   aobssPa,sdoe   oe  yiaygas(eg   ner                                          Pta ho    .. "d -l" Iod.it  spysars at loser.':uooiteesoeeI
intada  sgr  slOth-orQed ble so-aslctrot   eg tAft1s-edhCi .e                                   . AnulAtedcsco edipe   erese    or    obro
teaar   sotladd)   Agoes   pradattian  at oat  tonnr  is hese  00soes  oddrp-seys,    ldngaeeicsI   rv-t diea
notIonao.veoletpo-doso poir oolgoo;-19l-t0. 105, so  1900  ata,                               an  oohdl-iotcs
Fortaats soct     a  asloSt (eo -v af   outhsotnP-   Coepated ofidy..
otty  n   eOhonidon    nioentlRnesus  lady-n-ig-s, 5~O                                       esslo (nciosor  - h Pe isglht  forte. as po1ostg  of t..t.l habar forte
andse  dlsibto o  pplain   ard h           p lsi-og 10 -pco           P" ta fasc  an        sitlftooy -hret)-Lho   atsi   amn,fosty.Iaie.o
Pe  tytanopy  fortiu(ros  c  dm   -Fa tt   anettatpoaptP:I6ce    oerer    Labar toots p!in tini.  -oAlal                                       tia,ootctr
ne   apy  tla  pody               ctoy     o   odI  dofitd as-hdv....                    R  ndeJ otitty   _as   a   s   sprotg   of tat of 10... S ooo;19f
qoitmont  foeall  osnries  soabisbd byPPA roidfootiissm190sa  108daa
aedosolooeotaoohos   utoNgsosh- t...pd             I-bnndof3g troPmnnf;  ..I.
anisa   rrtas   namof   arnoeol,poosdh   h  in-sheAThrd.p.roeteges g of . tato,maesdfalppltietslngasoc                                                                        ly
afnbold Food       -f Survey; 1961-65f, 1900.and   f9Plydas_.i1960. 1900, sod 197  dts. Tb    IIc see  Iw'  pah                                     npai        oase  ct.deils
Per oseita orrin  aovtesaia  so..a-PorInspl of. fodd-                                      aoen   tntf   frhioslto,so   ngtm    eed.                            e   ei
nes   are  ton  oti--al spos.pI.io             i.'oi                  -i
FODNDiTRdTfOam                                                                                 tosl   o   acca  gasprdy   9160 90sd10   oe   -tasasi   lee dsa  Rtio Y-  Rati  ofgpnpo-ti.of aede  1- sod 65 fso  tm
Clild fuses 1-Al trtaliRm  Osgo (perthouoand) - Asona  dtof  pettuen   s          t  cNts. tota claJur fntrodspl.i.  -S-th                             -.  i.1
of .... ~~~~~~~~~~, I I  dbIo  hnshade
Atoei ..a Safe. Waer(dFos  iof eaaaih-   I1- cac , ur,s  sodIS                                tia-dbalk- yoet .Id   aaei o len1 f  that hioolsdi     d lomi..  belo d bi-bia sis
-uhra  polp       coa,ubt,sdosa)nd   ssnhi   ces  oof                                       otiisal    dqet   or  lassets   ssOo   oqiesIst   e
arospl(iofoe -rosne   eufo    aesordcoidhtnootmnid                                  atoodbl.  i
foot-no  stndoO   ntd oat more thnilbl~ eter  tooaausma   o                                                             nory    rhslee  i   oivdbo    heua
tosdere das l beigatosso          psnaltad-  t  tha hlousei,  .Pour..sees                      analBoonFofRoh
r--Poa...   ooeso-a-  isp    httehasian  sesheos a~1-iIt  the h.Roueod,                      ionsi sEth- adjso-I      too... d.) ens   lfdiig  oso a   ess
famiy' oeor  ases.                                                                 sd oeal    Psosniof pyolaine(urhd  so  rool)  ho aey"bsolte.pso"
osral    Numbe  at poplo  (ite,  o-o edEort srvd   yoaRt
disposal aspeoesncsges ofobese: repoio   aoaioss.  Snec  dedasel  sod SoilOtshvs
pitY priie handl simiarf .....llIIiass



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1979:  US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979  **                                                                       ACTUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, CONSTANT 1972 PRICES)
US$ Million           $                                                   1972 - 79
GNP at Market Prices                                    1,450            100.0                                                    4.2
Gross Domestic Investment                                 424             29.2
Gross National Savings                                    220             15.2
Current Account Balance                                   227             15.7
Exports of Goods, NFS                                     423             29.2                                                    7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS                                     578             29.8                                                    9.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added (Factor Costs)
US$ million         %
Agriculture              495            32.4
Mining 1/                 297           19.4
Industry                 269            17.6
Services 2/              468            30.6
TOTAL                1,529           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
(CFAF billion)              % of GDP
1974/75   1977/78           1975       1978
Current Revenues                         22.4       56.0           13.4       18.2
of which uranium revenue              ( 2.5)     (24.6)         ( 1.5)     ( 8.0)
Current Expenditures                     17.5        38.7          10.5       12.5
Current Balance                           4.9       17.3            2.9        5,6
Capital Expenditure                       1.9       17.6            1.1        5.7
External Assistance
Overall Balance                          +3.0       -0.3            1.8       -0.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976        1977       1978       1979
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                    12.1        12.9       15.5       20.3       22.3       29.2        37.6       54.2       66.9
Bank credit to Public Sector             -2.3       -3.5       -3.4        -7.2      -11.5      -12.3      -16.4      -11.9       -16.4
Bank credit to Private Sector             9.7       10.7        12.5       21.0       28.5       28.6       32.7        54.2       74.5
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
General Price Index (1970=100)          104.2      114.4       127.8      132.1      144.1      178.1      219.2       241.6      259.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                         .        9.8        11.7        3.4        9.1       23.6       23.0        10.2        7.3
Bank credit to Public Sector
Bank credit to Private Sector               .       10.3        16.8       68.0       35.7        0.4       14.3        65.7       37.5
**   Staff estimates.
Not available.
Not applicable.
1/   Mostly uranium mining
2/   Including Government and duties and taxes on imports.
April 2, 1981



- 22 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(in millions of current US$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                       1975 *       1979 *                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS -/:  (Annual Average: 1975-79)
Imports of Goods, NFS                    167.8        571.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                    226.5        697.9                                           US$ Million                   Z
Resource Gap (deficit = -)               -58.7       -126.9                    Livestock                  38.7                    15.1
Uranium                   177.1                    69.2
Interest Payments (net)                  -10.7        -18.7                    Groundnuts                    .6                      .2
Workers' Remittances                     -18.7        -31.3                    All other                  39.5                    15.5
Dther Factor Payments (net)                3.0            .                      TOTAL                   255.9                   100.0
Net Transfers                             77.1         87.6
Balance on Current Accounts                8.0        -89.3                    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Direct Foreign Investment (net)           15.8         48.7                    Public Debt, including guaranteed
Net MLT Borrowings                        17.0         38.3                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total coustanding and
Disbursements                     (18.8)         (.)                       disbursed                                      593.2
Repayment                         ( 1.8)         (.)
1/                                                                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979
Dther items -                            -19.8        _
Change in Reserves (end year)              5.0         -2.3                    Public Debt, including guaranteed
Foreign Reserves (end year)               51.4         85.3                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                                     Total outstanding and
disbursed                                        3.4%
% of imports                       12.8         11.0
IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1979
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and disbursed                          48.1
1971:  US$1.00 = CFAF 277.03                                                Undisbursed                                        53.4
1972:  US$1.00 = CFAF 252.21                                                Outstanding including undisbursed                 101.5
1973:  US$1.00 = CFAF 222.70
1974:  US$1.00 = CFAF 240.50
1975:  US$1.00 = CFAF 214.32
1976:  US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1977:  US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1978:  US$1.00 = CFAF 220.00
1979:  US$1.00 = CFAF 212.72
I/ Including errors and commissions.
2/ Recorded exports only.
k  staff estimates.                                                                                                    April 2, 1981
not applicable.
not available.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as at February 28, 1981)
Credit                                                             US$ million
Number   Year   Borrower             Purpose               Amount (less cancellation) /1
IDA      Undisbursed
Seven credits fully disbursed                               30.7
441     1973   Republic of Niger   Drought Relief           2.0          0.2
612     1976   Republic of Niger   Niger Third Highway   15.6            2.6
634     1976   Republic of Niger   Telecommunications
Project              5.2          0.7
800     1978   Republic of Niger   Forestry Project         4.5          1.4
809     1978   Republic of Niger   Employment Creation
Project              5.0          1.9
851     1978   Republic of Niger   Irrigation              15.0          9.1
885     1979   Republic of Niger   Livestock               12.0         10.6
886     1979   Republic of Niger   Feeder Roads            10.0          6.4
967     1979   Republic of Niger   Dosso Agricultural
Development         20.0         20.0
1026     1980   Republic of Niger   Second Maradi Rural
Development         16.7         16.7
Total                                             136.7        69.6
of which has been repaid                          0.3
Total now outstanding and held by IDA             136.4
Total undisbursed                                              69.6
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at February 28, 1981)
Nil.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 441 - Drought Relief Project, US$2.0 Million; Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effectiveness Date: May 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit aimed at helping the population in drought-affected
areas to reestablish their self-sufficiency through redevelopment and
improvement of their farms and herds. The project, which comprised seven
sub-projects (training scheme, construction of rural warehouses, spot repairs
of a feeder road, engineering studies of an irrigation project, construction
of erosion control facilities, protection of gum tree and construction and
operation of calf feeding units is completed.
Credit 612 - Third Highway Project; US$15.6 Million; Credit of March 5,
1976; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project includes: (a) a four-year program of periodic mainten-
ance, including procurement of equipment and training of specialized public
work staff, (b) construction and improvement of the Zinder-Nigerian border
road (113 km) and of the Maradi-Nigerian border road (40 km) and (c) con-
sulting services for supervision of road construction and a survey of the
domestic construction industry. Construction of the Maradi-Nigerian border
road was completed ahead of schedule and the Zinder-Nigerian border road is
expected to be completed shortly. A study of the domestic construction
industry is currently underway, as are studies to prepare a proposed fourth
project.
Credit 634 - Telecommunications Project; US$5.2 Million; Credit of
June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: November 9, 1976;
Closing Date: August 31, 1981
This project includes installation of automatic switching equipment
with cable and subscriber distribution networks; provision of trunk switching
equipment, three VHF links and one HF radio link, overhead line and carrier
equipment; civil works, miscellaneous equipment, vehicles and tools and
services of engineering and financial consultants. Procurement is completed.
The project is experiencing a 24 percent cost overrun that the Government has
agreed to finance from its own budgetary resources.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report problems
which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 25-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Credit 800 - Forestry Project; US$4.5 million; Credit of June 7, 1978;
Eiffectiveness Date: February 7, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This project will assist Government ini its efforts to establish 400
ha of pilot irrigated plantations and 700 ha of pilot rainfed tree plantations;
improve the rural forestry activities of the Forestry Department; finance a
training program in extension services; provide assistance to research and
a workshop maintenance unit. The Project Management Unit created within the
Forestry Department to assist with coordinating and monitoring project activi-
ties is fully operational and project implementation is progressing
satisf actorily.
Credit 809 - Industrial and Artisan Sector Employment Creation Project;
US$5.0 million; Credit of June 7, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project aims at assisting Government in the promotion of more
labor intensive employment creation i-n Niger's industrial and artisan sectors
while strengthening the sector's institutional infrastructure, by providing
a line of credit, training and technical assistance to BDRN, including the
development of a bank management training program of the Ecole Nationale
d'Administration, financial and technical assistance for creation of OPEN, the
new agency created under the project to provide technical assistance and
training for local enterpreneurs, and by assisting the Artisans Center to
improve the productivity and employment of artisans affiliated with the
Center. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 851 - Irrigation Project; US$15.0 Million; Credit of February 15,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims to assist the Government in expanding cereal and
vegetable production along the Niger River through development of a 1,550 ha
polder; providing agricultural development services on neighbouring irrigation
schemes (1,215 ha) and dryland farming plots (9,000 ha); and in creating the
necessary institutional framework for the implementation of its irrigation
development program through establishment of a national agency (ONAHA) which
would integrate and strengthen the activities of construction and manaeement
of the irrigation schemes. The project will also finance the preparation of a
feasibility study for a nearby polder, as well as the services of a financial
coordinator to be attached to the Ministry of Rural Development to assist in
accounting and financial management of the various IDA-financed agricultural
projects in Niger. Due to initial delays in credit signing and in the award
of contracts for equipment and engineering services, construction of the
irrigation works started in March 1980.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit 885 - Livestock Project; US$12.0 Million; Credit of April 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
A combination of health and productivity services will be available
to herd owners in the pastoral and cropping zones. An innovative approach
will be taken by establishing Associations of Pastoralists, legally recognized
cooperative entities based on existing social groups. Members of these Associ-
ations will have access to a greater range of health services, new forms of
credit for backgrounding and breeding, improvements to existing wells and
extension of watering points and advice on range management. In addition to
the goals of increased livestock productivity and greater participation of
herders in management of animals, water and pasture resources, the project will
provide assistance to the Livestock Department to develop competence in deliv-
ery of productivity services. Project implementation proceeds satisfactorily.
Credit 886 - Feeder Road Project; US$10 Million; Credit of April 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project will improve 1,000 km of feeder roads which support
Governments agricultural program and create an appropriate structure for the
execution of comprehensive feeder road programs. The project will finance
highway construction equipment and spare parts; labor, materials and supplies
for the improvement program; offices for and technical assistance to the newly
created Feeder Road Technical Section to aid in implementing and monitoring
the improvement program and in training technicians, mechanics, equipment
operators and training officers. Equipment procurement is well underway and
tehnical assistance is being installed.
Credit 967 - Dosso Agricultural Development Project;
US$20.0 Million; Credit of June 12, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: February 25, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project comprises a five-year program intended to increase
farm incomes and improve the welfare and standard of living of the rural
population of Dosso Province and to build up an extension service through:
the introduction of improved farming practices for rainfed cereals, cowpeas
and groundnuts; the improvement of vaccination coverage, delivery of drugs
and feed supplements and animal husbandry practices for beef cattle and
work oxen; the construction of small-scale irrigation schemes for 200 ha of
bottomlands; the introduction of a Training and Visit extension system; the
strengthening of the farm input and implement supply system; and applied
research. Training, extension, input supply and credit services would be made
accessible to about 80,000 farm families, of whom 25,000 are expected to adopt
the recommended improved practices.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit 1026 - Second Maradi Rural Development Project; US$16.7 Million;
Credit of June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
February 26, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project follows up on the First Maradi Project. It includes
the expansion of improved agricultural practices in rainfed farming areas;
training of extension staff, young farmers and blacksmiths; agricultural
credit; development of irrigation potential in Maradi; applied agricultural
research; seed multiplication; functional literacy and health proposals.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification mission: July 1978
(b) Appraisal mission: December 1979
(c) Date of completion of negotiations: February 26, 1981
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: August 31, 1981
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) The Government will submit to IDA for review by Dec. 31,
1982, an interim status report on project-financed educa-
tional planning activities and will submit to IDA for
review by July 31, 1984, a final status report on these
planning activities (para. 31);
(b) The Government will submit to IDA for review by
September 30, 1982, a summary report on project-financed
activities for civil service upgrading (para. 32);
(c) The Government will appoint by September 30, 1981, qualified
candidates for the posts of Assistant Director and Chief
Accountant of the IPDR (para. 33);
(d) the Government will award fellowships under the project to
suitably qualified persons and will prepare and submit to
IDA for review by September 30, 1981, a list of fellowship
candidates and their proposed training programs (para. 35);
(e) The Ministry of Rural Development will employ qualified
persons to serve as Project Director and Assistant Project
Accountant (para. 36);
(f) INDRAP, MFP and MDR will maintain separate accounts for
the project, including separate accounts for certified
statements of expenditure. All accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA and
accounts and audit reports would be submitted to IDA for
review within four months of the close of Government's
fiscal year (para. 41);



- 29 -                  A
Page 2 of 2
(g) The Government will make adequate budgetary provisions for
the operation and maintenance of all project institutions and
submit to IDA for review not later than October 30 each year
the proposed budgets for these institutions (para. 44);
(h) Conditions for effectiveness:
-     the Government will have issued a decree establish-
ing the upgraded IPDR with an organizational struc-
ture and financial and accounting system acceptable
to IDA (para. 33);
-     the Government will have issued a decree establish-
ing the ECE with an organizational structure and
financing and accounting system acceptable to IDA
(para. 34);
-     the Government will have issued in its Ministry of
Rural Development a Project Director and an Assis-
tant Project Accountant (para. 36).






IBRD 15050
o                                                                  N                                 6'          t.,..>, :,,<0>    ,:          :': .7 '.'':2i'> L,
N I G E R                                                                                  
FIRST EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                                 .                          -i
20  PREMIER PROJET D'EDIUCA f/ON                                                                              PI
RIJRAL CEVELOPMENi TRAININC IrNS'ITUTE                                                                  A:<E... o              N   I  G   E  R
A     IA5ST/TOT PRAT/DE CE CF DEVEfCEPAEVT RURA4 f/POE!                                                                    J ,
ANIMAL  /1DCO     IINN    IID
[COLE DES CADRES DEL,ZEVAGE                                     V
0    FIELD 5IATIONSCONST.RJCTED                                 G'               _       /.    \ N-amey
o   IAVFSNNS -C0VSRUIF                            _-S --,g,--
F ELD STATIONS- MOEILE                               r                                                                                        *. t
*    ANTENNEV,SO - VMADES
SECOND MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                *                                                       1
DEVOEUME PRoJrE Of DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL OF MARA0                                       I                  AI
PEROECT AREA /       ZONE DU   T ERC,ET
EXTENSION                                                                                                          ,
DOSSO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                 !                              I _
I8-            PROT D   F     DF VELOPPEMFNr AGRICDE DF o05sO             r
LIVESTOCK PROJECT- LECAL PASTORAL ZONE                 I                                -   .I_
1FROJEr FELVACE - ZONE PASTORALf LEGALE i
F__   NAMARIGOUNGOU IRRIGATION PROJECT               |                   .                                                                        [
PFoJFr  D /REICAODN f D NA4AARIDOI/OGOU                .                                          -.
FORESTRY PROJECT                                         --
PROJET FORESTIL'RE ....,.A. 
PAVED ROADS / ROUTES BITtMEES                                        -
LATERITE ROADS / ROUTES fN LATER/TEf                                                                             .-      ACAD
- TRACKS / PI5TfT                                       |                                  . -           oel-
4     AIRPORTS / AEROPORTS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY / FROCIV7TRE  NTFITIVA/1ONAl/ .
5      55      iSO     ISO     200                                    kh-T.'-d-
KILOMETER5                                                                               .
M         A         [       I            E                                              /                                                      -'      ''
-d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~d
'~~~~~I~~~~~'+~~~o,-  Bn-Eengee  J4AeaI                                                                                                         Teneen<~~g 
(Reek loee                         ,           Tvonu  obloo                            *     
NIAMEY               nE T                 +    <,                                                                 eseeo
\K,eue4
N  I        E     R~~~~~~~e nI Ae e,etMyS  &  ae  oteeee5 nne  ,,e,e
./-,-  2-   B        E                                                                         aNeeaeteeIM,e



