Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE  COPY
Report No. 3047-NIR
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION PROJECT
May 4, 1981
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFAF
US$1.00        = CFAF 210
MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 = 3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)         = 10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)            = 0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)  = 0.39 square mile
1 hectare                   = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)            = 2,204 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
I.        INTRODUCTION          ..........................................  1
Il.   BACKGROUND ........ . . ....2
A.   Geography and Population .....        ...................    2
B.   The Economy ........       .............................    2
C.   General Manpower-Constraints .....       ...............    3
III.      KEY HUMAN RESOURCE AREAS .............................    3
A.   General Education ...............................    3
B.   The Public Administration .....        ..................    5
C.   Agricultural Education and Training ...........  .       5
IV.       GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES .................    8
A.   The National Development Plan      .      .              8
B. General Education           ..                             8
C. The Public Administration .               .                9
D.   Agricultural Education and Training.          .          9
E.   The Bank Group's Lending Strategy for
Education and Training ........................   12
*      V          THE PROJECT .........................   13
A. Project Objectives   .                .13
B. Project Summary               ..13
C.   Educational Planning and Project Preparation ....   14
D. The Public Administration   .             .15
E.   Agricultural Technician Training   .       .15
F.   Animal Production Technician Training  . .16
G. Project Management    .                .17
H. Evaluation   .                    .17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents - continued
Page No.
VI.         PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN ......               ................   18
A.    Cost of the Project  ........           .....................    18
B.    Financing Plan ...........          .......................    20
C.    Procurement .       .....................................    21
D.    Disbursements ...........          ........................    22
E.    Project Recurrent Costs  ......            ...................    23
VII.        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .........            ......................    23
A.    Project Preparation ........            .....................   23
B.    Project Management  ........          ......................    23
C.    Accounts and Audit ........           ......................    24
D.    Technical Assistance and Fellowships  ....             ........   24
VIII.       BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........           ........................    25
A.    Benefits  . .......................................    25
B.  Risks ............................................  25
IX.         AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....... ........   26
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Niger in
December 1979, comprising Messrs. D. Brewin (consultant), G. Berlin, P. Bussat
and R. Skolnik (Bank) and J. Thibaud (consultant). Messrs. T. Nkodo and E.
Sinodinos (Bank) participated during part of the mission.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
ANNEXES
1       Comparative Education Indicators
2.1     Structure of the Education System, 1979
2.2     Education Pyramid, 1978
3.1     Government Recurrent Expenditures on Education and Rural Development,
1978/79 - 1979/80
3.2     Government Capital Expenditures on Education and Rural Development,
1978/79 - 1979/80
4.1     Classification of Civil Service Personnel Involved in Rural
Development
4.2     Estimated Requirements for Agricultural MIanpower, 1975 - 1984
4.3     Estimated Requirements for Animal Production Manpower, 1979 - 1983
4.4     IPDR - Actual and Projected Enrollments, 1973 - 1985
4.5     IPDR - Contributions of Other Donors
5.1     Cost Summary Table
5.2     Contingency Allowances
5.3     Financing Plan by Project Component and Category
6.1     Summary of Specialist Services
6.2     Summary of Fellowships
7       Implementation Schedule
8       Schedule of Disbursements
9       Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditure
10      List of Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP     IBRD No. 15050



v



GLOSSARY/GLOSSAIRE
ADB       African Development Bank                Banque africaine de développement
CFJA      Young Farmer Training Center            Centre de formation des jeunes
agriculteurs
COTEDEP   Provincial Development Committee        Comité technique départemental
CPR       Rural Improvement Center                Centre de promotion rurale
EAATEN    Animal Production Technicans           Ecole des assistants et agents
School                                 techniques de l'élevage
ECE       Animal Production Training             Ecole des cadres de l'elevage
School
EDF       European Development Fund              Fonds Européen de développement
ENA       National School of Administration    Ecole nationale d'administration
ESA       University School of Agriculture       Ecole supérieure d'agronomie
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization    Organisation mondiale pour l'agri-
culture et l'alimentation
INDRAP    National Institute of Education        Institut national de documen-
tation de recherche et
d'animation pédagogique
INRAN     National Agricultural Research         Institut national de la recherche
Institute                              agronomique
IPDR      Rural Development Training             Institut pratique pour le déve-
Institute                              loppement rural
MDR       Ministry of Rural Development          Ministère du developpement rural
MEN       Ministry of National Education         Ministère de l'éducation nationale
MES       Ministry of Higher Education and       Ministère de l'éducation supérieure
Research                               et de la recherche
MFP       Ministry of Civil Service and          Ministère de la fonction publique
Labor                                  et du travail
ONAHA     National Water Management              Office national d'aménagements
Authority                              hydro-agricoles
UNCC      National Credit and Cooperative        Union nationale de crédit et de
Union                                  coopération
UNDP      United Nations Development              Programme des Nations Unies
Programme                              pour le développement



il



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
BASIC DATA
General (1978)
C-NP per capita                            US$ 250
Land Area                                  1.3 million km2
Population                                 5.1 million
of which:
rural                                   92%
urban                                   8%
Population growth rate
general                                 2.7%
urban                                   7.8%
Life expectancy at Birth                   40 years
Literacy rate                              8%
Educational Enrollments (1977/78)
Level                      Age Group   Enrollment   % of Age Group   % Female
Primary                      7-12        176,397          16.9             35.3
Lower Secondary             13-16         18,712           3.0             29.1
Upper Secondary             17-19          3,578           0.9             25.8
of which:
general                               2,020
vocational, technical,
and teacher training                  1,558
Educational Costs and Finance (1976/77)
Central Government recurrent expenditure
on education:
as % of GDP                             2.8%
as % of total Government
recurrent expenditure                 14.7%
Recurrent cost per student (1976/77)       US$
primary                               60
general secondary                    310
upper secondary agricultural         930
upper secondary animal production  540
university                         1,670



f



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed project would be the first Bank Group lending operation
for education for Niger. Although the Government and the Bank have discussed
education intermittently since 1972, changes in senior Government personnel,
differences between the Bank and the Government on investment priorities, and
the lack of a well-defined Government program for educational development pre-
vented progress until recently toward Bank Group financing of an education
project.
1.02      In the past few years, however, the Government has formulated pro-
grams for the development of agriculture and animal production training. In
addition, the Government recently proposed a broad strategy for educational
development and has begun reviewing on-the-job training requirements for
civil servants. The Government has therefore asked the Bank Group to finance
a project which would focus on agricultural and animal production training
but which would also assist the Government in defining programs and projects
concerning formal education and the training of civil servants that might later
be suitable for Bank financing.
1.03      The proposed project would address three of Niger's most critical
human resource problems:  (a) the limited development of the formal education
system, (b) shortages of qualified personnel to operate the civil service,
and (c) shortages of middle-level technicians and extension workers in agri-
culture and animal production.
1.04      The educational planning and project preparation component would
assist the Government in formulating programs to deal with key educational
issues and in preparing education projects that would be suitable for external
financing in the future. This component would also provide a basis for dis-
cussion with the Government on ways in which the Bank Group can further assist
educational development in Niger.
1.05      The public administration component would help the Government to
establish a training directorate within the Ministry of the Civil Service and
Labor (MFP). This directorate will be responsible for defining policies and
programs for the training and upgrading of middle- and upper-level employees,
particularly in the civil service. This component would complement an ongoing
program for improving governmental organization and procedures. It would also
provide a framework for the training of project analysts and senior project
staff in a proposed technical assistance project.
1.06      The main components of the proposed project concern training in
agriculture and animal production. They would upgrade and expand the output
of middle-level technicians and extension workers in these critical fields and
would support the Government-s priority plans for strengthening its rural
development services.



II. BACKGROUND
A. Geography and Population
2.01      Landlocked Niger is one of the largest countries in West Africa,
with an area of 1.3 million km2. Four-fifths of the country is arid desert
and the remainder savannah.
2.02      Niger has a population of about 5.1 million, of whom about 90% live
in rural and 10% in urban areas. The average annual population growth rate is
about 2.7% overall and about 8% in urban areas. Population density averages
4 per km2 but is over 100 per km2 in the southern savannah region, where about
80% of the population lives. The population is comprised of a number of ethnic
groups, the largest of which are the Hausa, the Djerma-Songhai, the Peul, the
Beriberi-Manga and the Tuareg. More than 80% of the population are Muslims.
All major ethnic groups have their own languages; the Hausa and Djerma-Songhai
languages are used as lingua francas but French is the official language.
2.03      The level of human resources development in Niger is among the
lowest in the world. Only about 8% of the population are literate and
enrollment ratios are about 17% at the primary and 2% at the secondary level.
These primary and secondary school ratios are similar to those found in Mali,
Mauritania, and Upper Volta, and are significantly below the rest of West
Africa. The health and nutritional status of the population is also among the
lowest in the world and life expectancy at birth is only about 40 years.
B.   The Economy
2.04      Niger is one of the thirty least developed countries in the world
and its GNP per capita was about US$250 in 1978. Economic development has
been constrained by its landlocked position, unfavorable weather, poor soils
and low level of human resources development.
2.05      In 1978 the agricultural  sector generated about 42% of GDP in
current prices, while mining, dominated by uranium, contributed 12% to GDP.
The industrial sector, including construction, accounted for another 14%; the
tertiary sector including government services, contributed 31% to GDP in that
year.
2.06      From 1972 to 1978, GDP in constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of about 3%, largely as the result of two countervailing trends. From
1972 to 1975 the economy experienced a negative rate of growth due primarily
to a severe drought induced setback to agriculture, animal production and
related industries. From 1975 to 1978, however, the economy grew at about
9% per year, which reflected a modest rate of growth in most sectors, coupled
with about a 25% per year growth in uranium mining.
2.07      The rapid growth in uranium mining relative to the growth rate in
other sectors has produced substantial structural changes in the economy. The
share of agriculture and livestock in GDP in constant prices declined from 1972
to 1978 from about 55% to 50%, while that of mining grew from 2% to 5% over



- 3 -
the same period. In addition, the share of agriculture and livestock in the
value of exports declined over the period from 73% to 22%, while the share of
uranium increased from 17% to 76%.
2.08      The Government's conservative financial policy and its revenues
from uranium led to increasing budgetary savings up to 1980.   Most of these
savings were used to finance increasing public investments. Recurrent expendi-
tures increased by 1.3 times in real terms between 1972/73 and 1977/78, whereas
capital expenditures increased by 4.0 times in real terms. As a result, the
share of budgeted capital expenditures in the total budget increased from 12%
to 32%.
2.09      The overall prospects for development in Niger were assumed in the
last few years to be bright, due to optimistic projections for the further
growth of uranium revenues.  However, the price of uranium has dropped recently
and value added in the mining sector declined substantially in 1981. It is
now assumed that for most of this decade uranium will not be able to provide
the major stimulus for growth of the economy on which previous projections had
been based. Hence, the major issue now facing the economy is the need to
revise the investment priorities set out in the 1979-1983 Development Plan to
take account of the fact that fewer local financial resources than anticipated
will be available for at least the remaining period of the Plan, and probably
for some years thereafter as well.
C. General Manpower Constraints
2.10      During the period of the 1976-1978 Development Plan, the Government
implemented only about 25% of its planned investments, largely because of a
lack of absorptive capacity resulting, for the most part, from shortages of
qualified manpower. The prospects for more successfully implementing the
1979-1983 National Development Plan will depend on the increased availability
of qualified Nigerien personnel. This will be especially true for development
of the rural sector, which is the Plan's primary focus.
2.11      Shortages of qualified workers are primarily a result of the low
level of educational development in Niger and are reflected in a number of
ways, including the migration of semi-skilled and skilled workers to Niger
from neighboring countries and the predominance of expatriates in high-level
positions. More than 20% of the semi-skilled workers, 60% of the technicians,
and 70% of the engineers and managers, for example, are expatriates.  Educa-
tional development has been so limited until recently that not only is there a
lack of qualified Nigeriens for particular jobs, but there is also a lack of
literate people who can be effectively trained to fulfill manpower requirements.
III. KEY HUMAN RESOURCE AREAS
A.   General Education
3.01      The Ministry of National Education (MEN) is responsible for primary
and secondary education. Enrollment at the primary level in 1977/78 was about
176,000, of which about 35% were female. Enrollment at the lower secondary



- 4 -
level was about 19,000, of which 29% were female. About 3,600 students were
enrolled in upper secondary schools, and about 26% of these were female.
3.02      The Ministry of Higher Education and Research (MES) is responsible
for university education and the operation of the National Agricultural
Research Institute (INRAN). Enrollment at the university level in Niger
is about 600, of whom 10% are female.  University enrollment represents a
negligible proportion of the relevant age group.
3.03      The National Institute of Education (INDRAP) plays an important role
in curriculum development, in-service teacher training, educational broadcast-
ing, development of learning materials, and the identification and preparation
of education projects. INDRAP works closely with the Ministry of Education's
Planning and School Construction Unit, but a lack of qualified local staff
hampers the planning, identification and preparation work of both INDRAP and
the Planning Unit.
3.04      The Government has made significant efforts to expand the education
system during recent years and enrollments have been increasing at an average
annual rate of 10% at the primary and 15% at the secondary level. However, in
view of inadequate planning, the limited base of education and rapid population
growth, these efforts have led to only limited progress in resolving the major
issues confronting the sector, which include:
(a) a lack of qualified local staff for planning and administration of
education and training programs;
(b) limited and unequal access to education and training, especially
for the rural population and for women;
(c) low internal efficiency; for example, only about 50% of pupils
beginning primary school complete the course;
(d) a teaching corps which is insufficiently trained at the primary
level and predominantly expatriate at the secondary and tertiary
levels; for example, in 1976 about 50% of the primary teachers had
a primary school leaving certificate as their highest qualification
and 70% of the secondary teachers were expatriates;
(e)  failure to allocate recurrent funds for education in accordance with
new capital investment; recurrent expenditure on education remained
almost constant in real terms over the period 1972-78 and averaged
only about 17% of total public recurrent expenditure, which is lower
than the average for the West Africa region and has not been enough
to sustain the quality of the expanded education system; and
(f) inability of the education system to produce adequate numbers of
literate, skilled and educated Nigeriens to meet priority manpower
requirements.



B.   The Public Administration
3.05      The Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor is responsible for
the management of the public administration, including the promulgation o0
appropriate regulations, personnel management, and training. The training
functions of the Ministry are carried out primarily through the National
School of Administration (ENA), which in the past has focused primarily on
pre-service formal training.
3.06      The public administration faces a number of major issues, incluclin,
overly centralized decision-making, personnel management procedures that vary
between Government agencies, a lack of suitably trained civil servants, and
shortages of qualified candidates for the civil service. The unusually
limited educational background of Nigerien civil service personnel is reflecteu
in the fact that less than 10% of them have a baccalaureate degree or higher
qualification and more than 50% of them have only a primary school-leavinâ
certificate as their highest qualification.
C.   Agricultural Education and Training
3.07      Background.  The decreasing share of the rural sector in GDP (para.
2.07) reflects not only a rapidly rising uranium production but also the slow
development of agriculture. Agricultural development has been constrained by
poor climate and soil conditions, low producer prices, inadequate and irregu-
lar availability of inputs, and technical and administrative weaknesses in the
extension and research services. Recent crop production has been generally
disappointing. This is especially true for groundnut production, which has
declined since 1972 from about 260,000 tons (shelled) to about 100,000 tons,
primarily as a result of low producer prices domestically (which have since
been raised), disease, drought, seedstock problems, and weakness of the
extension service.
3.08      Livestock production was disrupted by the 1973 drought which,
according to Government estimates, reduced the national herd from about 4.2
million cattle to 2.2 million and small stock from 9 million to 7 million.
Although herd reconstitution has begun, pre-drought cattle numbers are not
expected to be reached for another decade. Livestock productivity levels
remain modest and there is a need to improve the management of animal procuuc-
tion and technical advice and inputs for pastoralists.
3.09      Agricultural Institutions.  The Ministry of Rural Development has
the main responsibility for rural development, but the Government also finances
investments in the rural sector through other ministries, such as Public Works,
Health and Education.
3.10      The main responsibility for agricultural extension is unciertaken by:
(a) the agricultural service of the Ministry of Rural Development,
with responsibility for farmer training, the diffusion of improved
methods, crop protection and the maintenance of agricultural
statistics;
(b) the Ministry's livestock service, which concentrates mainly on
animal health control;



- 6 -
(c) the National Credit and Cooperative Union (UNCC), which is responsi-
ble for the formation of cooperative groups, marketing, provision of
inputs and access to credit;
(d) the National Water Management Authority (ONAHA), which is responsi-
ble for all irrigation projects;
(e) a service to promote rural development, which is controlled by the
Ministry of Planning; and
(f) particular productivity projects which provide intensified extension
efforts in specific regions of the country.
The Government has promoted coordination of extension efforts through: (a)
provincial development committees (COTEDEP), (b) integrated rural productivity
projects, and (c) a reform of agricultural education leading to better coordi-
nated training programs for extension staff.
3.11      Training for agriculture and animal production.  Staff responsible
for the rural sector are recruited and trained at seven different levels as
shown in Annex 4.1 and discussed below.
3.12      Professional agriculturists in senior supervisory positions (Grade
Ai) are trained initially at the University School of Agriculture (ESA) in
Niamey, in five-year post-baccalaureat courses, with the final year under-
taken overseas. Veterinarians (Grade Al) are trained abroad for at least five
years after the baccalaureat, generally at the regional Veterinary School of
the University of Dakar. Field managerial and senior extension staff (Grade
A2) for both agriculture and animal husbandry are trained in three-year
courses at the ESA, either at the post-baccalaureat level or after working in
the field at lower grades and passing an entrance examination.
3.13      Technicians (Grade Bl), assistant technicians (Grade B2) and exten-
sion agents (Grade Cl) are trained in agriculture and related fields, such as
rural engineering, forestry, cooperatives, "animation", water management, and
marketing, at the Rural Development Training Institute (IPDR) in Kolo, and in
animal production at the Animal Production Technicians School (EAATEN) in
Niamey. Field extension staff (Grade D) and auxiliaries working in direct
contact with farmers receive short periods of on-the-job training in specific
topics related to their work, usually provided by the organization or project
which is employing them. There are also a number of non-formal training
institutions in Niger, including rural youth training centers (CFJAs) and
Rural Improvement Centers (CPRs) for the training of young farmers and their
wives. The Maradi Rural Development Project (Cr. 608-NIR) is supporting
centers of this kind.
3.14      Manpower requirements of the rural sector.  The ESA and universities
overseas are adequately addressing the requirements for professional and
managerial manpower (Grade A). Manpower needs at the direct contact extension
level (Grade D) are dealt with under IDA-financed and other agricultural and
livestock projects. As discussed below, the main staffing gap, and hence the
crucial manpower constraint, is for technicians (Grade Bl) and extension
agents (Grade C) at the middle level.



- 7 -
3.15      The IPDR, which started in 1933 as a training center for master
farmers and began to admit secondary-level students in 1967, is the only
middle-level agricultural training center in the country. Prior to 1976 the
Institute had the capacity to train only about 30 extension agents (Grade C)
per year, but the annual output has since increased to 75. The training of
assistant technicians (Grade B2) began in 1976 and about 35 are now trained
per year in an "emergency  program to cater for immediate needs.  Training of
fully qualified technicians (Grade B1) did not begin at the IPDR until 1979
and the training of assistant technicians (Grade B2) is being phased out as
the training of technicians (Grade B1) is being developed to improve the
quality of technician-level staff.
3.16      Assisted by several external agencies, the Government in recent
years has reviewed the requirements for middle-level agricultural personnel
from 1975 to 1984. On the basis of this review, it is estimated that the
Government needs to train about 140 extension agents (Grade C) and 70 tech-
nicians (Grade B1) per year to meet the manpower requirements of ongoing and
planned investments in agricultural-related activities. The present output
of the IPDR is not sufficient to meet the requirements for these staff.
3.17      Prior to 1969, middle-level animal production personnel were trained
in Mali. In that year, however, the European Development Fund (EDF) financed
the construction of the EAATEN (para. 3.13) which has since trained an average
of 15 Nigerien assistant technicians (Grade B2) and 15 Nigerien extension
agents (Grade C) each year. The EAATEN does not train fully qualified techni-
cians (Grade Bl) but, for animal production training as well as agricultural
training, the Government will phase out the training of assistant technicians
(Grade B2) as the training of technicians (Grade B1) is developed (para. 3.15).
3.18      With the assistance of UNDP/FAO, the Government recently reviewed
manpower requirements in the livestock sector on the basis of ongoing and
planned livestock development programs. As in the case of agricultural
personnel, the present output of the EAATEN is insufficient to meet manpower
requirements for middle-level animal production staff.
3.19      In addition to the demand for increased output of middle-level
personnel, there is also a need for qualitative improvement of their training
programs. For example, the IPDR training programs have exhibited many weak-
nesses: little student involvement in field activities, imprecise formulation
of teaching objectives, poorly sequenced learning units, and little or no
evaluation of teaching effectiveness. As the enrollment of the IPDR has grown
in recent years, these weaknesses have been exacerbated by a lack of qualified
and experienced teaching personnel, the poor state of repair and insufficient
capacity of many of the buildings and inadequate equipment. Most of these
weaknesses also apply to animal production training at the EAATEN, particularly
the lack of field work and the excessive concentration in the curriculum on
animal disease control. Moreover, the school is situated in the center of
Niamey on a site which does not allow for expansion, is surrounded by urban
housing isolated from examples of the animal husbandry practiced over most of
the country, and is now overcrowded.



-8-
IV. GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES
A.   The National Development Plan
4.01      The new Five-Year Development Plan (1979-1983) identifies Niger s
basic objectives as:  (a) the modernization of agriculture and livestock pro-
duction; (b) a high rate of economic growth spurred by investments in mining,
industry, transportation and communications; (c) human resources development;
and (d) a gradual reduction of regional disparities in income. About 30% of
public investments over the Plan period will be allocated to rural development,
30% to mining, energy and industry, 22% to education and health, and 18% to
transportation and communications. As noted in para. 2.09, the Government is
likely to revise the investment program outlined in the Plan to take account
of more limited financial resources than had previously been anticipated.  It
is not yet clear to what extent the relative share of investments by sector
will be modified, but rural development will remain the first priority for
investments.
B.   General Education
4.02      The Development Plan proposes that the Government should aim over
the long term at (a) a basic education for all school-age children, (b) an
education system well adapted to the country's development needs, and (c)
the production of the skilled and educated manpower required for social and
economic development.
4.03      The Government proposes during the Plan period to (a) increase
the primary school enrollment ratio from 17% to 25%; (b) increase the transi-
tion rate from primary to secondary school from 40% to 50%; (c) strengthen
the University, particularly in agriculture, forestry, animal production,
education, law, business and science; and (d) train people to meet the most
immediate requirements for skilled manpower in agriculture, animal production,
mining, communications and transportation. To address these objectives, the
Government will strengthen the institutions responsible for education and
training, expand the output of qualified teachers, adapt curricula to local
needs, and include training in all development projects.
4.04      While the Plan clearly spells out long-term goals and a general
strategy for achieving them, the Government has not yet defined specific means
for realizing its objectives. The next step in the planning process, there-
fore, is to formulate specific and well-prepared programs and projects which
could be suitable for both local and international financing. As the Govern-
ment s educational planning bodies are not sufficiently staffed to do this
(para. 3.03), the Government recently requested the UNDP to finance one
man-year of technical assistance and several man-years of fellowships for
educational planning. To complement UNDP-financed assistance, the Government
has asked the Bank Group to finance (a) additional technical assistance to
undertake detailed planning work on improvement of educational quality,
teacher education and technical education; (b) additional fellowships for the
training of local planning staff; and (c) educational and architectural
services to prepare specific investment projects.



- 9-
C.   The Public Administration
4.05      The Government is making a major effort to improve the overall
performance of the civil service. The Ministry of the Civil Service and
Labor, with the assistance of specialists financed by the UNDP, is trying to
(a) improve the structures and procedures of the MFP, (b) harmonize personnel
management practices across the public sector, (c) improve public service
regulations, and (d) mechanize personnel management.
4.06      The Government has worked with the UNDP since 1963 to establish and
strengthen pre-service training programs at the ENA, which now operates pro-
grams of study at three levels for almost 600 civil servants. Over the next
five years, the Government plans to further broaden the curriculum of the ENA
by adding a higher-level course in "Accounting and the Management of Public
Enterprises."
4.07      As part of its efforts to strengthen the civil service, the Govern-
ment is also trying to establish a systematic program for on-the-job upgrading
of civil servants, with special attention to be given to civil servants who
are executing development projects. The Ministry of the Civil Service and
Labor has recently begun a series of upgrading seminars on a pilot basis. The
Governnent plans to further develop the upgrading program through establishing
a training directorate within the MFP which will define general policies and
programs for upgrading, initiate training programs, and prepare future up-
grading projects. The Government has asked the Bank to finance technical
assistance to carry out the above activities and set up a foundation for
additional training and upgrading programs which are included in the proposed
technical assistance project (para. 1.05).
D.   Agricultural Education and Training
4.08      Background.  The Government's current strategy for rural development
has two primary aims: to exploit the potential in rain-fed crop and livestock
production, and to increase the area under controlled irrigation.
4.09      The strategy for rain-fed agriculture is to set up in each province
projects, including the provision of inputs and improved extension, credit and
marketing facilities, which will promote increased productivity. By 1979,
such projects were being implemented in five of the six provinces concerned.
The Governnent's strategy for controlled irrigation is for a modest rate of
development and the building up of institutions that will later be capable of
managing a more rapidly expanding rate of irrigation.
4.10      The Government's main objectives for the livestock sub-sector
include herd reconstitution, increased animal productivity, and better manage-
ment of the semi-arid pastoral zone to preserve its ecological balance. While
the Government-s strategy for livestock development is less well-defined, it
is developing a variety of projects including state ranches, state breeding
centers and the provision of services to pastoralists. The Government is also
placing more emphasis on the integration of livestock and crops where this is
feasible and broadening the scope of the extension work to be carried out by
both agricultural and livestock extension staff.



- 10 -
4.11      The Government hopes to create greater employment opportunities
in the rural areas by investing larger sums in agriculture, animal production
and related activities. The new Five-Year Plan (para. 4.01) includes 27
agricul-ural and agro-industrial projects and 13 different animal production
pro, c( . .
4.12      The Government is improving and expanding agricultural education
and training to provide a larger number of well-qualified technicians and
extension agents, as it considers such staff to be essential elements in its
rural development strategy. The lack of well-qualified middle-level cadres
was a major constraint to the successful implementation of agricultural and
animal production projects during the three-year Interim Plan (1976-1978). A
shortage of these staff was also a major constraint to the implementation of
the Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 207-NIR), as noted in the Project Perfor-
mance Audit Report (SECM 78-424) dated May 12, 1978. Moreover, weaknesses in
agricultural extension are now impeding the implementation of the Maradi Rural
Development Project (Cr. 608-NIR).
4.13      Agricultural education and training.  The Government has been
improving the quality and expanding the output of its agricultural training
system. Toward this end, the Government has obtained assistance from France
to develop programs at the ESA for higher-level agricultural and animal
production staff and the school is moving into new and better-equipped accom-
modations.
4.14      The UNDP and the FAO have assisted the Government in improving
middle-level agricultural training through a program for the development of
the IPDR in Kolo. The main features of the IPDR development program are:
(a) an increase in capacity from 200 to 450 students; (b) the phasing out
of training for assistant technicians (Grade B2) and the introduction of
separate two-year training programs for extension agents (Grade C) and four-
year training programs for technicians (Grade B1); (c) improvements in the
content and the methods of instruction and the creation of a unit for produc-
ing instructional materials; and (d) an increase in the relationship between
classroom work and field work, including development of viable farming enter-
prises and a strengthened field study program.
4.15      The annual output of the expanded facility would be 100 extension
agents (Grade C) and 50 technicians (Grade Bl). The proposed capacity and
output of the school are based on manpower projections shown below and in
Annex 4.2, the stock of extension agents and technicians which will be avail-
able in the years immediately following the development of the school, and the
space available at the IPDR site. The requirements for agricultural personnel
will be sensitive to the implementation of ongoing projects and may vary from
the estimates. For all these reasons, the school has been designed to meet
about 70% of the short-term requirements for technicians and extension agents,
as shown below. The Government will review the supply of and demand for these
personnel as the IPDR is fully developed. In light of the actual implementa-
tion of agricultural projects, the Government will determine later whether it
should further expand the output of middle-level agricultural personnel.



- il -
Estimated Average Annual Requirements for
and Supply of Middle-level Agricultural Personnel
Technicians       Extension Agents
(Grade BE)            (Grade C)
Estimated average annual
requirement, 1975-1984                   70                   140
Estimated average annual
shortfall without IPDR                   70                    65
development
Estimated average annual
shortfall with IPDR
development                              20                    40
4.16      The Government has received a considerable amount of assistance in
implementing the IPDR development program. A Technical Consultative Committee
under the MDR, and including distinguished agricultural educators from Algeria,
the Netherlands, the United States and Niger, is advising on management,
curricula, and staff and student recruitment. An ad hoc Nigerien coordinating
committee, representing the eight agencies hiring IPDR graduates, has helped
to address the Technical Committee-s recommendations.
4.17      Switzerland, Belgium, the EDF, the Netherlands and the United States
are financing various parts of the IPDR development program (Annex 4.5),
including technical assistance for program and staff development, fellowships
for staff development, and renovation, construction and equipping of a small
number of academic and communal facilities.
4.18      The major gaps in completing the development of the IPDR are techni-
cal assistance for management, additional fellowships for staff development,
development of the school farm, and renovation and construction of staff
houses, dormitory space, and additional communal and academic facilities. The
Government has proposed these for inclusion in the project.
4.19      Training for animal production staff.  In 1978, the Government
directed its attention to the training of middle-level staff in animal produc-
tion and requested Bank Group assistance to expand and improve existing
facilities. The UNDP and the FAO assisted the Government in formulating a
program to upgrade the teaching staff of the EAATEN, improve the EAATEN
curriculum, upgrade the level of technician training, and double the present
output of middle-level staff. Under this program, a new school will be
constructed at a rural site and five branches for practical training of
students will be established in rural areas, in association with livestock
development projects.  The Government has proposed that the project finance
the development of the new animal production training school.
4.20      The capacity of the new Animal Production Training School (ECE) will
be 204, compared with about 100 for the EAATEN, and its annual output will be
50 extension agents (Grade C) and 25 technicians (Grade El). The capacity and
output for the new school have also been based on estimated manpower require-
ments and the estimated stock of personnel which will be available after the



- 12 -
school is developed. The estimated requirements for animal production
personnel have a sounder basis in ongoing projects than do the requirements
for agricultural personnel. For these reasons, therefore, the school would
be designed to meet the estimated average annual requirements for animal
production personnel, as shown below:
Estimated Average Annual Requirement for and
Supply of Middle-level Animal Production Personnel
Technicians       Extension Agents
(Grade BI)            (Grade C)
Estimated average annual
requirement, 1979-1983                    25                   50
Estimated average annual
shortfall without further
development of middle-
level training                            25                   35
Estimated average annual
shortfall with develop-
ment of new animal pro-
duction training school                    0                    0
E.   The Bank Group's Lending Strategy for Education and Training
4.21      The Bank Group's role.  The Bank Group has not financed any educa-
tion projects in Niger. Although discussions on education were held with the
Government intermittently since 1972, a change of Government in 1974, subse-
quent changes in senior governmental personnel and differences concerning
priorities for investment prevented progress toward the financing of an
education project, as noted in para. 1.01.
4.22      About 50% of the lending program for Niger in fiscal years 1978-80
was directed to the rural sector and seven IDA credits have been approved for
that sector. During the next five years it is expected that lending will
continue to focus on rural development, that there will be substantial invest-
ments for project-related training, and that there will be another education
project.  The Bank Group has not financed any public administration projects
in Niger, but has recently appraised a technical assistance project aimed at
improving development planning and project implementation.
4.23      Long-term strategy.  The Government's long-term objectives for
education and its strategy for achieving them (paras. 4.02 and 4.03) are
generally sound. In view of the extremely low level of educational develop-
ment, likely Bank Group assistance for Niger during the next five years,
and the appropriateness of the Government's educational aims, the Bank Group
over the long term should assist the Government in expanding access to basic
education, improving the quality of education, and meeting priority manpower
requirements. To address these objectives, the Bank Group should help the
Government to (a) strengthen the ministries responsible for planning and



- 13 -
managing education and training; (b) expand the facilities for primary educa-
tion; (c) upgrade and expand the training of teachers in both general and
vocational fields; and (d) develop key vocational, technical and professional
education and training programs. The Bank Group should also assist in address-
ing manpower issues by including project-related and sector-related training
in all Bank Group-assisted projects for Niger.
4.24      Short-term strategy.  The Government was not prepared until recently
to seek Bank Group assistance for developing the formal education system, but
did seek Bank Group assistance for financing projects in training for agri-
culture and animal production. For these reasons, the Bank Group is focusing
its assistance in the short-term on meeting priority manpower requirements in
agriculture and animal production and on setting a foundation for future
lending which could meet additional long-term objectives noted above. Support
for the training of rural development workers would address some of Niger's
most important manpower requirements and would be an essential part of on-
going programs to improve the agricultural training system and the provision
of support services to rural areas. Support for educational planning and
civil service upgrading would help the Government to better define long-run
approaches for dealing with key human resource issues and would be a first
step toward further Bank Group involvement in these important areas.
V. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives
5.01      The proposed project has three primary objectives and would assist
the Government to:
(a) improve educational planning and prepare future education projects;
(b)  formulate policies and programs for upgrading key civil service
personnel; and
(c) upgrade the quality and expand the output of middle-level tech-
nicians and extension workers in agriculture and animal production.
B.   Project Summary
5.02      The project would be implemented over the period 1981-1987 and
would comprise the following components:
(a) Educational Planning and Project Preparation
Technical assistance, fellowships, and equipment to assist the
Government's work in educational planning and project preparation;



- 14 -
(b) The Public Administration
Technical assistance to assist the Ministry of the Civil Service and
Labor to establish a training directorate, review the needs for up-
grading civil service personnel, formulate and implement pilot
upgrading programs, and prepare upgrading projects;
(c) Agricultural Technician Training
Construction, furniture, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance,
fellowships and initial operating costs for the development of the
school farm for the final phase of expansion and upgrading of the
IPDR, Kolo;
(d) Animal Production Technician Training
Construction, furniture, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance,
fellowships and initial operating costs for the development of a
school farm for a new animal production training school to be
located in Kolo; and
(e) Project Management
Technical assistance, equipment, and operating costs for project
management.
C.   Educational Planning and Project Preparation
5.03      To strengthen the local capacity for educational planning and project
preparation (para. 4.04), the project would finance (a) 3 man-years of techni-
cal assistance for a specialist in educational planning and project prepara-
tion, (b) 9 man-months of fellowships for the training of Nigerien personnel
in educational planning and project preparation, and (c) 3 man-months of
fellowships in school-mapping. The project would also finance two man-years
of architectural and educational consultant services for the preparation of
education projects and a modest amount of equipment and materials for educa-
tional planning and project preparation activities. The technical assistance
personnel would work at INDRAP in close cooperation with the Ministry of
Education's Planning Unit. The objectives of this work would be to (a) assist
the Government in developing an educational development plan based on the
objectives for human resources development defined in the National Development
Plan; (b) suggest strategies for related educational development; (c) assist
in the identification and preparation of projects suitable for local and/or
international financing; (d) develop syllabi for the introduction of elements
of educational planning and school mapping into the training programs for
educational personnel at the University and the normal schools; and (e) train
counterpart personnel in educational planning and school mapping techniques.
The Government gave assurances during negotiations that it will submit to
IDA for review by December 31, 1982, an interim status report on the IDA-
financed educational planning work and that it will submit to IDA for review
by July 31, 1984, a final status report on this work. In view of the Govern-
ment s desire to appoint an educational planning specialist as soon as possible,



- 15 -
it has asked the UNDP and Unesco to finance the services of this specialist
for one year from April 1, 1981 until the project begins to finance the post
(para. 4.04).
D.   The Public Administration
5.04      The project would finance 6 man-months of specialist services
to assist the Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor in (a) establishing
a training directorate, (b) reviewing the needs for upgrading middle- and
upper-level personnel, particularly in the civil service, and (c) formulating
upgrading programs and preparing future upgrading projects. The work of this
specialist would complement the work of UNDP-financed specialists who are
helping the Government to review civil service structures, procedures and
training. The IDA-financed specialist would pay particular attention to up-
grading programs for civil servants who are implementing development projects.
The specialist would also assist in establishing a framework for carrying
out additional training activities which are being considered for financing
through the proposed technical assistance project. The Government gave
assurances during negotiations that it will submit to IDA for review by
September 30, 1982, a summary report on the IDA-financed public administra-
tion component.
E. Agricultural Technician Training (IPDR)
5.05      The project would finance construction, furniture, equipment,
vehicles, technical assistance and fellowships to complete the ongoing multi-
donor program of upgrading and expansion of the IPDR (para. 4.14). The project
would add 160 dormitory places to the 240 existing places and 50 being financed
by USAID (Annex 4.5), thus providing for a total capacity of 450. The annual
output from the expanded facility would be 100 extension agents (Grade C) and
50 technicians (Grade B1).
5.06      The project would also finance renovation of 19 staff houses, the
construction of 24 new staff housing units, a new technical teaching block
and technical drawing room, and further expansion to the multi-purpose hall,
dining room and recreational facilities. The Institute's 45-hectare teaching
farm would be improved through the provision of water supplies, new buildings
for the storage of harvested crops, seeds, fertilizers, tools and the purchase
of additional livestock. Equipment would be provided for cultivation and
post-harvest operations and the project would also include initial operating
costs for three years for the development of the improved school farm. The
IPDR intends to recover the teaching costs related to the school farm by
operating the farm on a commercial basis.
5.07      The Government is trying to create opportunities for women to
increase their participation in the rural development process, and the project
would support this effort by providing 40 places for women in the total of 160
new dormitory places.
5.08      The project would assist IPDR staff development by including 18 man-
years of fellowships for future teaching staff in specialized areas of the
curricula, including land utilization, economics, seed selection, cooperation,



- 16 -
animal health, and fish culture. The project would also provide 0.5 man-years
of consultant services that would be used for the planning and implementation
of four short annual in-service training courses in basic sciences and mathema-
tics to help newly appointed Nigerien staff teaching these subjects to adapt
the content and method of their instruction to the needs of an agricultural
training institute.
5.09      The IPDR does not have a sufficient number of administrative staff
to manage the school adequately at full development, and its new status has
not yet been formalized by statute. IDA has already approved the draft of
an appropriate decree and it should be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed IDA credit that the Government has issued a decree setting out an
organizational structure and financial and accounting system appropriate to
the school and acceptable to IDA. The Government gave assurances during
negotiations that it will appoint by September 30, 1981, qualified candidates
for the posts of Assistant Director and Chief Accountant of the IPDR. The
project would include 4 man-years of specialist services to assist the Director
of the IPDR in introducing and implementing the new organizational and finan-
cial structure.
F.   Animal Production Technician Training
5.10      The project would finance construction, furniture, equipment and
vehicles for a new Animal Production Training School ("Ecole des cadres de
l'elevage"-ECE), to be located in Kolo (para. 4.19). It would have a capacity
of 204 and 204 boarding places, of which 20 would be for women. The new school
would have an annual output of approximately 50 extension agents (Grade C) and
25 technicians (Grade B1). The project would also finance the construction of
20 staff houses and one guest quarters.
5.11      The curricula presently used at the EAATEN would be substantially
revised and the school will change the heavy bias toward veterinary medicine
(para. 3.19) to allocate at least one-third of the available time to animal
husbandry and pasture management. The four-year technician training course
would include the introduction of new subject matter such as rural building
techniques, the economy and sociology of pasture management, the use of local
languages, vehicle and cold-storage operation and maintenance, solar energy
applications, and methods of extension. During the fourth year, students
would undertake individual and group projects with specialized field studies.
5.12      The school would give much greater prominence to field work.  For
this purpose the project would provide tents, one for accomodation and one
for teaching, at Tahoua, a Tuareg grazing unit, at Zinder, a Peul grazing
unit, and at the ranch and pasture management center in Ekrafane. Students
would also undergo field work at the fattening station at Tiaguirire and the
multiplication center at Toukounous. This work would be organized by a
full-time Director of Field Work and would also be supervised in the field
by other staff members. The project would also finance for three years the
initial operating costs for the development of a school farm, which the school
will operate on a commercial basis.



- 17 -
5.13      The project would also finance (a) 17 man-years of technical assis-
tance for the introduction of new curricula, the establishment and implementa-
tion of field work programs and the teaching of new subject matter in the
areas of animal production and pasture management; and (b) 9 man-years of
fellowships for overseas tr;aining of Nigerien teaching staff. In addition,
the basic science and mathematics specialists who will work with the staff of
the IPDR (para. 5.08) will also work with the staff of the ECE for 0.5 man-
years.
5.14      The administrative and financial structure of the new school has not
yet been formally defined.  IDA has already approved the draft of an appro-
priate decree, and it should be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
IDA credit that the Government has issued a decree setting out an organiza-
tional structure and a financing and accounting system appropriate to the
school and acceptable to IDA. The ECE will be smaller and less complex than
the IPDR, and the EAATEN staff should be able to administer the ECE without
any project-financed assistance for school administration.
5.15      After the opening of the ECE, the Government plans to use the EAATEN
for short in-service training of animal production personnel and improved
accommodations for a variety of animal production services, including those
dealing with aviculture and animal parasites. The existing facility would
also house the Central Veterinary Pharmacy and the audio-visual unit and
library of the MDR's Livestock Service. The veterinary clinic at the EAATEN
would continue to be used. Between now and the opening of the ECE, the
Government will also examine additional options for the long-term use of the
EAATEN, including the possibility of converting it into a secondary school.
G.   Project Management
5.16      The project would finance furniture, equipment, and the operating
costs to the MDR of implementing the IPDR and ECE components. It would also
finance four man-years of technical assistance to help the MDR with project
administration, finance and procurement. The Government has already appointed
an MDR official to serve as Project Director for the IPDR and ECE components.
The MFP and the INDRAP will implement their components without any financial
assistance for management under the project, and the INDRAP, the MFP and the
MDR will maintain separate-accounts. All project accounts would be audited
annually and the project would finance any audit fees (para. 7.04).
H.   Evaluation
5.17      The Government gave asssurances during negotiations that it will
provide status reports on the educational planning and civil service upgrading
components (paras. 5.03 and 5.04). The international consultative committee
(para. 4.16) has responribility for the evaluation of the IPDR development
program and makes regular recommendations on changes needed in policy and
implementation of the various donor contributions. Long-term evaluation of
IPDR development would be carried out primarily under the UNDP/FAO review
system, since the UNDP/FAO are coordinating the overall IPDR development
program. The MDR's Central Evaluation Unit, which would be partially financed
under the second Maradi Rural Development Project, would carry out additional
evaluation of both the IPDR and the ECE. During negotiations, the Government



- 18 -
gave assurances that it will submit to IDA for review within four months of
the end of each calendar year any evaluation reports written during that year
concerning the IPDR and the ECE. The Government also gave assurances during
negotiations that it will prepare and submit to IDA for review within six
months of the closing date, a final evaluation report on the overall project.
VI. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Cost of the Project
6.01      The net-of-tax cost of the project is estimated at US$27.0 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$16.1 million. The breakdown of cost
by project component is detailed in Annex 5.3 and summarized below.
-----(CFAF million)----    ----(US$ million) -----        % of
Project Item           Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign  Total   Base Cost
I. Educational
Planning           5.5      94.1      99.6    0.1        0.4      0.5       2.3
Il. Public Admin-
istration          --      10.5       10.5    --         0.1     0.1        0.2
III. Agricultural
Technician
Training (IPDR) 753.6    980.4   1,734.0    3.6          4.6     8.2       39.2
IV. Animal Produc-
tion Training
(ECE)         1,019.0  1,446.4   2,465.4    4.8          6.9    11.7       55.8
V. Project Manage-
ment              27.0      82.6      109.6    0.1       0.4      0.5       2.5
Base Cost      1,805.1  2,614.0   4,419.1    8.6        12.4    21.0      100.0
(a) Physical                                                                                     *
Contingencies    173.1    193.3       366.4    0.8        0.9      1.7       8.3
(b) Expected Price
Increase          321.1    563.4      884.5    1.5        2.8     4.3       20.0
TOTAL COST           2,299.3  3,370.7   5,670.0   10.9        16.1    27.0



- 19 -
6.02      Estimated project costs by category of expenditures are shown below.
% of
Category of          (CFAF million)           ---- (US$ million) -----      % of    Foreign
Expenditure   Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign  Total   Base Cost Exchange
Site
Development   377.6       334.9      712.5   1.8        1.6       3.4       16.1        47
Civil Works  1,203.0   1,066.8   2,269.8   5.8           5.0      10.8       51.4        47
Prof. Fees      107.9      161.7      269.6   0.5        0.8       1.3        6.1        61
Furniture        20.9      187.8      208.7   0.1        0.9       1.0        4.7        90
Equipment        20.3      182.5      202.8   0.1        0.9       1.0        4.6        90
Consultant       --         73.5       73.5   --         0.4       0.4        1.7       100
Services
Technical        48.8      439.4      488.2   0.2        2.0       2.2       11.0        90
Assistance
Fellowships      --         88.3       88.3   --         0.4       0.4        2.0       100
Operating         8.8       79.1       87.9   0.0        0.4       0.4        2.0        90
Costs
Local            17.8       --         17.8   0.1        --        0.1        0.4         0
Salaries
Base Cost    1,805.1   2,614.0   4,419.1   8.6          12.4      21.0      100.0        60
Physical
Contingencies 173.1       193.3      366.4   0.8        0.9       1.7        8.3        53
Expected
Price
Increase       321.1      563.4      884.5   1.5        2.8       4.3       20.0        64
Total
Project
Cost         2,299.3   3,370.7   5,670.0  10.9         16.1      27.0       --          60
6.03      The cost estii,ates for civil works are &or January 1981.  These
estimates are based on the unit cost of construction contracts awarded in 1979
for similar buildings and on the Government's official cost revision figures
of 16% for 1980. The cost of new construction per square meter at the IPDR
and the ECE ranges from about US$675 for classrooms to about US$775 for staff
housing. It is not appropriate to calculate the construction cost per student
place of the IDA-financed IPDR component, as the project finances only
additions to an existing institution. For the ECE, it is estimated that the



- 20 -
construction cost per student place for academic and communal facilities
would be about US$9,300. The unit costs of construction per student place are
high compared with those for similar institutions elsewhere in West Africa.
This stems primarily from the very high construction costs in Niger due to the
country's landlocked position, high transport costs, excess demand in the
limited local construction industry, and the large share of construction
materials which need to be imported. The base costs per ECE student for
furniture and equipment are US$580 and US$3,200 respectively. These base
costs are also relatively high compared with those for similar institutions
in West Africa, due primarily to the high cost of transporting goods to Niger.
Based on recent recruitment experience for other Bank-assisted projects in
Niger, the net-of-tax cost of technical assistance is estimated at US$7,500
per man-month, including salary, allowances and overhead.
6.04      The project includes physical contingency allowances of 10% of the
base cost for civil works, furniture and equipment. The overall allowance for
price escalation is about 19% of base cost plus physical contingencies. This
is calculated on the basis of the following annual price increases over the
project implementation period, for both local and foreign costs:
Category                            1981   1982   1983-86   1986-87
Civil works and professional fees                9%    8.5%    7.5%        6%
Furniture and equipment                         12%   10%       8%         7%
Fellowships and technical assistance              8%    8%      8%         7%
Local salaries                                   10%   10%     10%        10%
6.05      The estimated foreign exchange component of US$16.1 million repre-
sents about 60% of the total project cost of US$27.0 million. This has been
calculated as follows: civil works, 47%; professional fees, 60%; furniture,
90%; equipment, 90%; consultant services, 100%; specialist services, 90%; and
fellowships, 100%. The Government would waive customs duties and taxes for
all goods and services procured under the project.
B. Financing Plan
6.06      This project would finance the final phase of a long-term multi-donor
program for the development of the IPDR (Annex 4.5). The Government has been
implementing this program since 1977 and most other external financing for
IPDR will be disbursed by 1981. In addition, each of the agencies involved is
financing a distinctive part of the IPDR development program. For these
reasons, the project costs discussed below refer only to those elements of the
IPDR program which this project would finance.
6.07      The financing plan for the project is shown in detail in Annex 5.3
and summarized in the table below. The proposed IDA credit would be for
17.3 million Special Drawing Rights (US$21.5 million). The UNDP would provide
US$2.5 million for the project, and the Government would provide US$3.0
million.



- 21 -
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million - net of tax)
Component                         Total Cost    IDA       UNDP   Government
I. Educational
Planning                           0.47        0.47        -          -
II.  Public Administration                0.05        0.05        -          -
III. Agricultural Techni-
cian Training                      8.25        6.81    0.40       1.04
IV.  Animal Production Training           11.72       8.86    1.50        1.36
V.  Project Management                    0.51       0.49        -       0.02
Base Cost                         21.00       16.68    1.90       2.42
Physical Contingencies             1.75        1.72        -      0.03
Price Contingencies                4.25        3.10    0.60       0.55
Total Contingencies              6.00        4.82    0.60       0.58
Project Cost                      27.00       21.50    2.50       3.00
6.08      The IDA credit and the Government s counterpart funds would finance
100% of the net-of-tax cost of all project components except technical
assistance and consultant services for the IPDR and the ECE. The UNDP would
finance 100% of the net-of-tax cost of one man-year of consultant services and
21 man-years of technical assistance for the IPDR and the ECE.
6.09      The IDA credit would finance 80% of the net-of-tax cost of the
project, and would finance 86% of the foreign exchange cost of US$16.1 million
and 70% of the local cost of US$10.9 million. The total external financing
would amount to US$24.0 mi4lion, equal to 89% of the total net-of-tax cost of
the project. The Government's financing of US$3.0 million for the project
would equal 11% of its total net-of-tax cost.
C. Procurement
6.10      Civil works valued at US$18.1 million and furniture and equipment
valued at US$2.6 million would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in-accordance with IDA-s guidelines. Items of furniture
and equipment which cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 equiv-
alent, or which are not suitable for international competitive bidding, would
be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA; or, for items below US$10,000 and for which potential suppliers are
limited, by inviting quotations from at least three reliable suppliers whenever



- 22 -
possible. The total value of items procured by these methods would not exceed
US$200,000. Domestic contractors would be given a preferential margin of
7-1/2% in the evaluation of bids for civil works. Domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the
c.i.f. price of competing imports or the total applicable customs duties and
import taxes, whichever is lower.
D. Disbursements
6.11      The proceeds from the IDA credit would be disbursed against the
project items indicated in paragraph 6.08, as follows:
US$ million
(a)  85% of total expenditures for civil works              14.0
(b)  90% of total expenditures for professional fees         0.6
(c)  90% of total expenditures for furniture                  1.1
(d)  90% of total expenditures for equipment                  1.1
(e)  100% of total expenditures for technical assistance   0.9
(f)  100% of total expenditures for fellowships              0.5
(g) 90% of total expenditures for operating costs,
including local salary expenses                         0.6
(h)  100% of the withdrawn project preparation funds         0.7
US$2.0 million of the proposed credit would be unallocated. All disbursements
from the credit account would be fully documented except for local staff sal-
aries and other operating expenses under (g) which would be against certified
statements of expenditure, the documentation for which would not be submitted
but would be held by the MDR for review by IDA supervision missions. An
estimated schedule of disbursements is at Annex 8 and a statement concerning
disbursement against statements of expenditure is at Annex 9. The total
amount of disbursements against statements of expenditure is estimated at
US$0.7 million, representing about 3% of the credit amount. Disbursing
against statements of expenditure for expenses under (g) is reasonable since
these expenses would be for project agency operating costs and they would be
small and numerous. In addition: (a) the working papers for the project
clearly define the expenses that would be eligible for reimbursement against
statements of expenditure, and (b) the Government's institutional and account-
ing capabilities for managing statements of expenditure are expected to be
satisfactory (para. 7.04).



- 23 -
E. Project Recurrent Costs
6.12      In 1983, when all project components would be fully operational,
the Governinent's annual recurrent expenditures on agricultural and animal
production training would increase by about US$0.5 million, which is equal to
about 4.5% of the 1979/80 budget of the Ministry of Rural Development. The
incremental cost to the Government of employing the increased number of
graduates to be trained at the IPDR and the ECE would be about US$0.25 million
per year, equivalent to about 2.5% of the 1979/80 budget of the Ministry. The
project would not generate significant incremental recurrent costs for the
Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor or the Ministry of Education. The
recurrent budget of the Ministry of Rural Development grew from 1975/76 to
1979/80 at an average annual rate of 15% in current prices, and the recurrent
budget grew at an average annual rate of 25% during the last two years. The
Government should not face any major problems in financing the recurrent costs
generated by the project, since these incremental recurrent costs will be
relatively small compared with the anticipated recurrent budgets for the MDR.
The Government gave assurances during negotiations that it will make adequate
budgetary provision for the operation and maintenance of all project institu-
tions and that it will submit to IDA for review not later than October 31 each
year the proposed budgets for the IPDR and the ECE.
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Preparation
7.01      PPF advances of US$200,000 and US$500,000 and the UNDP/FAO financed
the preparation of the major project components and the start-up of project
management. The educational planning and the public administration components
are fully prepared and ready to be implemented. The appraisal mission reviewed
the educational specifications for the IPDR and the ECE and the sketch drawings
for the IPDR. During negotiations, IDA reviewed preliminary drawings for both
the IPDR and the ECE, and the architectural consultants are now preparing the
final drawings and bidding documents for both institutions, based on agreed
revisions to the architectural program. Construction of the IPDR and the
£CE should begin in December 1981 and be completed by May 1983.  Technical
assistance and fellowships should begin in mid-1981 and continue until mid-
1987, when the entire project is expected to be completed.
B. Project Management
7.02      The Director of INDRAP, working with the Ministry of National
Education, and assisted by the project-financed specialist in educational
planning, would administer the educational planning component. The head of
the training directorate of the MFP would be responsible for the public
administration component.
7.03      The Minister of Rural Development has appointed the Chief of his
Training Bureau to be responsible for implementation of the IPDR and ECE
components of the project (para. 5.16). He would be supported by a Nigerien



- 24 -
assistant accountant. The technical assistance specialist to be provided
under the project (para. 5.16) would assist the Chief of the Training Bureau
in implementing the project and would have particular responsibility for main-
taining the project accounts and organizing procurement. Given the importance
of having local staff available to complete preparation and initiate implemen-
tation, it should be a condition of effectiveness that the Government has
employed in its Ministry of Rural Development staff, whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to IDA, to serve as Project Director and Assistant
Project Accountant.  In addition, the Government gave assurances during
negotiations that the Ministry of Rural Development will employ at all times
during the Project implementation period staff, whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to IDA, to serve as Project Director and Assistant
Project Accountant.
C. Accounts and Audits
7.04      The INDRAP, the MFP, and the MDR will maintain separate accounts
and all accounts will be audited annually. The MDR has considerable exper-
ience in keeping accounts for IDA-assisted rural development projects, and an
experienced accountant coordinates the financial affairs of these projects.
Given these factors and the provision in the project of a specialist in project
accounting and procurement (para. 5.16), the Government should be able to
follow acceptable standards of accounting and auditing for the projects. The
Government gave assurances during negotiations that it will (a) maintain
separate accounts for the project, including separate accounts for certified
statements of expenditure; and (b) retain until one year after the Closing
Date and make accessible to IDA all records concerning withdrawals against
certified statements of expenditure. The Government also gave assurances
during negotiations that (a) the accounts will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and the audits will be conducted in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied; (b) it will furnish to
IDA within four months of the end of each fiscal year (i) certified copies of
the project accounts and (ii) an audit report of such scope and detail as IDA
may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on dis-
bursements against certified statements of expenditure; and (c) it will
provide IDA with such other relevant accounting and auditing information as
IDA may reasonably request.
D. Technical Assistance and Fellowships
7.05      The project would finance a total of 31-1/2 man-years of technical
assistance (Annex 6.1). During negotiations the Government gave assurances
that the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment of
these specialists will be acceptable to IDA.
7.06      The project would also provide 28 man-years of fellowships (Annex
6.2). During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will award
the fellowships to suitably qualified persons, and will prepare and submit to
IDA by September 30, 1981, a list of candidates and their proposed training
programs.



- 25 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.01      Educational planning and project preparation.  The new Development
Plan (1979-1983) is only a first step in the Government's efforts to make
education and training more supportive of the country's social and economic
objectives (para. 4.01). This component would follow up on the Plan and
assist the Government in the long term by promoting a review of education and
training requirements, the formulation of programs to meet these needs, and a
more efficient use of funds allocated to education and training. The direct
benefits of the component would be (a) the training of local staff in educa-
tional planning and school mapping, (b) the formulation during the project of
improved plans for the development of education and training, and (c) the
preparation of future education and training projects.
8.02      The public administration.  Weaknesses in public administration
seriously impede both the planning and implementation of the Government's
development program (para. 2.10). The modest expenditure under the project
for upgrading civil service staff would aim, in the long term, at improving
the quality of the public service and the efficiency with which Government
funds are allocated and expended. The direct benefit of this component would
be the establishment within the MFP of an institutional capacity to upgrade
civil servants in both the technical and managerial aspects of their work.
8.03      Agricultural and animal production technician training.  The deve-
lopment of rural areas is the Government's first priority, there are critical
shortages of qualified extension workers (para, 3.14) and the lack of these
workers has impeded earlier development efforts (para. 4.12). The proposed
investments in the IPDR and the ECE would address these issues. These invest-
ments are essential complements to other investments in rural areas and will
contribute to improved implementation of more than 40 rural development
projects and an increase in productivity and production in rural areas. The
direct benefits of the investments in the IPDR and the ECE would be (a) an
increase in the number of middle-level technicians and extension staff to
serve in agriculture and animal production, and (b) an improvement in the
quality of training offered to these rural development staff.
B. Risks
8.04      Educational planning and project preparation and the public admini-
stration. These components are small and should pose no implementation
problems. Moreover, these components have been fully prepared, they complement
ongoing activities, and they are ready to be implemented. Normal selection
procedures should encourage the recruitment of suitable technical assistance
personnel and fellowship candidates. The major risks for these components
concern normal constraints to timely implementation and the difficulty of
recruiting good technical assistance personnel.



- 26 -
8.05      Agricultural and animal production technician training.  There
are three kinds of risks which could affect the overall success of these
components: those which might (a) impede timely implementation, (b) affect the
efficiency of the training to be provided, or (c) limit the effective field
work of graduates of the project institutions. The risks of implementation
delays have been reduced by establishing effective management arrangements,
by the advanced state of project preparation and by the Government preparing
decrees clearly defining future administrative and financial structures for
the IPDR and the ECE. The risk of inefficiency in the conduct of the proposed
training programs is limited by the fact that considerable care has been taken
in the design of the IPDR educational program and a strong international team
has assisted the Government in developing the IPDR (para. 4.16). The ECE
program has likewise been carefully prepared, and the operation of the ECE
would benefit from the experience gained at the IPDR. A related risk is the
possible shortage of competent and motivated teachers for the two institutions.
However, the project-s staff development plan is comprehensive and would allow
for the eventual replacement of all technical assistance personnel by Nigerien
staff. The effectiveness of graduate extension workers could be constrained
most directly by poor motivation, the structural weakness of the extension
services, and limited recurrent financing for extension work. The improved
quality and relevance of training, coupled with a strong Government commitment
to rural development, as well as improving access to inputs necessary for
their work, should motivate extension staff. While the extension services
will continue to face problems for many years to come, they are being improved
under a variety of rural development projects and by the improved quality
of extension and supervision staff. Recurrent cost financing (para. 6.12)
should not be a major problem since rural development is the Government's
top priority, and the capacity and output of the schools has been based on a
determination of the manpower requirements of ongoing and planned priority
projects and of the Government's ability to finance the work of the graduates
on an annual basis.
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a) submit to IDA for review by December 31, 1982, an interim status
report on project-financed educational planning work and that it
will submit to IDA for review by July 31, 1984, a final status
report on this planning work (para. 5.03);
(b)  submit to IDA for review by September 30, 1982, a summary report on
the IDA-financed upgrading of the civil service (para. 5.04);
(c) appoint by September 30, 1981, qualified candidates for the posts of
Assistant Director and Chief Accountant of the IPDR (para. 5.09);
(d) submit to IDA for review within four months of the end of each
calendar year any evaluation reports written during that year
concerning the IPDR and the ECE (para. 5.17);



- 27 -
(e) prepare and submit to IDA for review, within six months of the
Closing Date, a final evaluation report on the overall project
(para. 5.17);
(f) make adequate budgetary provision for the operation and maintenance
of all project institutions, and submit to IDA for review not later
than October 31 each year the proposed budgets for these institutions
(para. 6.12);
(g) ensure that the Ministry of Rural Development will employ at all
times during the project implementation period staff, whose
qualifications and experience are acceptable to IDA, to serve as
Project Director and Assistant Project Accountant (para. 7.03);
(h) maintain separate accounts for the project, including separate
accounts for certified statements of expenditure; and retain until
one year after the Closing Date and make accessible to IDA all
records concerning withdrawals against certified statements of
expenditure (para. 7.04);
(i) ensure that the accounts will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and the audits will be conducted in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied; furnish
to IDA within four months of the end of each fiscal year (i) certi-
fied copies of the project accounts and (ii) an audit report of such
scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request, including a separate
opinion by the auditor on disbursement., against certified statements
of expenditure; and provide IDA with such other relevant accounting
and auditing information as IDA may reasonably request (para. 7.04);
(j) ensure that the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment of all technical assistance personnel financed under
the project are to be acceptable to IDA (para. 7.05); and
(k)  award the fellowships financed under the project to suitably quali-
fied persons, and submit to IDA by September 30, 1981, a list of
candidates and their proposed training programs (para. 7.06).
9.02      As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit, the
Government should (a) issue a decree establishing an organizational structure
and a financing and accounting system for the IPDR which is appropriate to the
school and acceptable to IDA (para 5.09); (b) issue a decree establishing an
organizational structure and a financing and accounting system for the ECE
which is appropriate to the school and acceptable to IDA (para. 5.14); and
(c) employ in its Ministry of Rural Development staff, whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to IDA, to serve as Project Director and Assistant
Project Accountant (para. 7.03).
9.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project consti-
tutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA credit of Special Drawing Rights
17.3 million (US$21.5 million) to the Republic of Niger.



-28 -
AVRIL, V. 1981
t  t 856/  t I CSP   t! T0T~~~~~~~80   0F 048410  t  t  t       :06!.  tfio.P61,   t             t       t3EC   t         tAvpp  1SEC
g  :0601782  DEOOTEO:POILIC  t E92C00106    :11008.  î PR!. ---------------E- tOTO - -SC8-0E8CH:PROGRE0S-t -SEC. :3)0U - tHIOHER9
t     pt6)t  TOTEU. l 00 T TA% REOFRE tUB CICENROLLIT(  6                        tE6OSA&R    9U    RT   tEV.O0IOLNOE83L
t  n'IRRITE  (pU8tICtDflOT00011j 9F ReEN.OCTEDt &C610                 IONItRT   PRwo rt8ELATrUN :V0O6  VROtR70   IER :810
t 90. tPîOES   180 tu   aTO       t       lot        I   OF,  , NET   ,PRI.3Cr.StEACOO   TÜ r6P/ [1   E, tNT tEO.OO
TRI8ILLI.t  <05:3:  080V>   t  FO~~EU. tPRRî   sEc. 61.t80ULT3)t  (CII :YOLEIIflEE    t  818 t(3                      f     ER    t (x)     t
8T18    lm    7.%  5.620G         5.3Y    8.5EV   28! Y519 y IV    99            98        9 313     250       2.00        99D       Sîo      î90    16.650
085808      ~~~~78  33,5 9~ 7,17o     7. IF   îé.7      29    39    23      99       9",      13D         21        2.0F      lOî        92       16      22.-0 0
- 3186869 F.REP.18   61,4   8,600  9,8F   10,2F .        99       900      130        ...        ...       1.20       94       220    12.00~~~1  10  9~  22  12  0
28966  75 1(1,6   0,850    4.38   20.7E    000V~~~~ 370! 1100   99        990        99C       23         .30       90;8                2C     2.9
NIT6RI.508       8   j.9    .9 m         9.a E    3.8E    20    35    28        99      96         9 3       IV9       2:,F       9         82        13     123
E18  1RL0N60    73 1 3.1   8,2000         9.3 ,      "      39    28    29      99       99        99        26          ,         99        67       1       28.0 0
6088 Il8,    8,003                         7.2    t48       9       8    (        9       9          9        l         1.5          9E       i2lI l 1100
M.ZAN   76    8.I  a,2 ,10        8.      1.0 .    23    29    12       99       99        89        lb          .         997       65ç      1       3.0
O.î.Ë            75   56,    1,780         7.1     39       2      A      0      9        99     -    .        42       2.0         .    - 66          17     2.0
0,3.1.       76 2~~5$601.    %,70O    7.61   13.90         .        14      99       90        9V        72H       -...        99        97       196    01.00
zqMEECE          70    9. 1  2,s9o         2  . 6 1 0  .    31    26    2  1     866      99        920       21       2  .0        70E       80      27      15.0 0
I81088E          18    3.10 2,b2oG        9.1    13.90    43 4  13   180    98          1060!       990       35       ...         958       6509    19       15.87Y
70870081.        77   2:7   0,50           3.     1,8        1    21    19       7          2       s91                 ,         -7w       -3         ?       90
19AN518à         7 521.    1,8             .0      68       St    1       3 y 90e        10(       ...       2                     90        89       22      10.0
IEs l             u    5.00 2,990G         2.88   15.28    89 q    220   15      98     11589       ,,        35A .t..9             .  ..     76:      30     17.689
8P810V-
8000818      7~~~~9 38e5   1,260      7.2    a.??    300   06(0  210    35H          soxo      05K?      37    -   .0(K-  3207-f  310             37K0     5.OOK0
88816       ~~~ ~~74 3,21    1800     1,25   56 OV    870   230   100    11          88074     7  00     930      25.0 8       8368      1120    398       0      78vy
10916698     78~~T  0     6  600      5. 4    19.0p    86   39    (3R    35          60.       70         31        9.0        50        20       22       1.50
BURUNDI1         78     8.       lb6       2. 2.z1K    866 330   21528                              u         î2        D.0        22          so      (6      05
0E80     76 77          31 .             219        3     83    201              60        aS                              la8.  2    90      278      0.92009Y
0.1.8.oo         7b     y1.80   28  3       .00   17.00    9g   16790                               29        690                                                  "Y 8 Ox  70  .1
068              754    80      Î20F       3.0O    1  .0.0    758   2            13:      29360    30         658 y      .2                    2080   I0       0.08
ONG0)5          78    1,3F    300F        6.0    19.3      80    32    2         03    1338        63        63         .0        8          33      22         ,0
1840             78 58,         800       9530    35,  26                        480     73         80        30?       ...        82        89       171?     15.00
ilpIPTE          7     1.        3        3.3      1.0.                                  30         .                               ....9 
18306            78    0.5F 2,5800        500   ?0.80    230    90   110    ..          1000       25C        860       5.0;:      188       31v      210      0.29v
1à88814          76    0,.5     lIa        3. 3   11.5      86    25      6      10      27~       90         33       . ..        Ç2        13       25C-
70  ~~W  9900    ...    29.77    039~1 T   22    -00501                   68        00        .           1848     35(Y    160 Il      ,090
001588           76    8, 7     2800      8.168o ...        50    31    30       ..,.    300       68         "5       12,0F        86         1  38   26       '4.0 0
18080 COAST    76    7,0        610       t:0    2  3     10    33    86    1 3   98     502       86         43        7.0        47        170      26       I  8
61808Y           79   15,.3    380        5,9    16.        7      15    18       5      92         78        80        6.0        81        19       2        1.
LIsOTHO  79    1.3  34o  0.598  20.0    21    29    23    ~~~        ~~~      ~~~        ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~52  68  S  1  -9  0   -15  25  23     0  .9 0
LIER»A         77     1,7     830        31:7   12.29     23    13    2b       30      818        ..        S'        8,0        7o        20       1
8688    CARâ    77    a.0       280       8.20   2u.0M    53    28    19         50      9           3        88        o0         5         l         3       17
'Ai88         79     59       21        22        .0             3    23      25?      59        17        628       5.04        116        8x     20       0,31
P4AL             75    5,F        9F       82      30               70   F8   10F        220F       ..        uF       9,5F        50F         60     21.
88u9118818       71    1,3F    320F        8  .20 y20.0     .     .    .        10A       17XY      ..        22A        .          .          3< Y   288
860010346  16   ~~~~0.(   tEs        8.1    12,1      SÇ0O                         98        99         28        85          "93      US       3        15
6080000  76   18.2  320    6.3    15.2       398   806   130    28        683       35        39        6.00        80        20o      21       4.00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  e bX  5  96:0    0X 2
5108Co           77      8, 12     0       2.4    22.2      9      83 il- 9 IR   28        7        30        39       (00           31               28
NIGERIA          78   75,0F    380F       8,100 28,200   235   16Y  420    ..              90!      ,.        380        .          .         09      20        .8
88E£           7       .0      10        3.20    2 200          .23                     2         ,..       51        ...        ..          2      13       0.2309
RWANEDA          77    5,8      820       9.0F23.0D    86          3      0      1        2         .,         9       10.0        20        10       21       1.5
6(19RA LEONE   73    3.OF    200F         3.8    . 23.4     31    3ô    30       153     380       81         32        8.0E       68        13       21       0.38
3688LIA          78    8,0      185       2,8    11.0       95    10    21      10       8         ,           2        8080S                         15        1.00
SUDAN           776 15,9        2g0       u.5    19,9       48    36   lb       20       3         78         37        3.6        13        182      28        .28
0W8ZILAN60       78     2,5     5o0       6.16   12.2       33    33    23      65       920        9         3)         .o        66         23       0        2.300X
71028528  78   17.1    230        6.46   15.0      83    19    10       660      Q6        s?        5         3.0          9         4      200      0.3
7580             77    2,8      300       5.5    2à.5       30    28    21       1        8         8          6        60         5                   8       20
0381318          79    68 1,130           7.      190       82     3       18    b?     10          80        39E       6. 0       30A       £0'      30        ,00
US6ND04          75   11,6      230        3.0    510 384EV  '*    2E             58     50                   si.    3 2E ,,       188         2~     218      0,6
UR80ER4SLTA    77    5,8        118       3.8    33,        31    16    32        SC     î3 ~   21            S       280          1          2       2         .
y08             76    3,       10        6.0 .0    0       8     26    25      15       860       mu        82        2,0         81        13.      27       1.001.
08A0 RE                 3.0     54          .4O40            0    23     22      4        90       80         40        7.0        19        17       22       1.90
CENTRAL AMERIC8 AND THE CAROIBBEAN
8888888  79    3,2   2.780     ~~~~~~~~6.56   19.1  36,   36    Il    93       99        97        28        8.0        97         75      19          .
8888 s0       76    0,2   1,620        8.      220.1    430   31C   16       99D    1060        99        21         3.0        99        9oo      Il
£0578  8808      70    2,î    1689e       6.       3.0e    370   270   30        90g3o                         2         ,          7         9       19      1.0
SA8             78    9,5   1, 000       83       1.0.        .. 6                      98        98        22         27         96        65       13      15.08
DOOINICIN R89.72         ,8     7o0        3.2    13,9      42    24    22      51       80         1         50        30         63        1        28       70
EL  SALVADOR    77    8,1       570        :,0    27.2      68      6    27     t2       880        32        39        2.2        81        2         1       700
îuTiMAL»        73    6,23    7003       î.*    1.0        95    23    18      g7       68        26        3           .          9         6       2         ,9
68073l           76    6,1      200        1.0     8,0      61    21    Il      208      290        Il       560        3.3        62         14      ..          ,7
(40538*3  5    2,9  800  8.2    18.6     620 150    90    60           70        30        35        3.0        66         l        17      80
4888(08          76    2,1   1,070        9.8    16,2       3      33    22      8tE     QIy 9                          8.          8        6        25A      87,98
MEXIC0           75  59,9   1,05          3.108  13.00       1    20    2       76       (20       31         86        3.0        63        3500     20       89E
NICARAGUA        7a   2.3       000        3     . 0 14.0   61E   13E  13E    9080       61        24         44        2.009OE                       3         .3
la88    7      1,864  1.220       5.                 28   13H   13      628      97        82E       32H       3.0        659       89       34H    20.00
0815008E t T. 77    1.1   2,165  8.5    18.1  8~~~~~8 32    20   95       90        91         30        3.0        89        62       28
880ENT168   ~~~76   76,7   1,910      8.4    11.8       83,4  310   16H    93        89        92         17        2.2        87        31        8      23.00
8011638  76    5,8  315F  9.0    17,5F.   .     .     .408        ~~~~      ~~~~       ~~~       ~~~        ~~~~ ~ ~~~         ~~83H  290  28  5F ... 8 10
Oi>?858    ~~~ ~~~~78    0,80    51F  .8    1,1 8G3                18SO    836      920       3         335        .          9        62        8       (0
988828L7                5,0       598      1,     182  8Y23    IO7   20          ..8.2                         6        16          7         2         2      70
0183  79   16,00    8806  4,301  31.70V   1*34  329   150   ~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~       ~~72  111X0  36  390Y  3.0  72  38XY   2300   18,1Y
CO050308         14    0,601   b13704      2.9,  5,3         86    3     23 20   98       93        ,,        28C       ...         ..3       .x       10c      ..
0CE6DE20 7.   7        71230 2,900         4.6D   19.        So     8     50     78       8 ...,...   ..2.8 __2    ..1                        33X     2.      1230



>1  00-.30v   JSUC0 ~  UïJ1 N" iC 691T -RS   (0061))T                                 ANNEO  I  PAGE 2
APRIS.0  1961
s  os t P          rso   :6 lUL O0F PUBLIC s                              :8                    À ,   :AoPOO             t         :SEC   t 
:046)965  oî6OTffO:SuSBLYC  s OsOiCoSOULN    ZL1TE6-    P 68I    C(14PLE-  :351J-  SOhTAHPD,ES:SEC.  gSTU-  :mIG81Rt
AI O    tT  100,  EDJ 1  06,  .RF OCIjR8(            SACS       :ENR8OLu:110S        :OENTS:SAîkP6  IN:I06  RATE  :ENROLL:DENTS:INROLL:
t   (1>63E1;  (OOO;05T008    LL(OCATÈOt   PATEI   A   28OO   t9010  9019:91    :916A100,  ;FW0M PR),tNA~T1OI tPER   tRATIU  t
spop, IPRIcES:  FoP,         t  T       t       'OS       OC   US OF   NET   !PP!,SCH,:TEAC8S  TP GNp/  :T,) SEC,.             NET   :TEACH- GR0S3:
VOt9OILIS,:  (030.):  rp.î9,         ED0,  2PAÎ,  SEC,.0tOLT)    S    :CYOLE(Z).EP    s(PITA                                              -ES   () tR    z(t)  
.                                          tzs.                                                              
s 4))  M    (2)  1  ~~(3)    i4()          (5)            6         7          P         (QI      (11)        (j))       :1(I)   5023)  1<14)
A310 AMD 001EANIA
AE~~HA6SST06  176  0~t,S     gpo";      .6 s         1, 6  0?    19    (S      1 2      990        69         3 7       3,oî         o,2        E x     1 7       1,0 0
BANGLADESH        70   80,60        9~01     1.2    20,2        O44y   229   2a9    23D       360        ...        4800                  ...        23x0    28          .
1NDI4             75 à20.4G    14o1>         2,689,                            .     2B       60          ,          S                     .          90      26       2,31
IN5ONEIAO         7 8 136,1       360        2,4      9O       2 6   32G   (50    6 2         9 2        9R         3 2       3.0         7o         1 9      1 7      2.00
130N              7 3   33,46G 20401         3 ,3    12,6      500    16   (2     5           17         7A        3 2        5,0Q                   2 4      32       4,32C Y
ÎRAO          7    3,5   1396            ,7    1b,.M       .,    .,    .        26C      9306       ,,          2        ..           ,         3510    260        L a,79
JORDAN            7 7    2,3      997        o,SK    7 ,0K    25P   508    SP    5 0          870        8 1        32        2,.0        9j1        68       22      10 .64
KOPEA        ~74   3 7,0   1,202       281l   :7,5         35    29    3o       9 3     1020        GA Li      49        2 . 9       9          6 0      AS       1 8,0 0
LEOANON           72     3,?0  1,0700        3,5    10,0        39    6 0    (0 CI   38       8 6           5       (9Q       2 .0        t 3        260j     2 5     2 3,0 0
94 AS80A          US   (2,6z.     000        6,.7    26,1      AL 2   31    US       600o     95         Q 3        30l       3,.7        78         40       28        3,0 0
NEP A             PJ   533        (OQAH      P. 6     8,1       27    10    36       198      57         3         3otK       2.30G       . .        2 16     24K       ...
060AN              7 2    0,0F 2.0 00        j,761   3,8        96      -            2 0      20         39-        27F       7.0         .,         0,0 9(x   q          
P6NO3T00          79   70,0         7 O      2, 0     7,~2      39    26    27       Z4       540        56?        46        2.0E       .,.,        20v      1 7      6,00F
PAPUA  N.G,       75    2,06    qo5î        13,6    (6, 1       58    16ê    2 15    32       57? 7            136           (1 .0        9 0        12x7    2 4       0.90?
PHILIPPINES    7 6   03,20    9210 o         2.5    (6,9        7 3    (5    1 2     80L         ilAX    ,. .       36       1 5. 0       . ..         6 X    . ..    2 1.0 0
SINGAPOAF         76i   2,.36  2,56o0        279y   9,29    599   391   17 lY        72A    10909        726        310y      . . .       992        0409    2m        7,ô8v
snioÀ             78    7.91      9 00       4.1    1 0 .3      39    25    2ù       5 8      092        8 0       35         2,.0        608        45X      221     1 2 .60
THAIL AND         7 7   84,       610io      4 0,19   2 0,0        55 30    1 5      067      8 3        30        35         5,30o       70o        28       25       3,.0 0
1U8419            7 3   40,96  1 ,0106       5,600  2 0,60 .D y  ,    .. ..   . ..,.,        85v        ..        340y              .,  ,..         2uy      2715Y    5.839
959119            73    5,00    3096         0,3      >s,0     056   216   238       1 0      150        jRA       36         5,.0        75          2v      : 9      0.0588
vEpEN P,,           6    1        2 80       6,6      .. .     57    24 I     0      2 0      89î        48        30         5,.0        964       21vx      24       0 . 10
SUMMARP FOR DEVE(12PING 000'SPIES:
NUM8818f  CO 0N1976E00                      89      9 3      Q)    36?   88       92      160         7 8        99I          lA/       82        Q6        96        86
N8C-::83    (3,8-   (20   08    (3-    (5-                                               013-                                        (8 .0,5(i 3-  0 16-  ( 1,5-    (S  .- (B- ( ,01 -
120I 3o0    94      72)   50)    99)                    q   1 330)X       6 9 I 2 5. 0  )  iOn      97   )  4 5)    4 1,0)
eUARTILES:UPPC'R                          5,8    2 1,2 a     69    33    22       87       98         91         A?2          6        9j         648      25      1 1. 0
610064:I                     4,~2    (4, .0    42    2o    18        57       84         65        31            4        68         2o       22       3 ,4
LOWER                        3,0    12,6        36    21    13       25       56         33        29            2        61         il       18       1.0
0Y'0008;,... 0A039  UN6A9ALARLO                      6:1970  DR REFORE               M=CURRENT P8(CF9                              soORcîSt
-   MAGNiTUDe  NIL OR NEGLIGOALE 0v(I971                                 '.GP                                              -- 0--6
3   QUE3TOONSBLE                         0:1972                          P=SNILUOING F09EIGN AI0                         COjLUMNSt1  AN)> 2 WURLD  BANK ATLAS
t   I(CL00ES PA87..TI9E S900EN93  S;1973                                 5=CENTRA1  G0V9,  06LY                                               £8  088£  MISSIUNS
64   00861400  WIOTH PR("0R9             Eelq74                          9=9)N)S0R9  [IF E0(CATION  090E) 06L8                      3 TU 14 1I8R> MISSIONS
4*,   USD60  816014                        (vi975                          3:831  66D 09610  G,,VT, 01NEY                                        AND/OR UNESCO
GZ1976                 ~~~~T=EOCLyDING CINTRAI GflVt,                                        STATISTICAL
HelA57                          UANUALIC UNLY                                                        YEA8800K
K:3978                          A(1INCLU£ING PA'VASE  EXPENOITURI
î:1979T                         X=ONCLUO(N6  0V1RA1ED ST10ENTS
M=1980                         Y9UNES000  SOURCES
OEPELFJORONT~ 9074016N 06000001519.60090   TOI 60S03  C?l 5iE PRISENS  D6T6,CWÙO3S-NATIONAL COM60R150N SHOULO  bE APPRUACHED  I29H
tRUAT CAUSIO'., 067A AIESENTED ON THoI  A4001  06910  H090  9116  COLIECTEîo  L6801,LY Bs  THE B04K  915S5(06S FA0p  G0VERNME4T SOURCES; 181
9E92INDeR  ARE STAFF 03TI6ATIo  18F DgolA FR06  14E500, î0908(S  -i69E 41E8  801F TO STAs908911Z  SE?0N0ITI(NS AND  I(SHIN  4IMITS, TUI 08E0K  THE
ACcuRACI  OS  1T91 06(0l                             DATAA103,C    0   ARE STOLL  )8010FOC7 (6, SE61R0L OI3POCTS  461  7(1  8A64  0$ 1(36816G OU IMPROvE TbFR
P0O6R0S~0IN 3 91 O,COeS9IL 0F rî8(0 PERAi100L .5nk8, IN 7l-il '-SI 0F TMîSI DATA, THE 8f(îL9'ING 60J11 FIOCATIONS 3001>1L> MI 01(64N ON
110'100000o"  6  DEFINCD ON THE 99611L  INCLUTEs 'cL EDU000600   060  T86I6(60, F0R6AL AND N0N-F08841;
(2('?90MAR9  îouJOA7Ol 9EFEPS TO ODOCATïUN  ATTH NI'IORT  LEVEL  AND  31S00eNDAQY"  EDoCASOÛrN 8EFE4S Tu oLL EDUCATION  AT THE SIOUNDARP
L116E1                OF60-153   ToPE  (I E6E6080,  510(N1)1A, A08R01>L5U(1L)  
(3) LI051660y 8ATE3'CC(0s1î        AR8 -IF0N 0BT0)6NED URS9  00689               NSSIS,S  IN4  MON9C00W,T8IE3  1619  01  LINLY APPRUOXIIATIONS ANIS 21  IS
SC,UBTFUL 5HoT  ;09  0N)6006  0EFTNITION OF   US180'   0   0116E  FOIO(10  C0M3ISTt6NTLY;
US)P01p 00         -0940008   IN ELC0o,TOm'e0015,3,6~ 860 5) AIFOR 50 61L CAPITAL k,0  RICU8PRSNT  1XPE610TLJoES SFV05E0  Tn E01>009I16  8Y
05USo-001L~F 97     19000               >510Z.i    l'  N   !0)  'ric TO 3(9101 E~l AND 0199  9164  65C06TAGE CF EL     0IL       0C106ENE16     LE  FUIL-TIME
18E  oPP900Rià90  6CM >01, 649 OF3-C 19PR!VesI  10  T114    H18  691E 0(116  S00411(C   5  A ,)DE 96901>, 3F 1890r8 IN THE DIVELOPING
00050130.0   O    6>'.r-   1\6 TOIE 600(152910000495.1 n0-01090   iQL                                         A(lt ND E140LLMENTS). EMPOLLMENT FIGUPES
000940703 413£ CON 0611010E THE 049003,



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1979
PRIMARY                          LOWER SECONDARY              UPPER SECONDARY                POST SECONDARY
YEAR                1    2    3    4    5    6                 7    8    9   10                1   1 2   13        14   1 5         16         1 7
GENERAL EDUCATION                                                                                                                                         SCIENCE AND LETTERS
TECHNICAL EOUCATION                                                                                             MAR ADI l ECHNICAL t YCEE
l-EACHER EDUCATION                                                                 _            _        AHOUA, TILLABERRY                                                             O
{ }-* ~~ZINDERI
eE]-~~TEACHER'S COl LEGE
AGRICLJLTURAL EDUCATION                                                                      >D{IEAATEN IPDR
-EAATEN IPDR
SCCOÜL OF AGRICU JLTiCH
PUBLIC ADMINISl RATION
EMPLOYMENT                                                             CA1E1;OCY D             CATEI;ORY C      CATEGORY R                             CATEGORY A
D YEAR
*  EXAMINATION                                                                                                                                               Wod Bi-,k  21463
X



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
ENROLLIEWT BY SEX AND YES   01F JTUDY, 1976/77
Fffectifs nar sexe et nar  nn    AltetlAp, lQ76/77
University/ Université
CT                       Upper Secondary/ Second degré
2ème cycle
2e
W   enseignementgénéral/general education
enseignementtechnique  t-chnical education                      eLower SecondarySecond degré
enseignement normai/ t eacher education                                                                      1 er cycle
5e                                            lryt
6e
C2
Prinarv/ Premier degré
CE1
CP
i                   t    I       I  I ,   :  I             I          I-                         I                 I; 
26000           20000                       10000                 2000   0    0  2000 4000                          14000
Mkale /GARCONS                                  Female/FILLES                        March 1981



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
GOVERNMENT RECURRENT EXPENDITTJRESON EDUCATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
1975/76 - 1979/80
(MILLIONS CFAF, CURRENT PRICES)
Depenses de fonctionnement de l'Etat au titre de l'éducation et du developpement rural
1975/76 - 1979/80
(Millions de FCFA, prix courants)
1975/76        1976/77        1977/78       1978/79       1979/80
Total Government Recurrent Budget/                        22,141,205    28,415,786    30,404,000   35,474,255   46,145,733
Total du budget de fonctionnement de l'Etat
Ministry of Education Recurrent Budget/                    3,582,115      4,167,525      5,008,770    5,785,175    7,762,522
Budget de fonctionnement du Ministère de
l'Education Nationale.
As % of Total Government Recurrent Budget/                   16.2%         14.7%           16.5%         16.4%          16.8%
En % du total du budget de fonctionnement de l'Etat
Ministry of Rural Development Recurrent Budget/            1,002,260      1,157,420      1,325,040    1,636,945    2,048,535
Budget de fonctionnement du Ministère du
développement rural
As % of Total Government Recurrent Budget/                    4.5%          4.1%            4.4%          4.6%            4.4%
En % du total du budget de fonctionnement de l'Etat
Source:  Ministry of Finance, Bureau of the Budget/Ministère des finances, Direction du budget.                     March 1981



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
GOVERNMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURESON EDUCATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
1978/79 AND 1979/80
(MILLIONS CFAF, CURRENT PRICES)
Dépenses d'équipement de l'état au titre de l'éducation et du developpement rural
1978/79 et 1979/80
(millions de FCFA, prix courants)
1973/74      1974/75      1975/76       1976/77
Total Investment Expenditure/                                  1,337         1,222        2,576         5,762
Total des dépenses d'equipement
Investment in Education/                                          155          105          472         1,689
Investissement au titre de l'éducation
As % of National Investment Budget/                             11.6%         8.6%        18.3%         29.3%
En % du budget d'equipement de l'Etat
Investment in Agriculture and Forestry/                           288          320          506           505
Investissement au titre de llagriculture et
de la foresterie
As % of National Investment Budget/                             21.5%        26.1%        19.6%          8.8%
En % du budget d'equipement de l'Etat
Source:  Ministry of Finance; "Status of Credits at the end of September"/                        March 1981
Ministère des finances; "Situation des crédits à fin septembre".



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
CLASSIFICATION OF CIVIL SERVICE PERSONNEL INVOLVED IN RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Classification du personnel de la fonction publique affecté au développement rural
Grade / Niveau                                               Title / Poste
Agriculture / Agriculture                    Animal Production / Production animale
Ai                  Professional Agriculturalists I               Veterinarian / Docteurs vétérinaires
Ingénieurs d'agriculture
A2                  Field Managerial Personnel /                  Livestock Management Personnel /
Ingénieurs des techniques agricoles  Ingénieurs des techniques d'élevage
Bi                  Technicians / Conseillers agricoles           Livestock Technician /
Adjoints techniques d'élevage
B2                  Assistant TechnicianseConducteurs             Livestock Assistant Technicians/
d'agriculture         Assistants d'élevage
C                   Extension Agents  / Agents techniques        Livestock Extension A ents/
Agents techniques d'élevage
D                   Field Extension Workers / Moniteurs           Livestock Field Workers / Infirmiers
dtagriculture;Aides encadretrs                d'élevage; Surveillants d'élevage
Auxiliary Personnel / Auxiliaires             Hides and Skins Instructors/
Moniteurs cuirs et peaux;Infirmiers
auxiliaires
M 1
March 1981       
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
ESTIMATED REQUIREMENTS FOR ACRICULTURAL MANPOWER, 1975 - 1984
Estimation des besoins en cadres d'agriculture, 1975 - 1984
Category/Catégorie          Level/Hiérarchie   Requirements in 1984/   Existing Cadres, 1975/   Net Requirements 1975-1984/
Besoins en 1984          Cadres existants 1975  Besoins nets de formatiot 1975-84
Professional Agri-
culturalist/                      Ai                    81                          14                            67
Ingénieurs d'agriculture
Field Managerial
Personnel/ Ingénieurs des         A2                   160                          20                           140
techniques agricoles
Technicians/                       Bi
Conseillers agricoles
Assistant  Technicians/            B2                  800                          83                           717
Conducteurs d'agriculture
Extension Agents/                 C                 1,620                         179                         1,441
Agents techniques
Source:   Mission estimates based on/Estimation de la mission BIRD basée sur: "Projet cadre pour la reforme
et l'extension de l'Institut Pratique pour le Développement Rural (IPDR) à Kolo",
UNDP/FAO/PNUD/FAO Nov. 1977;  "Niger, Analyse et développement de l'éducation", UNESCO, May/mai 1979;
"Dynamique de l'emploi dans un système sahélien", le Niger; ILO/OIT, 1978; "Etat des besoins de Mise
en formation des cadres, 1978-1983, Ministère du développement rural.
March 1981



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
ESTIMATED REQUIREMENIS FOR ANIMAL PRODUCTION MANPOWER, 1979 - 1983
Besoins de formation des cadres de l'élevage, 1979 - 19A3
Category/ Catégorie                 Level/Hiérarchie   Requirements in 1983/   Existing Cadres, 1979/   Net Requirements, 1979-
Besoins en 1983          Cadres Existant, 1979    1983/ Besoins Nets de
formation, 1979-1983
Veterinarians/Docteurs                   Ai                      55                       21                           34
vétérinaires
Livestock Management Personnel/          A2                      58                        5                           53
Ingénieurs des techniques
d'élevage
Livestock Technicians/Adjoints           BI                      77                       il                           66              t
technique d'élevage
Assistant Livestock  Technicians/        B2                     162                      101                           61
Assistants d'élevage
Livestock Extension Agents/              C                      336                      101                          235
Agents techniques d'élevage
Monitors and Animal Health               D                      311                      211                          100
Workers/Surveillants et
Infirmiers d'élevage
Source:  "Formation des cadres du service de l'élevage, Niger", FAO consultant's report, Rome 1979.
Based on ongoing and planned investments of the Livestock Service of the Ministry of Rural
Development, 1979-1983./Rapport de consultant FAO, "formation des cadres du Service de
l'élevage, Niger", Rome 1979. Basé sur les projets en cours d'exécution et les
investissements prévus par le Service de l'élevage du Ministère du développement rural, 1979-1983.
March 1981



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
IPDR KOLO
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS, 1973-85
Effectifs réels et projections des effectifs 1973-85
Year / Annee                     1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Course I Programme d'études
Technician / Conseiller                                                                 35     67    102    172    204    239    250
(Grade B1)
Assistant Technician/                                            35     40      40      38     40      40
Conducteur (Grade B2)
Extension Agent   I Agent technique    61   100    154         163    163    182    200    200    200    200    200    200    200
(Grade C)
Source: Project Document for the Reform and Extensîon of the IPDR, Kolo, UNDP/FAO, November 1977 and Mission Estimates./
Projet cadre pour la réforme et l'extension de l'Institut Pratique de Développement Rural (IPDR) à Kolo, PNUDIFAO,
novembre 1977 et estimations de la mission BIRD.
March 1981



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT             - 38 -                                                  ANEX 4.5
Projet Education
IPDR - CONTRIBUTIONS OF OTHER DONORS
Contributions des autres bailleurs de fonds
DEVELOPMENT TO PHASE I AND Il
Developpement aux phases I et Il
AGENCY/ORGANISME                                 ASSISTANCE                         AMOUNT/MCTANT    IMPLEMENTATION PERIOt
mllllon)  PERIODE D'EXECUTION
UNDP/FAO/PNUD/PAO              Technical assistance, fellowships, equipment, and
recurrent expenditures. /Assistance technique,                2.0         1977 - 1983
bourses, équipement et dépenses de fonctionnement.
FAO and Switzerland/           Construction of 699m2 for a general science
FAO et Gouvernement Suisse    laboratory, a staff house, and a storage barn./                   .4              1979
Construction d'un laboratoire de sciences générales,
d'une habitation pour le personnel et d'une remise
d'une surface totale de 699 m2.
FAC                            Technical assistance: 6 personnel for the crop
production department./ Assistance technique                  1.8         1977 - 1982
6 spécialistes pour le département de production
végétale.
Belgium/Gouvernement Belge    Technical Assistance of 8L'2 man-years and associate
experts for the UNDP/FAO component; 4 fellowships;
construction of 240m2 for 2 classromms, 1 store for
teaching; furniture, irrigation equipment; topograph-
ical supplies; teaching material./ Assistance technique    1.2                 1978
de 8,5 homme-années et experts associés pour la
composante PNUD/FAO; 4 bourses; construction de 2 salles
de classe et d'un magasin pour le matériel d'enseigne-
ment couvrant une surface de 240m2; mobilier, matériel
d'irrigation, fournitures topographiques; matériel
didactique.
European Development Fund/    Two technical assistance personnel and 14
Fon8 Européan de               fellowships|/ Deux spécialistes de l'assistance                 .5         1978 - 1982
Développement                   technique et 14 bourses.
USAID                          Five technical assistance personnel, consultants
for evaluation, 13 fellowships; construction of
classrocms, farm facilities, 50 dormitory places,
kitchen and dining room; renovation of 250
dormitory places; furniture and equipment for
offices, workshops and the ecology laboratory/               5.0          1979 - 1983
Cinq spécialistes de l'assistance technique,
consultants chargés de l'évaluation, 13 bourses;
construction de salles de classe, installations
agricoles, dortoirs de 50 places, cuisine et
réfectoire; rénovation d'un dortoir de 250 places;
mobilier et équipement pour bureaux, ateliers et
le laboratoire d'écologie.
Governaent of holland/         Two technical assistance personnel./ Deux                      .1          1979 - 1981
Gouvernement de Pays Bas        spécialistes de l'assistance technique.
March 1981



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Ed ...tfo.
COST SUMMARY TABLE - NET-OF-COST (0S$ thousand) I
Tablesu Sommaire de. Coûts - HTT (milliers de SEU)-
SITE           CONSTRUCTION       FURNITURE   EQIJIPMENT    PROFESSIONAL    FELLOWSHIPS   TECHNICAL         CONSULTANTS   OPERATINC   LOCAL          TOTAL
DEVELOPMENT                                                 PEES                             ASSISTANCE                    COSTS        SALARIES
AdenaRegeen    Travaux             Iob6ilier    Equipemen.t   honoraires      Bourses        Assistance    Consultants   Couts de    Salaires    Total
du Terrain                                                                                   Technique                     Fonction    Locaux
01 EDUCATIONAL PLANNING AND PROJECT PREPARATION
Planification de l'education et preparatios
des projets                                                                                               il                            15             249           200                                     475
02  PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Fonction pubIic                                                                                                                                                         50                                      50
03  AGRICULTURAL TECHNICIAN TRAINING
I.P.D.R.                                                  1,222           4,888              446           265            559            270             332            50           225                     8,257
04  ANIMAL PRODUCTION TRAINING
04.01  ECE                                                1,481            5,921             529           655            677            135           1,412            50            142                   11,002
04.02  IRRIGATION                                           690                                                            48                                                                                  738
05  PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Gestion du projet                                                                             19            35                                           332                           52        85            523
BASE COST/Cout de Base                                    3,393           10,809             994           966          1,284            420           2,325           350            419        85         21,045
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES
Imprevus sur quantites                                      338            1,081             100            96            128                                                   1743
PRICE CONTINGENCIES
InilatIon                                                   583            1,858             250           240            141            100             755            68            181        36          4,212
TOTAL                                                     4,314           13,748           1,344         1,302          1,553            520           3,080             800                     127,000L
1/ US$1 = CFAF 210                                                                                                                                                                                       March 1981



NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
Provisions pour imprévus
._________                          (US$ thousandi/milliers   ,e  $EU)-!/
SITE DEVELPM        BUILDING          FURNITTURE        EQUIPFENT       PROF. SERVCS       FELLOWSHIPS        EXPERTS          CONSULTANTS   I MT,OeI           LOI U         MIES    TOTAL PRDE    T
LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIG    LOCA   FDREIGN  COTA
CONTINGENCIES (AS   O DF FROJEET CDSTI)
UNFORESEEN                 j o) i, 10.0 (CG       0.          10.0 10       o 100    10.0   15,0       10,0   10.0         -       -         -
FRICE ESCALATION              I1,4   16.4        16.4   1b.4       23-7   23.7    2M.1   23.3          10.7   10.7       24.S   24.5       33,3   33.3       20.0   20.0       44.2   44.2       44.2   44.2
TOTAL                          27.2   27.2       7.2   27.2        35.2   35.2       34.   34.    21.0   21.0          23,0   23.1       32.5   3205       19.3   19.3       43.3   43.3       43.3   43.3
PROJECT COST (WITHOUT CONTINSENCIES)
00 oo S F,CFA              377,Q09  334,61  '103,O37 L0644   20 S72  1S7,S4S   20p,10  1I2,20 I2            I 71         -    8U.       40920  439,448             73,500    0990   79,110   12,800         o   0,ao62 2,614,00 4,419,161
<OOO 'S Uss                  1790    1,95 90     72      0E80      o9      095       97      060      "I4      770               4l0       233    7,93               350        42     377        80        o    as69  12048   2L,044
z FOREIGN EXCHANGE                        47.0              47,0              90,0              90.0              600 o            IQ0                90.0             100.0              90.0               0.0               59.2
CONTINGENCIES (AMOUNTS) 1
ONF IRE SEEN
(OMIS F,CFA              37.761   33,4M   I204  104684   _2Ql7    Z0              M l      S 02 1 1|0    1t,177       -        -        -        -        -        - _ _ _                                  172965  193384  3634. 9
(OlOIS 0s                  1I00     109  S 73  S0o              10   s 9          10       87   S 1-    77                     -                                                                               824       921    V45 °
<'RICE ESCALATION
(000>0 F.CFA            _          7.  206,6 7 1S50           1200   47.340    0934   44303   1 822  724133    _31    14  |                                                03   31           2237 5652 8344S9
(SUTT S U$                 309      274      985      873       25      225       24      210       5b       84       -       100       76      680                68       IS      163       37         O o   529      7.6S3    4,212
SO8TOTAL
(000O'S F.CFA           102659   9,38  327P.66  290040    j 347    66125        |       639555   2        391 0             20e65 N10   I4:,96                  14176     303       3       7;02         0  494302  706736 125037
(QOO)S'US$                409      434    1057    1381         35      310       34        303    10       161      =        100       76      680       -        6S       18      163       37          o   2303      3604    0956
7 FOREION EXCHANGE                        47.0              47.0              90,0             90.0               60.0             IO.O9                              100.0              90,0                0,0              b0.5
TOTAL PROJECT CGST (HITH CQNTINGENCIEèS)
(000O'S F.CFA             140909  h25099   30lQ3 gs6Ds4    219  2s3973   213342  246D7S  330454  19w                          109.160   04,01,3  0844             87,676   12,593  |13341   25502            Q'29914 337g36 s609998
<000>'O S 0|  2,287  | 2,020   7M286    6l401                     134    1209       130    11J72      621      932               e12 308   7 Y                       4         60      540      12   |         10,048   l6,052   27,000
X FOREIGN EXCHANGE                        47,Q              47.0              90.0             90.0             6b.O           1_ .0                900.0             100.0            f 90.0               Mo       _        509.
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES:   AS 7 OF TOTAL PROJECT COST   22.1    ,AS X OF PROJECT CIST WITHOUT CONTINGiNCIFS  20.3                                                                                                                       03/24/81
1/ Us$1  =  210  CFAF



- 41 -                                                  ANNEX 5.3
NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENT AND CATEGORY
Plan de financement par element du projet et par catégorie
PROJECT COMPONENTS                               TOTAL COST                                   US$ million
Eléments du projet                               (CFAF million)                               Million de $EU                      .
Coût total             TOTAL COST         IDA        UNDP        GOUVERNEMENT
(FCFA millions)        Coût total                               Gouvernement
I. EDUCATION PLANNING
Planification de l'éducation
EQUIPMENT/Equipement                                  2.2                0.01          0.01
SPECIALIST SERVICES/Assistance technique             94.2                0.45          0.45
FELLOWSHIPS/Bourses                                   3.2                O.O1          0.01
II. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Fonction publique
SPECIALIST SERVICES/Assistance technique             10.5                0.05          0.05
III. AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
Formation agricole
CIVIL WORKS/Génie civil                          1,283.1                 6.10          5.20        -              0.90
FURNITURE/Mobilier                                   93.7                0.43          0.40        -              0.03
EQUIPMENT/Equipement                                 55.7                0.27          0.24        -              0.03
PROFESSIONAL FEES/Honoraires                        117.4                0.56          0.50        -              0.06
SPECIALIST SERVICES/Assistance technique            80.2                 0.40           -        0.40               -
FELLOWSHIPS/Bourses                                  56.7                0.27          0.27        -                -
OPERATING COSTS/Fonctionnement                       47.2                0.22          0.20        -              0.02
IV. ANIMAL PRODUCTION TRAINING
Formation élevage
CIVIL WORKS/Genie civil                          1,699.4                 8.06          6.88        -              1.18
FURNITURE/Mobilier                                 111.1                 0.53          0.48        -              0.05
EQUIPMENT/Equipement                               137.6                 0.65          0.59        -              0.06
PROFESSIONAL PEES/Honoraires                       152.2                 0.71          0.65        -              0.06
SPECIALIST SERVICES/Assistance technique           307.0                 1.50           -        1.50               -
FELLOWSHIPS/Bourses                                 28.4                 0.13          0.13        -                -
OPERATING COSTS/Fonctionnement                      29.9                 0.14          0.13        -              0.01
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Gestion de projet
FURNITURE/Mobilier                                    3.9                0.02          0.02        -                -
EQUIPMENT/Equipement                                  7.3                0.03          0.02        -              0.01
SPECIALIST SERVICES/Assistance technique            69.8                 0.33          0.33        -                -
OPERATING COSTS/Fonctionnement                      28.6                 0.13          0.12        -              0.01
BASE COST/Coût de base                           4,419.1                21.0          16.68      1.90             2.42
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                             366.3                 1.75          1.72        -              0.03
Provisions pour quantités
EXPECTED COST INCREASE                             884.5                 4.25          3.10      0.60             0.55
Prevision inflation
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                              1,250.8                 6.00          4.82     0.60              0.58
Total provisions
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               5,670.0                27.0          21.50      2.50             3.00
Cout total projet
March 1981
NOTE: US$1 = 210 CFAF



- 42 -
ANSES6.1
NIGER - EWGATION PROJECT
Peojen Edacatten
SUPeARY OF SPECIALIST SERVICES
'raiteut yeen'tv,tetRe ees e"-r<ei4tee de 1i'uatevuetn technique
Prujeri  Cemnpuneee/                             Ttlue/                tinuer ef Speetalitet/    total  a---th./ahl    Strlting Date      Stary jOb de .ripptie/
E lesnt du pru l et                              t inte                WNtbre de dRt  ItaEtStC    Total tEtistis    Rate de deToeuua   a Dwaicpnirh  nnaiea dit tAne
6             9~~~~-aI    Advint nD foemnietien ef educattue plan
I Educational planning and   Educatiopal planntag  pecialistl   I                                       ~~~~and anuitE En PreePntng eduteEton pote tts I
lennr de  avi nuel délburaie  'u plan
E d r utif c to na  p i e n v   m'du e t o  t d ue a lt e n i p l a n nf c ai ong   p e a i e                                            d 'e n s e ig n e t e n t  e t   ei d e r   à   l u  p r ép a r a t i o n   d e
Piaeifiuaeion de l'edrraetun~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                                               P'
et prépavettun den peejett
tdutsninnai ced arehgneetteel                                         e24                 1-E3       Attist iD the preperatire uf a pse.ible
tonnai tant eertieesliorvioee                                                                        seeund edurattun prejeet/Alder ù la
det ctitan  pour preparpeon irepevui dd
du proljeen6vnT
6                 9-i         se8ii,agrdo  progras  an  pepr
Il lpgradieg uf eha publie            IpecalTit  i  upgvndigl                        1                                                     lng-nts- aPgradieg Prujee.tsAider le MFP
adinionranion/Perfectiemngitent    Sperialiote de peràet-onneent                                                                                                           -
do 1D ftinef.  prbliqan                                                                                                                  atiière de perfntîioeesne ne.   p er
dec projeta i long nete de pavdectttuneareui
pli igritulteua  eerioirn              Speuialitn  in  nane and8                                                                  -2         Arniet hie Direcetr  f the  DFIE te EantE
P..,                                                                                    p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cd firanlal aaor/Adrl dirot-ru  de
1eaieiegteroraeio- pour           edntninlratiee/toperteo                                                                               lnI  dent ie dPteie  de  Iedi e  des
lee tnonnieient aeeîtuler          adeinittranino et Plentne                                                                             1'nîee  fnoirtq           rr rird
question ...  nièe
Curnrulnentaevilten Con uparedîng        I ,ttheRtit                   6                 6-83      Attirt in pLauig and t-l-nting  turtsh
atheeatlr  aed noiereeoeaoierel                                                                    in-qervieeuoaroee f-or enaly apprinte!d 1eol oraff
torveens de eoaultaote prur la         1 teieoee                      6                 6-83      le eppliod nenieetite and  àrieeee/Aideo à lu
perfeccLonnenen  de plofe r .....                                                Pplueifieanire et  a  rire  e rpplloatiov de 4    gtalor
de osqtheatiqaenrei scneo   1/                                                                     derreurte durée ne cours d'eonri I l'tetertldn du
pers_nel nigérien _ouvelloaoet reonutU dent e
diseiplines don  thénatiqant et des nuieorer appliquéer
' uinial produionire nrainie/         lrenenr of ntrdies/                           1                        60rr6edZalAider le  ditr ofeheeur dEC in iCiAinerlererde f
Ferralleon pour les               IDreeneur des etndes                                                                                  urcl/ieledecu   el'Càini                          d
techntetens didievlRe                                                                                z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oaveaur erogrammen d'ente ignreonenue 
Incise ECI in tetredutinnEatur a i         p ihareaty
Frrtesnor of pathelne  a-d                   1                       48                 dq3                             c alhlo  n/Adr  t etlur  de à  n ru
pherneeg'/Preteseser de                                                                             urograt ee  dfeereigooewnt inétersnntn le pîaro±atoiogie
paninelegie net eiaraeolrgie                                                                        et la paîholugie
Proeînor et.if si1 preduetien/                1                       48                3           Atdist ECE iP ietdroduIng ne     rl          aoIei l IroduIe
Profe ee.r denoneet     uci o                                                                       Aider lECE a lotinter de ...nrrogruoara denegeten
inlérettaut lae ooe-  es-e
Plof ..... of p1qture Dn-getent               I                       4R                3-E3        Antint tEE it itnnvduring ueo turrirulu it puuture  uageretI
'rnfesreor ue pacerrp  ie eagen /ti Aidere l'ECV A insetiuer deinouveaux pregrartues d'e8seigte-eEE
V  Prouec1  nanageanon               Soeoialint De fineee  aed                      I                       48               g-e    -      nt  nhe i             rg                        t
leteir  du prejet                 adaUetstraeon/et Dperten Rieaoee
trIl ag  th, pr-r  ar d i tt aueuntn/Aidor  l   lirereurdr
et geetien                                                                                          Sureau de ghestio   d  projee au a eiv du  DR A gé-rer le prujet
et la uooptabilité du projet
1/ Theseoststanto weid ainu proide upgrading.our.en  fer proes-orsa te nie ECEI
Cen erperi  dote eraiene aresi le per_eenienewnl peur ler prfeseur    lECE.                                                                                                                191



- 43 
NIlGE  -  lOUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                   _______6 
Projet Muta.eion
fLYNARy OF FgLL  rd9pf
Taleueir- dss beurss
Pro jeun cospoesnd               *aPisd of sntdy/                   infr uf Pleei/  L_ne-.thie/    Startiee 45C.                   mal     q aitiuatiesu  et f.ll_/
Elt nte du o1euit                 Suet d'4tudea                       oksb ds. boursi.r       ois-hp_    0              t     JS-.I illittet    f           d   Courstir-                   cegtscecre        s
Idutstiotsl planning a1 d         Eduo-nional plsiin.g/                       1                                                    B 11-1  C.A. te  l  isa                             n          t
postol'i ptcsipscto d' sIo        PtorfiLceion d' dununnun                                                                          iusos e=tise.ts  seti Ls                attsd tifl anu cetur o nuer  puannîi=
st ppipscetipc des pcojete                                                                                                                                                  au toarsiar de soins its unur  Pe L'ap  etr
plieifiuatieg d= M
obol t sappingd                             I                    1            tLti               CA. te spcial stientss/                  Cuurterpsetcrailng=B  for fau rI  en ted
Cane agotaire                                                                                   Liteet  - sciants. usciada              ir6r apd recurn go htit pleoning unit 'Ponutti
b                                                                                                                                               les~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ onluee  de 1 titP en Os ridttoeirer son poses i
Il lncicultutol tech=leitla          Canageseci uf sgriuulnurol                  L                   24            I-tl              If.A fleagrionîcure /                     Pelîp2shi> foc IPDR lO1ecton uf tiudisD  -
tiairtc=cin dfratluc  our         Octsttrn  nd irsiin Ip                                                                           itsnrise se asieeguos                    georg  * 1 igent nniL  dcu trecîgur des Ceuades
les tocnttlctegclcoss    lesin de laeptto                                                                                                                          de l'un
agricole          tdelTV
Ec miccncecEdnccoong                        I                  24             1-82               C.A. ir anIut   .ispes  I                       hellpstthp for presto co teco   p roessor
Litenoe ets. pies setiasa                cf scinosice /         .ouee  pnur firctL ppoiessuc
Seed tels    ctsîd                          I                   24            10-82              B.eA.   sciants -                        reeip top pereo--         de besecteeor 
ponduceton de xsesec e
Oeterttotî uadioile/                        I                  60             10-81              6aoalsure t/                             Peelohep for persor to bsto- pricesece
pp   t r ns re                                            ccelZur4t                                o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f v1t.Ii ar  F-din- /  p-2ue   Wu   _Fe
PdPe ctdii..lcd edeicef
Ctoperanior^/rfrrérnetnta                  I                   36             L082                                                        F  i.hip f
C.A.  et  attic     f                    Pellosslir toc pi.u   ictetos         u
de <flecrlion ut de ppoduotuoP es.ePcuLtpso
Ptsh u-d ptiherlesdPC/cl  et               I                    24           1i-83                                /Fî11Pehip foi p                                  be-so  tuteconP
~~tstepuliuee   .                                              8.6. et soteoce f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~If..... 
PtscAcul=re                                                              B A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tic=nesciuces      ppoteistc of sucituliuiO  1Couoao tout toiser
Liee=ee e= se  ces            FP~u  professtur d'uepdculcurr
ues protro=epl/ d tutssn   de 1a          i                   24            10-83               n    c ea h"'"oeI-hiP for P--  Il-tuct/
iBcece et sciences                       erter Ln p.orfesseo    sdctîe.t de lu iaunpe
111 duiesi pLoduutiut  enottlotor    Caoauseenn pi enal pruduinion               I                   12            11-81                tuiror o   e o.tsOastp   aetee           PelPSChipt 12   erioFrtI  sctool ici
reiipgcirnaio= pour 1es           dutap ogo  troneg,entnNI-                                                                                                                  pereut   be Directur of StudLeiOî
tecloicteot d dleoupe            de le foposuior de ISIaege                                                                                                                  île poil Course durudes 6 licols de sddeccue
diLscteur det Feudes de heucr
libt-rY ttuditftnudee d                    1                   12             1-82                d.A                                      r1Flcthip fic  pseroc cous lib-1-ui    /
dorueentolists                                                                                    Licence                                  CoupSe pour forp- r ut bibliothtIicei -
docusertelistr _
AnSppl produetiorl/Zootech=ie   I              12             10-81                nuA  u- 00005  Prd:on                     petloesttP tor pepsoc t,. te pcufeleoc
Ininal productioo/rooneciinie  1                                          ru~~~~tcrcecac ooneocoe                 cf ecinal ecoducitio  /loucee potr foretrsu
ppntSessu=r de zoooteciniue
AelplOhip foc pato co 6e proigetur
AditfPI pr=duetipp/Zoorech=ie   I              IZ            11-83                hauî cacun en  pruducoci                  nf anise1 prod=cti==/Tourss pour forage un
Feteiltu1ce                                                     12           1lenàics.c                                                     ut= oeieelarv  ed3icîtPe /npuret puP nuorFPt
== ppoof.eSeu de sdoecine octOCciOotre
Oeiestroripy ndiotnedfiédotioie             1                   12            10-tS                Docior ofi ueerlcscy nl
veterippire                                                              Dpcre~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tutOvetepiouiee      o prof_ttut de oddecler rttioitelps
*ast=re hfiP6ge-nt/AgtoPast=ra~~l                       i      atI 10-5Z   1     1         O acee                           PeIFpil oetr  tcpeisoo to  la
gv                                                                                                                Ma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rttplnse eoocuocce  profeenor of PAsnuce e.ecocesetur
CIures PPYi pousPr un professsut
ofPenture  W-aogerseti/                                                                            bsre  =ee=                               Wdîee #t / inrliu   pu
12            10-86                 Oî                                       prilosttip tir parent to6P
agr=pastoralih6 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~dnnpstcl
lcunontcatdsoctui serette  1                   ~~~12          10-82                C.c  Icciuce                               slefcufeesooi pstuc
ut raseurs esnegsoentd                                                    Oaotpuee et sucette                      seougesaci'If ...  I  Corepu
Sccio-ecuiiislc ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~       ~ 1                                                                              pro8issetut-f...   dioetpeto =ll



- k4 -                                                  ANIW   7
ejet E ucatios
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calesdrier d'exec.tion
CALENDAR YEAR/Année Civile                                      1981        1982         1983         1984         1985         1986         1987
Eiénents                                                          K                                12 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   
C0FIONENTSTIîae5~~~~~~~rC                    112  3412              4        2   41  2 3  4. IT            412             1234
EFFECTIVE DATE OF TEE PROJECT/Date d'entrée ea vigueur en
CLOSING DATE OF TEE CREDIT/Date de clôture du crédit          l          l            -               -         -            - | _-+-| j           -
01 EDUCATIONAL PLANNING AND PROJECT PREPARATION/
planification de 1 education et Preparation duprojet
t-         ~     ~-4-t-J-  -i      i--
EQUIPHENT/Equipemnet                                              i--i
FeLLOI4SHIPS/Bourses-
EXPERTS/Experts-I
CONSULTANTS/Consultants              J               |
02 PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION/Fonctioa Pùblique                    i                         I          -          _                   -          -4
CONSULTIANTS/Consultants           - + 
03 AORICULTURAL TECF79ICIAN TEAINING (IPDR)
Formation agricole techaique
CIVIL WORKSlIenie civil                                                       -      31            -t-J
FURNITURE/Mobilier
EQUJIPMRNT/Eq.ipeaeat
FELLOWSNIPS/.ou.esii
EXPERTS/Experts                    -   J r _
CONSULTANTS/Consultants              |     J |_      i         _
OPERATING COSTS/Foactionaement
04 ANIMAL PRODUCTION TRAINING/Formatioa elevage                                                                     l
04.01 ECE                                                     r                                                  ]-i I     L I
EIVIL WORKS/Genie Civil             _     m                                                         I   i
FURNITURE/M.bilier
EQUIPHENT/Equipement
FELLOWSHIPS/Bourses
EXPERTS/Erpert s
OPERATING COSTS/Fonctionnement                          i
04.02 IRRIGATION
CIVIL WORKS/Genie Civil
05 PROJECT MANAGEMENT/Gestion de projiet                      i          - i  i                                                4        |  ..i     .
FURNITURE/Mobilier                                     t     +- -          t i
EQUIPMENT/Equipement                 q                  L     |;                        
EXPERTS /Expert.
OPERATING COSTS/Fnncti.anement
LOCAL SALARIES/Salaires locaux
Mtr~h 1981                                   ____         CIVIL WORKS:  ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN MORK AND~ BIDDIRO DOCUMENTS
EQUIPMENT, FURNITURE: PREPARATION OF LISTS AND BIDDINI DOCUMENTS
Bâtiments et VRD: Plans architecturaux et documents d'appel d'offres
Equipement, Mobilier: préparation des listes et documente d'appel d'offres
TENDERING AND EVALUATION OF BIDS:
Appel d'offres et évaluation des nffres
CIVIL WORKS: CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT, FURNITURE: MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, INSTALLATION
SPECIALIST SERVICES:  DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
FELLOWSEIPS:  DURATION OF TRAINING
Batinent et VRD:  construction
Equipement, mobilier: fabrication, livraison, installation
Assistance technique: dorée de l'affectation
Bourses: durée de la formation



45 -
ANNEX 8
NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
IDA CREDIT ACCOUNT
Compte du Credit IDA
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS (US$'000)
Calendrier des Décaissements (en milliers de dollars EU)
FISCAL YEAR 1/         QUARTER     DISBURSEMENTS    ACCUMULATED         UNDISBURSED
_  DISBURSEMENTS     BALANCE
Année budgétaire 1/   Trimestre   Décaissements    Décaissements         Solde non
accumulés          décaissé
1982                 3           700                700            20,800
4           200                900            20,600
1983                1            300              1,200            20,300
2         1,100              2,300            19,200
3         1,100              3,400            18,100
4         3,100              6,500            15,000
1984                1          2,600              9,100            12,400
2         2,700             11,800             9,700
3         3,700             15,500             6,000
4         2,400             17,900             3,600
1985                 1           400             18,300             3,200
2           300             18,600             2,900
3           200             18,800             2,700
4           400             19,200             2,300
1986                1            300             19,500             2,000
2           900             20,400             1,100
3           800             21,200               300
4           100             21,300               200
1987                 1            50             21,350               150
2            50             21,400               100
3            50             21,450                50
4            20             21,470                30
1988                 1            20             21,490                10
2            10             21,500                 0
March 1981



- 46 -
ANNEX 9
NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
DISBURSEMENTS AGAINST STATEHENTS OF EXPENDITURE
néhoursem.entq au titre Ae rAclarationq Ae clnensec
1.        IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditure in
the case of project management staff salaries and allowances and other
operating expenditures included in the project. The working papers for the
project outline the specific salary and operating costs which the project
will finance against certified statements of expenditure. The total amount
of disbursements against statements of expenditures is estimated at US$0.6
million, equal to about 3% of the credit amount.
2.        The Government would manage and account for the statement of
expenditure procedure in the following ways:
(a) The Project Director would submit bi-annually to IDA a budget
for project expenditures. This budget would present expected
project expenditures for a six-month period, using the
expenditure categories of the cost tables attached to the
project working papers. The statements of expenditures would
refer to the items included in the bi-annual budget. The
Project Director would attach to the budget a statement
showing the expenditures incurred during the preceding six-
month period.
(b) Justifications for expenditures (vouchers, invoices, receipts)
would be presented by the Project Director to IDA supervision
missions.
(c)  The project management team in the M,DR will keep separate accounts
for the expenditures to be financed against certified statements
of expenditure.
(d) Independent auditors will audit the project accounts annually and
will issue a separate opinion on the accounting for statements
of expenditure.
3.        The MDR has considerable experience in keeping accounts on IDA-
financed projects and with statement of expenditure procedures. The
procedures followed in this project would be similar to those already in use
in the MDR.  In addition:  (a) the auditors and the coordinator of IDA-assisted
projects in the MDR would advise the Project Director on accounting procedures;
(b) the technical assistance specialist working with the project management
team will assist the Project Director with accounting matters; and (c) the
MDR will also employ a local accountant to work on the project.
4.        The Government gave a number of assurances during negotiations
concerning accounting and auditing, which are specified in para. 7.04 of the
Staff Appraisal Report.



- 47 -
ANNEX 10
NIGER - EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Education
LIST OF RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
Liste des documents et des donnees classes dans le dossier du projet
1.   Niger, Analyse et développement de l'éducation, Unesco, Paris, mai 1978.
2.   Niger, Formation des cadres du service de l'élevage, PNUD/FAO, Rome, 1979.
3.   Niger, Formation des cadres du service de l'élevage, PNUD/FAO, Rome, 1980.
4.   Projet cadre pour la réforme et l'extension de l'Institut pratique de
développement rural (IPDR) à Kolo, Version 3, PNUD/FAO, Niamey, novembre 1977.
5.   Projet de réforme et d'extension de l'IPDR, réunion de comité technique,
15-20 octobre 1978.
6.   Réforme de l'IPDR, PNUD/FAO, janvier 1979.
7.   Réforme de l'IPDR, PNUD/FAO, février 1979.
8.   Réforme et extension de l'IPDR, deuxième réunion du comité technique,
30-31 juillet, ler aôut 1979.
9.   Réforme et extension de l'Institut pratique de développement rural, (IPDR) de
Kolo, rapport intérimaire, PNUD/FAO, Rome 1979.
10.  Government Policies and Institutions Affecting Rainfed Agriculture, USAID,
Niamey, September 1979.
11.  Study and Analysis of Nigeres Rural Sector Human Resources Development Project,
(Back-up papers), USAID, Niamey 1979.
12.  Project Paper, Niger - Rural Sector Human Resources Development Project
(No. 683-0226), USAID, Niamey 1979.
13. Final Detailed Working Papers for Each Project Component, April 1981.



p



__________________________________________________________________________________________                                                                                  IBRD   15050
N I G E R                                                                               v              40_F
FIRST EDUCATION  PROJECTI                                                                                        .               :   i
2   P7RFAsEM/IR PROJET D'ED/ICA T/ON IV
2 talL [DE V ELC~PiV': -N TR l` 1 1 . ' r T TUr f                                                    o    ;      7:erA                  N    I  G    E  R      
*           5r'T:/.iW'iL:   r- T½.'grTcT4gP  V~ 'R                                t.              y                              
*ANIMAS FR2441 '14314 IFA I NI,
AOLL D1/ T(/RDPFI OR4rFiF4E
o     FL tL  5141 IL4N5 - CC51T RUC ED                                                      *.44LL
,1NTrVEl/rNsE' OSTRI/F                                                   .-             ..                     4l-                                           A .- PFRi   w   
FIE D S'T4iONS-M4fFIIER '                                                                                                                ,r`,,  <:to....       y
4 NTFL'aLFS  LnOM,IDF5                                                                                          L >     Æ  éN 1 G: R-E  A                   
SECOND MARADI R.4A  LSt/VLOPMENT  PROJEtCT                         *                                          .       FR4114                                    .
EEsC/FEr4A  PPC/ET D E OEE/CRECPPFEMFA/' RU CE2 DF4A, At/
PROIECT AREA / 'TNF C  PRO/El                                     1 
DOSSO AGR%ULr RAL DEV5L5 5     ,RF/JtCT .I C
18 ~~~~~~~ffroYF  DF i5FIFI/OPErfëASSA          A     GC/ F DOSO|  l ISu
1I   V S 5 4 0 4 4   PR O J F CT -  LE G A L   t AS l O tA L   00C 45 I U                                                                           - ljE
, :   PFJFT FIFVACl - ZCV'FPASkLF/-d                                                                s  
E   N"AMAilCOUNJG0L  RPl.r.AT[C^l PROJ ECï                                                               .       
f    PRO.ET DE4 OG4OE  ZONE E/4SMJRA    FO/ECC                                                                                                      T
FCRE5TRY PRCOJEUT|i                                                                                           v       -
P PRO/PT FOPRET/TPE
F- VE   RDADS  . 'R       4/ /T200.                       j                                                                      V ;
-A1F TEI RTAD5 .' roUTEF. EN 14/TI                                                                                 -     E/T-
T- - RATK5, R/T|n f                                                                                                                         \
A  FPORTS / .1EPOkO5RTI
,    -*~~~~ NTFT,A  ONT; RONDEARR    FRSONT7/TEE /N/ArN4 IF/RA//ES/,     
1R \                C       50       I00      50     /200                  ( 5                      T.
L OME1 /4 
M                   LOAti    L                                                                                       
l/4    )A24                                             ,J/A  ..                                            -   /
>              .--r'               "'    __             J         J ------------
l.~~~~~~~~~~4~/ / --j 1404
v.,Sf   1~~~~~~~~ .N9\&    X s  1                     N      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~  G  E  R     I     A
12 U   P    P    E   R                 \              8                                                                                                                                1
V    O    L  T  A                                                                                                                                                                  12>G?   x,_     ,              /          t     
/5 E'   N-                                            NSk40Ns MA§0NA
f              4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Md,o4'



