CREDIT NUMBER 1151 NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1151 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    , 1981, between REPUBLIC
OF NIGER (hereinafter ca    ed the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called    the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by letters addressed by the Association to the Minister
of Planning of the Borrower dated July 19, 1979 and December 11,
1980, respectively, the Association granted advances to the
Borrower of, in the aggregate, $700,000, to assist in the
financing of the preparation of the Project; and
(C) pursuant to the terms of said advance the amount thereof
is to be refunded to the Association out of the proceeds of the
Credit provided for in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ECE" means "Ecole des cadres de 'elevage", the
school included in Part D of the Project; and


﻿-2-
(b) "IPDR" means "Institut pratique pour le d6veloppement
rural".
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seventeen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR17,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
this Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
advance referred to in the preamble to this Agreement withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay any unpaid charges
thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of such
advance shall be automatically cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to lie financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1991, and ending
February 1, 2031, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and educational policies and practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. For purposes of carrying out Parts C, D and E
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ at its Ministry of Rural
Development a Project Director and an Assistant Project Accountant,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association:
(a) not later than December 31, 1982, an interim status report on
the execution of Part A of the Project, and exchange views with
the Association thereon; and (b) not later than July 31, 1984,
a final report on the execution of Part A of the Project, and
exchange views with the Association thereon.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than
September 30, 1982, furnish to the Association a summary report


﻿-4-
on the execution of Part B of the Project, and exchange views
with the Association thereon.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying
out Parts A.5, C.2 and D.3 of the Project, prepare and furnish
to the Association, not later than September 30, 1981, a list
of candidates, whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of their proposed training programs.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
-adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿-5-
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, in respect of Parts C and
D of the Project, furnish to the Association, not later than four
months after the end of each calendar year, any report evaluating
the performance of ECE and IPDR prepared during each such year,
and exchange views with the Association thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause its departments or
agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof:
(a) to maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices their operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project, including separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures;
and


﻿-6-
(b) to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditures and shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of such accounts for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement as
to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used
to make payments for goods received, or works or services per-
formed, and that such goods, works and services were eligible for
financing under this Agreement and were used in the carrying out
of the Project; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning such accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1981, employ qualified and experienced persons as
Assistant Director and Chief Accountant of IPDR.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall operate the educational
institutions included in the Project in accordance with appro-
priate administrative and educatinal policies and practices and
with due regard to economy.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the buildings, equipment and
furniture of such institutions to be adequately inspected and
maintained, cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof
to be made in accordance with sound administrative and technical
standards, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities
and services and other resources required for the purpose.
(c)  The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 in each
year, furnish to the Association the proposed budget allocation


﻿-7-
for the following year for purposes of paragraph (b) of this
Section, and exchange views with the Association thereon.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additLonal event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any of the Decrees referred
to in Section 6.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or shall cease to
be enforced, so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying
out by the Borrower of its covenants, agreements and obligations
set forth in this Agreement, or the operation of ECE and IPDR.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Decree of the Borrower which establishes ECE
is in full force and effect and in substance satisfactory to the
Association;
(b) that the Decree of the Borrower which reorganizes IPDR
is in full force and effect and in substance satisfactory to the
Association; and
(c) that the Project Director and Assistant Project
Accountant referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement have been
employed.
Section 6.02. The dat4      b    7; /q i, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Sec i     12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. The obligzations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re du Plan
B.P. 862
Niamey, Niger
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIPLAN                           5230 CND
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-9-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 11,200,000         85%
(2) Professional                   500,000         90%
fees
(3) Furniture                      900,000         90%
(4) Equipment                      900,000         90%
(5) Consultants'                   700,000         100%
services
(6) Fellowship                     400,000         100%
(7) Operating costs,               500,000         90%
including local
salaries
(8) Refunding of                   600,000         Amount due
advance for                                   at Effective
preparation                                   Date under
of the                                        Section 2.02
Project                                       (b) of this
Agreement
(9) Unallocated                  1,600,000
TOTAL        17,300,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated under Category (8)
above is insufficient, or excessive, adjustment shall be made
by reallocation to or from Category (9).
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is: (a) to improve the capability
of the Borrower to plan the development of education and training
and to prepare future education projects; (b) to establish pro-
fessional training and upgrading programs; and (c) to upgrade
the quality and increase the output of middle-level technicians
in agriculture and animal production.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Educational Planning and Project Preparation
1.   Preparation of an educational development plan.
2.   Development of strategies for educational development.
3.   Identification and preparation of education projects.
4.   Development of syllabi for the introduction of educa-
tional planning and school mapping in the training
programs for educational planning personnel.
5.   Training of nationals of the Borrower in educational
planning and school mapping techniques and provision of
fellowships therefor.
Part B:   Public Administration and Labor
1.   Review of the professional training needs of the
Borrower.
2.   Formulation and execution of upgrading programs result-
ing from such review.
3.   Identification and preparation of future professional
training and upgrading projects.
Part C:   Agricultural Technician Training
1.   Construction, furnishing and equipping for the final
phase of the IPDR at Kolo.


﻿- 13 -
2.   Provision of fellowships for upgrading IPDR's teaching
staff.
3.   On-the-job training and training courses in basic
sciences and mathematics for IPDR's teaching staff.
4.   Re-orientation and upgrading of IPDR's curriculum.
Part D:   Training of Animal Production Technicians
1.   Construction, furnishing and equipping of a school
at Kolo for training technicians and extension workers
in animal production.
2.   Development of curricula for the school included in
Part D.1 above.
3.   Provision of fellowships for such school.
4.   On-the-job training for ECE's staff.
Part E:   Acquisition and utilization by the Ministry of Rural
Development of the Borrower of equipment and furniture
for purposes of carrying out Parts C and D of the
Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   Equipment and furniture items shall be grouped so as to
permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with sound
technical and procurement practices.     Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such groups shall be for not less than $50,000
equivalent.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Niger
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.    After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Niger if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Niger equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.    In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if,
as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is
the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the. lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 16 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be pro-
cured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
. 1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for the purchase of equipment and furniture
items which cannot be grouped in packages costing at least $50,000
equivalent may be procured on the basis of local competitive


﻿- 17 -
procurement piocedures in effect on the date of this Agreement
acceptable to the Association. In addition, contracts for furni-
ture or equipment costing less than $10,000 equivalent for which
there is a small number of potential suppliers may be procured
through negotiated purchase after solicitation of quotations from
at least three suppliers.
2.   The total cost of the goods procured in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part shall not exceed
$200,000 equivalent.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to


﻿- 18 -
the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1981.
FOR SECRETARY


