                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26232

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-22670)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 56.1 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                  UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                                FOR THE

                              RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT




                                              June 30, 2003




Transport
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )

                           Currency Unit = Tanzanian Shilling
                                 Tsh 1.0 = US$ 0.005 (as of March 1991)
                                 US$ 1.0 = Tsh.194

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB         =          African Development Bank
ADG         =          Assistant Director General
CAS         =          Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA        =          Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA      =          Danish International Development Agency
DCA         =          Development Credit Agreement
DFID        =          Department of International Development, UK
DG          =          Director General
EARC        =          East African Railways Corporation
EP          =          Emergency Rehabilitation Program for TRC
ERP         =          Economic Recovery Program
ERR         =          Economic Rate of Return
EU          =          European Union
GOT         =          Government of Tanzania
ICEP        =          Interim Capacity Enhancement Program
KfW         =          Kreditenanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MCT         =          Ministry of Communications and Transport
MOU         =          Memorandum of Understanding
MTR         =          Mid Term Review
OIP         =          Operations Improvement Plan
PSRC        =          Presidential Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
QAG         =          Quality Assurance Group
TA          =          Technical Assistance
TRC         =          Tanzania Railways Corporation



                          Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo
               Country Manager/Director:       Benno J. Ndulu/Judy M. O'Connor
                Sector Manager/Director:       Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard/Praful C. Patel
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Simon Thomas

                            UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                        RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P002757                                                      Project Name: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURI
Team Leader: Simon Thomas                                                TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURI                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-22670
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                           Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Railways (88%); Roads & highways (12%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/26/1986                                        Effective: 04/30/1992              04/30/1992
   Appraisal:    06/30/1990                                            MTR: 12/31/1993                02/03/1995
    Approval:    06/13/1991                                         Closing: 12/31/1999               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA/TANZANIA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               Robert Hindle
Sector Manager:                 Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard                    Isaac Sam
Team Leader at ICR:             Simon Thomas                                   Yusupha Crookes
ICR Primary Author:             Yoshimichi Kawasumi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the Project (RRP) were to (i) strengthen the organization of the Tanzania
Railways Corporation (TRC), eliminate regulatory bottlenecks to its effective operation and set it on the
path to commercially viable entity; and (ii) rehabilitate infrastructure assets, replace obsolete and
uneconomic operational assets and provide limited new investments consistent with the prospects for
traffic growth. The attainment of these objectives was expected to increase TRC's effective haul
capacity consistent with the demands of the growing economy, improve its capacity to handle transit
traffic to the benefit of both Tanzania and its landlocked neighbors, and improve its financial
performance. The objectives were well justified, given the conditions at project appraisal and the widely
acknowledged railway restructuring best practices.

Railways Performance: The highest tonnage carried over the network was 1.7 million tons, in the early
1970s, when the railway was part of the East African Railways Corporation (EARC). Effective capacity
began to decline in the mid-1970s and reached 0.8 - 0.9 million tons by the 1980s, despite considerable
additions to the asset base after the establishment of TRC in 1978. The decline in capacity resulted
from: (i) the disruption during the collapse of EARC; (ii) poor operational management; (iii) low
availability of locomotives and wagons; (iv) unreliable operational and infrastructure assets; and (v) lack
of commercial and managerial autonomy. The under-utilization of assets and restrictions on tariff
increases led to a deteriorating financial performance.

Best Practices: The RRP was expected to address this situation by: (i) restructuring TRC's organization
and operating practices and systems; (ii) changing the relationship with the Government of Tanzania
(GOT), and introducing management autonomy and commercial orientation through a performance
contract; and (iii) providing the investment required to enable TRC to meet the demand for freight
transport. This was fully in line with the Bank's policy focusing on the commercialization of the railways
operation (refer to -" Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program - SSATP - Working Paper No.7:
Railway Restructuring Seminar for Anglophone and Lusophone countries in Sub-Saharan Africa,
Bulawayo, Zimbabwe, June 1992").

(Hereafter, the original objectives will be referred to as "Objective A" to distinguish from the revised
objectives which will be referred to as "Objective B".)

3.2 Revised Objective:
Objective B: The Objective A was maintained, but the implementing strategy was fundamentally
changed midway through RRP. Until the mid-1990s, GOT considered TRC as a strategic parastatal and
the project was designed within this framework, using the best practice of a performance contract. By
1996/97, it had become clear that the project was failing to attain its development objectives. The TRC
experience was similar to the failure of other rail projects which had also attempted to transform public
sector railways while remaining within the parastatal framework, for example in Kenya. Before a final
decision could be taken on continued support for the project, GOT announced to the donors in October
1997 that it had decided to concession TRC as the only feasible means of meeting the commercial and
operational objectives. Hence the project was restructured with a revised objective of concessioning the
TRC (Objective B).

Paradigm Shift: The Government's decision to concession TRC mirrored the clear paradigm shift
towards railway restructuring, among donors, based on the very limited positive experiences of railway
restructuring within the parastatal framework, and the increasing numbers of successful concessioning
practices in Latin America as well as in African countries (refer to: "Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy
Program -SSATP- Working Paper No.32: Seminar on Railway Concessioning in Sub-Saharan Africa,
Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire, October 1997"). RRP was restructured in February 1999 to include concessioning
assistance as a specific disbursement category in the restructured Credit, and all the donors shifted
support to maintaining operations until the concession, originally anticipated by the end of 2000.




                                                      - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
In line with the Objective A, RRP consisted of the following two major components:

3.3.1     Organizational Development and Operational Support Component:
To ensure that TRC would achieve the improvements and efficiency envisaged, a major program of
management strengthening was planned and implemented. The program provided extensive inputs of
long term Technical Assistance (TA) to:
(i)   improve TRC's operations through the implementation of efficient methods of planning and control;
(ii) help implement the physical components of the Project;
(iii) upgrade TRC's financial management and accounting practices;
(iv) improve TRC's management and operations information systems; and
(v) improve employee incentives through a revised salary and wage structure and a productivity-based
      incentive scheme.

3.3.2     Physical Investments:
Based on the assessment of major infrastructure and operating constraints, the following components
were included mainly responding to the second development objective:
(i)   relaying of about 200 km track, rehabilitation of 1000km track, re-ballasting and thermit welding of
      rails;
(ii) rehabilitation and strengthening of 22 bridges;
(iii) establishment of one stone quarry for ballast;
(iv) procurement of equipment for track maintenance;
(v) construction of a central plant maintenance and permanent way workshop;
(vi) procurement of accident relief equipment;
(vii) procurement of about 40 trolleys and service vehicles;
(viii) renewal of the Tanga and Link line overhead communications wires and provision of equipment and
      spare parts for the TRC telecommunications system;
(ix) rehabilitation of about 1,750 wagons;
(x) rehabilitation of 100 coaches and procurement of 27 new passenger coaches.
(xi) rehabilitation of 31 locomotives; and
(xii) upgrading of the mechanical engineering workshops.

The total cost of RRP was estimated at US$275.2 million:

          TRC              $109.6 (million)                IDA             $ 76.0 (million)
          ADB              $ 31.2                          EU              $ 18.0
          CIDA             $ 10.3                          KfW             $ 18.3
          DFID             $  8.5                          WFP             $    3.3

3.4 Revised Components:
The IDA Credit was revised twice: (i) Emergency flood repairs were included after the El Nino
(DCA Amendment dated February 23, 1998); and (ii) in line with the Objective B, the
concessioning assistance was included when the project was restructured and SDR8.1 million
cancelled (DCA Amendment dated June 13, 2000). The other donors (CIDA, DFID, KfW) also
modified their assistance with additional funding for the interim Capacity Enhancement Program
(ICEP) which was formulated after the concessioning decision and was designed to increase
locomotive availability through the provision of spare parts and line-management at the Morogoro
Diesel Workshop. During the implementation of RRP, the Government of Belgium also provided
support for tank-wagons, weightbridges, Isaka terminal, handling equipment, technical assistance
and turnouts.




                                                     - 3 -

Table 3.1 Comparison of Components
                                                                                                (US$ million)

 CATEGORY                    COMPONENTS                 ORIGINAL      REVISED-1      REVISED-2      FINAL
                                                          (SAR)        (EL NINO)     (RESTR.)      ACCOUNT

                    Track renewal, maintenance             47.3           52.1          43.5          44.5
  PHYSICAL          depot., signal & telecom., office
                    equipment.
                    Management support, workshop           17.6           12.2           7.5         8.5
 TA                 support, supervision, assets
                    evaluation, training, studies.
 PPF                PPF                                    1.5            0.7            1.1          1.0
 EMERGENCY          Civil works, goods & equipment,          -            6.5            7.7          7.8
                    supervision.
 CONCESSION         Services.                                -             -             4.0          2.8
 UNALLOCATED          -                                    9.6            4.4            1.3         0.0
  TOTAL                                                    76.0           76.0          65.0         64.6
                                                        (SDR56.1)      (SDR56.1)     (SDR48.0)     (SDR46.4)
 CANCELLED                                                   -             -          SDR 8.1       SDR 9.7



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Recognizing the pervasive problems of TRC, RRP was designed as a comprehensive approach to the
key constraints: the organizational structure, operating and management systems and procedures,
GOT-TRC relationship, and physical and human resources. The quality at entry is rated as
"satisfactory", given the conditions of the railway at project appraisal and the widely acknowledged
railway restructuring best practices (the accepted paradigm for parastatal reform). The "Quality at Entry"
was not assessed by QAG.

Emphasizing commercial and managerial autonomy: RRP supported greater autonomy for TRC in
decision making, particularly with regard to tariff setting, rationalization of internal authority and
communication structures, and rationalization of staff strength. During the appraisal stage, an Operation
Improvement Plan (OIP) was agreed with the GOT. The Ministerial Directive No.1 and the
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) were signed in May 1991. The GOT - TRC relationship was thus
given a revised status and a formal system for the monitoring of operational performance was
established. This was fully in line with the Bank's policy focusing on the commercialization of the
railways operation.

Improving systems and procedures: RRP supported the upgrading of key management systems,
particularly those related to operations, costing, train operations information, and monitoring of
operational performance.

Improving productivity of human resource: Emphasis was given to improving the capability and
productivity of human resources through staff rationalization/reduction, innovative training methods, and
exposure of the management to advanced railway systems.

Improving availability and reliability of physical assets: RRP focused on ensuring that locomotives,
rolling stock, and infrastructure would not be constraints. Aged, obsolete and unproductive assets were
to be scrapped, line locomotives were to be overhauled and refurbished, and railway track was to be
renewed.

Incorporation of lessons and past experience: RRP was designed after detailed consultations with
stakeholders and in cooperation with all the interested donor agencies. The Project design included the
concept of joint supervision missions and joint Aide Memoires. The experience of the Emergency



                                                      - 4 -

Rehabilitation Program (EP), launched in 1987, provided valuable lessons. It had become apparent that
the GOT needed to (i) allow TRC management and commercial autonomy; (ii) strengthen TRC's capacity
to manage its resources efficiently, and (iii) set explicit financial and operational targets and hold TRC
accountable. These lessons were incorporated into RRP.

CAS: RRP was in line with the CAS goals which concentrated on supporting the medium term economic
development of Tanzania through providing the basis for sustainable growth. The strategy was to assist
Tanzania to: (i) develop and implement policy and institutional reforms to underpin the medium-term
objectives, (ii) rehabilitate key infrastructure and services, and (iii) eliminate the critical longer-term
constraints to development in the social and environmental sectors.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
RRP was restructured midway through the Project implementation, reflecting: (i) the recognition by the
Government of the limitation of the operational improvement within the parastatal framework, and (ii) the
paradigm shift among donors in railway restructuring policy. The overall outcome of the RRP was,
therefore, rated primarily based on the revised development objectives, Objective B.

4.1.1     Objective A:
The main objectives of the project were partly achieved and its achievement is rated as "marginally
satisfactory". The physical investment was highly successful despite the damages and disruptions
caused by El Nino in 1997. However, in terms of financial and freight transport performance, the Project
failed to accomplish the objective to assist TRC's transition to becoming a commercially viable entity.
The corporate performance improvement attained in the initial stage of the Project was not sustained.
The Project strengthened the management and operational basis throughout the Project, but it was
eventually realized that there were problems and constraints inherent in the railways operating within the
public sector framework and its relationship with the Government of Tanzania (GOT) that made it very
difficult for the railways to exploit its full potential.

It was only after the decision was made by GOT to privatize TRC, and the donors focus shifted from the
advisory TA to direct line management that the potential operational capacity was effectively
orchestrated and TRC's record high performance was made. The freight traffic of 1.60 million-tons in
2002 is still below the Mid Term Review (MTR) target of 1.83 million-tons by 2000. However, overall
performance trend in the past 5 years showed a steady improvement in freight traffic.

4.1.2     Objective B:
The concessioning of TRC, despite all well intended efforts and good progress in transaction preparation,
was not achieved. The Presidential Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC) was the
implementing agency for the concessioning component. Though the concessioning process took much
longer than expected, a new Railways Act, providing the legal basis for the new railway structure, was
enacted, and the SUMATRA Act, establishing an economic and safety regulator for surface transport,
was also enacted.

The concession bidding documents were issued in September, 2002. Unfortunately, the bidding process
was completed, but there were no bids. The GOT is still committed to concessioning and has decided to
restart the transaction process. GOT is currently seeking new transaction advisors to assist with the
preparation of revised bidding documents. Had the concession been awarded, the achievement of the
Objective B would have been rated as "highly satisfactory". As the matters stand, a "moderately
unsatisfactory" rating is considered appropriate.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1     Under Objective A:
Outputs under Objective A were rated as "satisfactory". The organizational support has improved



                                                         - 5 -

various management and operational elements of TRC, and the physical investment was more than fully
accomplished, despite damages caused by El Nino in end-1997.

4.2.1.1 Organizational Development and Operational Support:
Intensive input of technical assistance (TA) experts, combined with various studies and trainings, was the
core of the Organizational Development and Operational Support. At the peak, in December 1994, the
number of long-term TA experts totalled 37. The details of accomplishment of the individual
components are as follows:

Management Development Program - Supervisory Staff Development and Training: Initial 830
person-months reduced to 516 person-months. Coordination achieved through Management
Committees in departments and an Inter-Department Joint Meeting chaired by the Director General. A
360 degree performance evaluation system was introduced, under which the TA were evaluated by their
counterparts and vice-versa (CIDA, EEC, KfW, DFID, IDA).

Implementation support for physical components: Initial 346 person-months reduced to 264
person-months. Support included (i) locomotive maintenance; (ii) wagon and coach rehabilitation; (iii)
bridge construction; and (iv) track rehabilitation (ADB, CIDA, DANIDA, DFID, EU, KfW, IDA).

Financial management & accounting systems: A number of studies were undertaken on the financial and
accounting systems, as well as an asset revaluation study (DFID). A computerized financial accounting
system was introduced (IDA). TRC routinely produces financial reports, detailed accounting data, etc., in
a timely and professional manner.

Commercial Department: In 1992, a Commercial Department was established and the commercial
management study was completed in 1994 (DFID) and a commercial strategy formulated. TRC
introduced Railtracker (wagon/freighter tracking system) (EU) and it has become the primary tool for
improving wagon allocation management and utilization.

IT Support: An IT strategy study was completed in 1994 (DFID). An integrated financial and materials
management system was installed, together with a computer network covering all the major TRC
centers. The system was fully operational by 2001, and all but the materials management system have
superseded the previous systems (IDA).

TRC Incentive scheme: An incentive study was completed in 1994 (IDA), and an incentive system was
introduced. By 1996, the cost of the incentives had reached US$4 million, almost 40% of the basic
salary cost. While work unit targets were reached, there was no improvement in corporate performance.
The scheme was suspended and then replaced by a system which required both the unit and corporate
performance to be achieved. No incentive payments have been made under the new scheme, since the
overall corporate target was never met, but a flat-rate bonus of Tsh. 20,000 was paid to all staff in 2001.

4.2.1.2 Physical Investment Components:
The physical investments which constituted some 83% of the total project costs, were highly successfully
completed by the end of December 2001. The details of individual components are as follows:

Relaying of 200 km track, rehabilitation of 1,000 km track, and thermit welding of 560 km rail: all were
implemented by September 2000 (IDA).

Ballast: (i) The Tura quarry contract was successfully completed by 1997 (EU); (ii) Pangani quarry was
dropped, following a re-assessment, and 100,000 cu.m of ballast was procured by tender (IDA).

Reconstruction of 22 bridges: Initial 22 bridges increased to 52 bridges as part of El Nino emergency
works and were completed by December 2001 (KfW).

Emergency Flood Works for Central and Link Line: The El Nino floods in December 1997, washed away
the Central line at 16 places (totaling 5 km) over a 31 km section between Kidete and Kilosa. Major
damage to culverts also closed the Link Line. With remarkable efforts from the TRC engineers and force
account works, the Central Line was re-opened in 10 months in August 1998, and the permanent
structures were completed in December 2001 (IDA). Operation of the Link Line was restored in January
1999, and major culvert repairs, which required extensive tunneling, were completed by December 2001



                                                     - 6 -

(IDA).

Construction of a central plant maintenance & permanent way workshop: At the MTR it was agreed that
equipment and plant would be maintained by the private sector.

Track maintenance machines and tools, motor trolleys, and accident relief equipment: Delivered by 1997
(EU).

Communication systems: It was decided that there was insufficient traffic to justify the renewal of the
overhead communication system on the Tanga and Link lines. A high capacity fiber-optic cable was
installed between Dar es Salaam and Dodoma, completed in early-2003 (KfW). Four PABXs were
purchased for the major stations (IDA).

Rehabilitation of wagons: Some 2,400 wagons were overhauled by 1996 (DANIDA, ADB, DFID) and 67
new tank wagons were procured (EU).

Rehabilitation of locomotives: 15 mainline locomotives and 11 shunting locomotives were overhauled by
2000 (CIDA, DFID, KfW). However, most of the mainline fleet is 25+ years and reliability remains a
major problem. In 1998, 10 Class 73 locomotives were leased from India, and the Trans-Africa Rail
Corporation was given traffic rights to move cement from Tanga and Ugandan transit traffic to/from
Kidatu.

Equipment for track maintenance and upgrading of the workshops: Delivered by 1994 (EU, IDA).

Rehabilitation and purchase of coaches: Rehabilitation was more costly than originally estimated and
only 50 coaches were rehabilitated. 27 new coaches were delivered by 1997 (ADB).

4.2.2    Under Objective B:
Outputs under Objective B was rated as "satisfactory". The concessioning preparation and process
was well advanced, and the TRC's operational performance regained record highs. However, the
concessioning process was not completed as a result of insufficient private sector interest.

4.2.2.1 Support for Concessioning
The IDA Credit financed the cost of the concession transaction advisor and a number of supporting
studies: asset valuation, pension liabilities, environmental and social liabilities, etc.. In addition, a public
awareness campaign of the need for railway concessioning was also conducted.

4.2.2.1 Interim Capacity Enhancement Program (ICEP)
This program was developed by the donors (CIDA, DFID, KfW) to support line management, locomotive
maintenance and spare parts supply until the concession. The program provided a management team
(10 experts), with full responsibility for locomotive maintenance and spare parts for all classes of
locomotives (excluding Class 87). Record locomotive availability was achieved. The two year program
was subsequently extended, with a reduced management team to the end of 2002 (DFID, KfW, IDA).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NPV (12%): US$29.0 million; and ERR: 14.4% (for details, refer to Annex 3, Section A 3.1 Economic
Rate of Return).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial NPV (12%): -US$49.5 (negative); and FRR: 4.1% (for details, refer to Annex 3, Section A 3.2
Financial Rate of Return).

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of RRP is rated "substantial" in the following two major aspects:

Operational Performance of TRC: RRP resulted in greater management autonomy, a more
commercial approach and a more customer oriented focus. The operational statistics show a substantial
initial improvement, especially in freight transport, as illustrated in the Fig. 4.1- TRC Freight Traffic & TA



                                                      - 7 -

Experts Input. After the peak in 1995, however, the freight transport declined implying: (i) the structural
weaknesses of the parastatal framework to sustain the development, and (ii) the limited effectiveness of
advisory TA experts. RRP was failing to achieve its objective of developing a commercial and
financially sustainable railway. However, the revised TA focus on line management, since 1998,
supported TRC's own core of competent and dedicated managers which, along with the intensive support
to locomotive maintenance and spare parts supply, improved the operating performance substantially.
Observed in wider view, the overall performance tendency showed a constant improvement in freight
traffic despite the decreased level of physical investments and TA inputs (ref. dotted lines).


                               Figure 4.1 - TRC Freight Traffic, TA Experts & Investment


                     1800                                                                100


                     1600                                                                90


                                                                                         80
                     1400

                                                                                         70  mil.)
                     1200                                                                         ($

    ton)                                                                                 60
                     1000                                                                                                   Investment ($ mil.)

        (1,000                                                                           50                                 Freight (1,000 tons)
                      800                                                                           Investment/             TA Experts
                                                                                         40                    No.
              Freight
                      600
                                                                                         30

                      400                                                                                         Experts
                                                                                         20

                      200                                                                10


                       0                                                                 0
                          1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 El Nino 1999 2000 2001 2002

                                                     Year




Institutional Transformation: Though RRP failed to achieve its original objective of developing a
commercial and financially sustainable public sector railway, it assisted in facilitating the fundamental
paradigm shift to private sector management through a concession. Throughout the concessioning
process, TRC management proved its customer oriented behavioral change, fully cooperated with the
concessioning process, and maintained its focus on improving performance despite the uncertainties.
This is altogether a fundamental institutional transformation and its institutional development impact is
substantial. If the TRC is successfully concessioned, it will have a profound impact on the Tanzanian
transport sector, and the institutional development impact will be very "high".


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1                   Under Objective A:
Political Development: TRC serves not only Tanzania but also the surrounding landlocked countries.
Transit cargo is significant and generally the most profitable traffic. Turmoil in the Democratic Republic
of Congo, Burundi and Rwanda made both transit and relief cargo more erratic.




                                                                  - 8 -

El Nino: The floods in end-1997 cut both the Central and Link lines. A road-rail transshipment operation
was quickly organized at Dodoma and the rehabilitation works were completed with remarkable speed,
but the interruption to freight services had a very adverse operational and financial impact on TRC.

5.1.2    Under Objective B:
Inadequate Private Sector Interest in Concessions: GOT decided to concession TRC, but this also
required private sector demand for the concession. Concessioning was delayed because only one of the
pre-qualified bidder was prepared to submit a bid, and that bid would not have been compliant, and
eventually was not submitted. GOT is now considering what changes to the terms and conditions are
required to increase private sector interest.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1    Under Objective A:
Difficulty within parastatal framework: While TRC was progressively provided with commercial and
managerial autonomy through Ministerial Directive and MOU/Performance Contract, TRC was failing to
achieve its objective of developing a commercial and financially sustainable railway. The unresolved
issues such as the lack of GOT's commitment to fully implement MOU, surplus staff, resettlement policy,
regulatory constraints, and especially the lack of market oriented management culture and skill
responsive to the ever progressive market environment, were the fundamental impediments.

GOT commitment to cost recovery business principle: Initially, TRC management failed to claim
compensation for non-commercial services, but when it was claimed, GOT failed in honoring
compensation for TRC's social services, and little compensation was paid. In 2002, GOT agreed to
offset compensation claims against debt service arrears. GOT also failed to establish a level playing
field between the road transport and the railways. The investment in rail infrastructure should have been
treated in a similar fashions to road investment, especially as TRC was required to pay the fuel levy to
fund road maintenance. In retrospect, it could be argued that the on-lending arrangements for
infrastructure investment were flawed. The lack of GOT's commitment partly obstructed the financial
performance and cultural change of TRC.

5.2.2    Under Objective B:
Long decision making processes with parastatal constraints: Concessioning was slow partly
because of the lengthy decision making processes. The Cabinet decision on the preferred concessioning
option took over 12 months.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1    Under Objective A:
The SAR identified a number of potential risks, mainly related to management and operations. RRP
tried to strengthen these areas with TA, studies, and investments.

Management commitment to restructuring: Initially, there was limited commitment to restructuring,
e.g., TRC failed to raise compensation claims for social services. More commitment, in the early years,
might have led to greater institutional development and improved finances. Following changes in top
management, attitudes were transformed, and TRC began to make the necessary difficult decisions.
TRC agreed to contract out locomotive maintenance, and later accepted contracted management. To
reverse the declining operational performance, TRC took the initiative to bring back an external railway
manager as an Assistant Director-General (ADG) to coordinate operations. There has been a marked
improvement in TRC performance, since the assignment of ADG and the ICEP, however it was doubtful
whether management could ever overcome the basic flaws in the parastatal institutional framework.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total Project Cost: The SAR estimate was US$275.2 million, with US$165.4 million funded by donors
and US$109.8 million by TRC. Actual donor funding was US$193.3 million, a 17% increase. TRC's
contribution was US$29 million.




                                                     - 9 -

IDA Credit: The IDA disbursed US$64.6 million, US$11 million (-15%) less than SAR estimate of
US$76.0 million. Disbursements included US$7.9 million for the El Nino works and US$2.0 million for
concession assistance. SDR 8.1 million was cancelled at the time of restructuring of the Project.
Savings came from streamlining technical assistance and cost saving in civil works.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Under the current situation, neither GOT budget allocation nor donor support is yet secured to enhance
the TRC's operation beyond 2004. The sustainability of the Project is, thus, rated as "moderately
unlikely" despite the current record high performance of TRC.

Since the RRP was restructured, the direction of the project shifted to the concessioning of the railway,
and donor support focussed mainly on the line management TA along with the intensive support to
locomotive maintenance and spare parts supply, TRC's performance improved substantially and freight
traffic set records in both 2001 and 2002. To these underlying improvements, the concessionaire was
expected to bring private sector management, incentives/sanctions and investments which would have
ensured the sustainability of the improved railway operation. However, the concession process will take
longer than expected due to the restarting of transaction process.

Currently there are sufficient spare parts for locomotive maintenance until end-2003, and TRC is also
seeking short-term partnerships with its major customers for wagon rehabilitation. However, no
additional donor support has yet been agreed, and GOT's budget allocation is yet to be secured to
enhance the TRC's operation beyond 2004. Thus, no guarantee of sustainability exists after 2004.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
While the concessioning process was advanced and the bidding process was completed, there were no
bids. The GOT is still committed to concessioning and has decided to restart the transaction process
again. GOT is currently seeking new transaction advisers to assist with the preparation of revised
bidding documentation. TRC management will maintain operations until the concessionaire takes over,
but with minimal donor assistance beyond some very limited transitional management support in the
workshops and operations. However, no substantial transitional arrangement has yet been concluded
with donors.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall performance was " satisfactory". The project was consistent with Government's overall policies
to rehabilitate the seriously deteriorated transport sector to establish the basis for sustained economic
growth. The Bank fielded several missions and coordinated well with other donors, resulting in
committed donor funding, totaling US$165 million, at the time of project appraisal. The team
incorporated lessons from past experience and "best practices" for railway reform and technical
assistance into the design of the project. The appraisal team had a comprehensive range of skills and
were joined by representatives of other major donors.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was generally "satisfactory" and, at times, "highly satisfactory". The Bank met its formal
supervision requirements, providing timely responses and action letters to requests, meeting internal
reporting deadlines, timely audit reviews, etc. RRP was ambitious and institutional capacity building
was a major determinant of success; supervision was focused on the TA management and coordination
and the 360 degree TA management system, designed during supervision, was designated "best
practice".

The Bank and other donors could have adopted a stronger approach with respect to implementation of
the MOU (though such arrangements have consistently failed in developing countries). However, when it



                                                     - 10 -

became clear that RRP was failing, the main donors maintained a common approach throughout the
Joint Supervision Missions led by the Bank to support the Government's decision to concession TRC,
which was highly evaluated.

The Bank was flexible in its approach, responding to the changing policy environment as well as
emergencies. The Bank revised in the early stage (1992-93) the scale of the TA and the physical
investment reflecting the revised operational forecast & targets. Following El Nino, the Bank assisted
TRC to hire construction equipment, select consultants and procure gabions within weeks rather than
months, maintaining Bank procurement principles but agreeing emergency procedures.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was "satisfactory". The Bank responded quickly for the concessioning
of TRC when the parastatal frameworks showed its limit. Also, the rapid and flexible response to the El
Nino crisis substantially improved the overall credibility of the World Bank with GOT, and the Bank was
specifically recognized by the President of Tanzania in his speech at the re-opening of the Central Line.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance was " satisfactory". There was close cooperation with the Bank in
establishing the revised GOT-TRC relationship through the Ministerial Directive No.1 and the
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance is assessed as "marginally satisfactory". GOT failed to implement
the financial provisions of either the MOU or the subsequent Performance Contract (which included
provision for equal treatment of the road and rail sectors). This contributed significantly to TRC's
financial problems and its inability to get on the path to financial sustainability.

However, faced with the sharp decline in TRC's performance after 1995, GOT took the right decision to
privatize management and operations through a concession. The process of concessioning has been
protracted, but there is no doubt that concessioning remains GOT policy, i.e. the substantial institutional
transformation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
TRC: TRC's performance in implementing a complicated project with many donors and components was
"satisfactory": procurement was efficient; reporting was regular and, for each supervision mission, a
comprehensive report was prepared, detailing both TRC and project performance; financial management
was excellent and the Project was selected as the pilot project for LACI in the Africa Region; and general
cooperation with the Bank was extremely close.

Unlike the experience in some other railways, TRC management fully cooperated with the concessioning
process. The present management proved its customer oriented behavioral change. It also substantially
improved operational performance despite the uncertainties, but this is not sustainable without a
continuing inflow of resources to update both the infrastructure and operating assets.

PSRC: The performance of PSRC was "marginally satisfactory". The agency is responsible for the
privatization/concessioning of a very large number of enterprises. This resulted, at times, in significant
delays in procurement and a number of important activities were not implemented. Given the delays in
concessioning, however, these activities were not on the critical path. The delays resulted from the
combination of (a) initial poor performance by the transaction adviser; (b) the complex decision making
process within GOT; and (c) exogenous political problems which delayed Cabinet approvals.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance was "satisfactory" and the decisions made are likely to result in a
sustainable railway sector in Tanzania.



                                                    - 11 -

8. Lessons Learned

Commercialization/Privatization of parastatal enterprises: RRP confirms the experience elsewhere.
In fact, RRP succeeded much better than many similar projects and freight traffic over the network has
risen by over 75% and TRC has now a much more commercial approach. However, unless the basic
incentives/sanctions structures are changed, TA and training will have little sustained impact as the
institutional culture is not substantially modified.

Effective Capacity Building: Substantial emphasis was given to capacity building and some success
was achieved, but: (i) The institutional capacity building will not necessarily be reflected in corporate
performance without strong management leadership to orchestrate the whole entity; (ii) The corporate
culture will not be easily or quickly changed within a continuing institutional framework. A new
framework to allow fully private management practice was required, as demonstrated by the success of
the Dar es Salaam Container Terminal since its leasing to the private sector.

TRC Incentive scheme: While work unit targets were reached, with the incentive payment reaching
US$4 million, almost 40% of the basic salary cost, no improvement in corporate performance was
observed. The incentive system needs to be carefully designed to be linked with corporate performance.

Operation Line Management: Since the commencement of ICEP and the assignment of external
manager as Acting Director General, de facto Chief Operation Officer (COO), a rapid and remarkable
recovery of the operational performance was recorded. The rapid improvement during ICEP is a proof
how the impact of experienced and motivated management is important to orchestrate the potential
capacity of an organization and deploy it into the corporate operational performance.

Concession bid design: There was only one potential bidder pre-qualified for the TRC concession.
This limited private sector interest may be partly the result of the conservative criteria which required an
experienced railway operator to have a substantial equity participation. Risk aversion is understandable,
given the importance of the railway, but more interest may be generated by more flexible criteria which
would allow other interests to bid for the concession, on the basis of a long-term management contract
with an approved rail operator.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

TRC Comments as Implementing Agency:

PROJECT REVIEW FROM IMPLEMENTING AGENT'S PERSPECTIVE

A.       Objectives
         The objectives of the Project were:
1.       To strengthen the organization of TRC, eliminate regulatory bottlenecks to its effective operations
         and make it a commercially viable entity; and

2.       Provide for the rehabilitation of TRC's infrastructure assets, replacement of obsolete and
         uneconomic operational assets and limited new investments consistent with the prospects for
         growth in domestic traffic.

B.       Project Design
         In our view the project design was comprehensive in that it covered the physical investment,
         organizational development and operational support of a railway system. The results expected
         were to increase capacity with the growing demands and improve financial performance.

C.       Works and Goods



                                                     - 12 -

         Items purchased under works and goods were worthy investments. Both economic and financial
         returns should accrue for years to come.

         Training
         Management exposure to leading international management schools was a morale booster and
         resulted in good decision-making. Both training outside and in house were very successful as
         the training were result field oriented

 D.      Consultancy
         Short term Technical assistance showed better results as those were under studying the expert
         manage to take over without any problems.

         The long-term Technical Assistance for general Management and Technical Management raised
         high expectations, but produced an average results. The amount spent would have had a better
         result if used for staff training.

 E.      Key Performance Parameters during the Loan Period

 TRC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2000

                                    2000
                                      TARGET        ACTUAL
Freight Traffic (Mn.T)                      1.832          1.165
Rail Operating Margin                        22%            10%
Rate of Return on assets                      4%           0.9%
Staff Productivity (000
U.T.s/employee)                               339            170
Loco Availability (based on
serviceable fleet )%                           75             76
No. of 88 cl. Eq. For major
wreck repairs (non-serv.)                       2              2
Main line loco utilization
(km/day/loco in use)                          470            317
Loco Reliability (88 class)
(000km/failure)                                30             14
Wagon Availability %                           90             77
Wagon turnround (days)                        10.5            13
Coach Availability %                          92              93

 Although TRC failed to meet the operations targets initially established, there are major improvements
 that have taken place during the period.

                                    Progress Indicators

         Indicator                           1991          2001

         TRC Freight traffic (million tons) 0.921         1.351
         Wagon turnaround (days)            19            12
         Staff                              13790         8892
         Rail Revenue (US$ million)         40            64
         Debt Collection (days)             172           39

 In other areas, TRC have freedom to set tariffs without Government interference; and it is now a
 restructured railway concentrating on its core business of freight and passenger on rail only.



                                                     - 13 -

F.      Donors
        The multiple investments of other donors in the project were very successful under the eying of
        the World Bank. Protocols and procurement procedures in future should be stream lined to
        shorten the procurement period.

G.      Joint Supervision Mission
        Joint support from the Donors mission was excellent. Relationship with Staff on Mission was very
        good as there was continuing on both the Donors and TRC staff during the course of the period.

H.      Overall General Assessment of Project
        On a scale of 1-10 the, rating for the project would be 7, a higher score would have been
        achieved had there been more support from the Government of United Republic of Tanzania on
        level playing field and compensation for noncommercial services.              The 1997 El-Nino also
        affected the economy and TRC in general. As a result, financial self-sustenance was not
        achieved.

        The project met some of its objectives and in our view was a success.

(b) Cofinanciers:

DFID's Comments as Major Cofinancier:
A.      The success of the technical assistance varied widely from the very good to the very poor. The
        original project demonstrated the problems of maximizing the performance of technical
        assistance when they are in an advisory role and the difficulties of achieving institutional
        development in the short term.

B.      Notwithstanding the satisfactory quality of the inputs overall, the project demonstrated quite
        clearly that the rate of change to a parastatal framework required to achieve Objective A through
        institutional development is very difficult, if not impossible to attain. The decision to change the
        implementation strategy to Objective B was the correct one.

C.      The project benefited considerably from the high level of donor cooperation and coordination.

D.      The failure to achieve objective B is very serious because the benefits of RRP and ICEP could
        evaporate very quickly without further donor assistance. The inadequacy and poor performance
        of the transaction advisers was one of the contributing factors in the failure to concession TRC.

E.      The outstanding achievement of the project was the progress made in the commercialization of
        TRC with the new focus on customer service, exemplified by the record levels of traffic now
        being carried and the performance of TRC during the El Nino floods period.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
                  Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Freight Traffic (million tonnes)           1.89 million-ton, 1995 Mid Term (MTR)    1.23 million-ton in MTR
                                                                                    1.60 million-ton in Dec. 2002
Rail Operating Margin                      22% in Dec. 2002                         1 % in MTR, 6% in Dec. 2002
Return on Assets (replacement cost)        4% in Dec. 2002                          negative at MTR, negative in Dec. 2002
Mainline Locomotive Availability           75 % in Dec. 2002                        66 % in MTR, 76% in Dec. 2002
Wagon turnaround (days)                    10 days in Dec. 2002                     15 days in MTR, 12 days in Dec. 2002

Most of the targeted performance indicators showed substantial improvement, although not reaching
their target levels.
Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
                  Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate




1 End of project

Table-A1-3 SAR & MTR Targets and Actual Performance

                     Year     1991   1992  1993    1994       MTR     1996    1997  1998     1999     2000    2001    2002
   Indicator                                                  1995                 El Nino
 1989 SAR forecasts           1100   1470  1660    1890       2160    2160    2160  2160     2160     2160       -     -
 freight traffic (1,000 t)
 1995 MTR targets               -     -      -        -       1360    1451    1539  1598     1685     1832       -     -
 freight traffic (1,000 t)
 Actual                        920   920   1210    1234       1342    1244    1090   955     1127     1292     1505   1600
 freight traffic (1,000 t)
 1989 SAR forecasts          (2,300  N/A    -          -        -       -      -       -       -        -       -      -
 Passenger No.(1000)        in 1989)

 Actual                      1714    1442  1747    1517       1251    1009    557    570      617     631      728    684
 Passenger No.(1000)
 1989 SAR forecasts            9%    15%   15%      20%       20%     20%    20%    20%       20%     20%       -      -
 Rate of return on
 assets
 Actual return on assets      11%    14%   14%      13%        9%     5%      4%    2%        8%       4%       4%
 Historic cost
1995 MTR targets                                              1%      1%      1%     1%       2%       4%       -      -
Rate of return on assets
 Actual return on assets                                       -%      -%      -%    -%       0%       -%       0%     -
 Revalued cost
 1989 SAR forecasts            58     64    70       70        70      70     70     70       70      70        -      -
 Loco availability (%)
 1995 MTR targets              -      -      -        -        75      75     75     75       75      75         -     -
 Loco availability (%)
 Actual                         -     59    63      69         66      68     66     56       73      73        72     -
 Loco availability (%)
 1989 SAR forecasts            83     86    89      92         92      92     92     92       92      92        -      -
 Wagon availability (%)
 1995 MTR targets              -      -     -         -        82      85     88     90       90      90         -     -
 Wagon availability (%)
 Actual                        -      -     -         -        82      85     86     68       75      77        76     -
 Wagon availability (%)




(i) Freight Traffic: Table-A1-3 SAR & MTR Targets and Actual Performance shows that 2002 was the
best performing year with significant increase of the freighter traffic (0.92 million-ton in 1991, 1.60
million-ton in 2002). The rapid freight traffic increase in the 4 years since El Nino apparently proves the
enhanced operational capacity of TRC, improved performance of the locomotive and wagon fleet as a



                                                              - 15 -

result of the launching of the Interim Capacity Enhancement Program (ICEP).

(ii) Passenger Traffic: The Table shows that passenger traffic has slightly increased in the last 4 years,
however, it remains less than half of the volume of 1991 (1.7 million in 1991 and 0.7 million in 2002).
With the acquisition of 27 new coaches in 1990s, the average coach availability was 90% in 2001, mostly
accomplishing the target. The improvement of the competing road system and the current policy not to
allow standing passengers, reduced both the demand for passenger transportation on some routes and
the supply on others.

(iii) Locomotive and wagon availability: While the availability of locomotives meets the MTR targets, the
availability of wagons still remained low around 76%, below the targeted 90%. Some 2,400 wagons
were overhauled by 1996, but some were reported not fully overhauled, which may explain the relatively
fast decline of the wagon availability.




                                                  - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



         Table - A2 : Comparison of Project Cost by Components and by TRC & Donors (Estimated & Actual)

                                                   Appraisal
                                    Appraisal                Actual Costs by TRC & Donors    (US$
                                                   Estimate                                        Percentage
  Project Cost by Components     Estimate (US$                              million)
                                                 (Contingecy                                       of Appraisal
                                    million)
                                                  Allocated)     TRC        Donors       Total

Track Rehabilitation                        75.3        106.2         7.3         55.7        63.0      59.3%
Bridge Strengthening                        24.7         34.8         1.9         14.8        16.7      48.0%
Quarry                                      3.9           5.5         0.1          2.1         2.2      40.0%
Plant Maintenance Depot                     6.0           8.5         0.0          5.0         5.0      59.1%
Locomotive Rehabilitation                   9.2          13.0         4.9         30.6        35.5     273.7%
Wagons                                      5.8           8.2         1.0         14.0        15.0     183.4%
Passenger Coaches                           11.1         15.7         0.6         13.1        13.7      87.5%
Maintenance/Accident Equipment              15.8         22.3         0.7          3.9         4.6      20.6%
Signals & Telecoms                          4.6           6.5         2.1          9.6        11.7     180.4%
Service Vehicles                            5.2           7.3         0.2          2.3         2.5      34.1%
Office Equipment                            3.9           5.5         0.1          1.8         1.9      34.6%
El Nino Civil Works                         0.0           0.0         4.0          7.0        11.0     NA
Sub Total (A)                             165.5         233.4        22.9        159.9      182.8       78.3%
Technical Assistance/Studies                23.5         28.9         3.7         26.3        30.0     103.7%
Training                                    7.5           9.2         0.8          1.8         2.6      28.2%
Track Rehabilitation Support                3.0           3.7         1.4          3.2         4.6     123.8%
TA for Concession                           0.0           0.0         0.0          2.1         2.1     NA
Sub Total (B)                               34.0         41.8         5.9         33.4        39.3      93.9%
Total Base Costs (A)+(B)                  199.5         275.2        28.8        193.3      222.1       80.7%
Physical Contingencies                      29.7          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0      -
Price Contingencies                         46.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0      -
Total Project Cost                        275.2         275.2        28.8        193.3      222.1       80.7%




                                                       - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                 Table - A3-1 Economic Rate of Returm

         Investment (US$ Million)           Traffic (million-ton x km)          unit cost   cost saved    net benefit
        Donors  TRC      Total     with project   without        diverted       difference (US$ million) (US$ million)
                                                  project        traffic from  (US$/t.km)
                                                                 road

   1991
   1992    12.0       2.0      14.0         937             937              0    0.035        0.0          -14.0
   1993    17.0       2.8      19.8        1263             909             354   0.034       12.2           -7.6
   1994    12.5       2.0      14.5        1108             882             226   0.034        7.7           -6.9
   1995    17.0       2.8      19.8        1354             855             499   0.033       16.7           -3.1
   1996    20.5       3.4      23.9        1218             830             388   0.033       12.8          -11.1
   1997    20.0       3.3      23.3        1108             805             303   0.032        9.8          -13.4
   1998    18.0       2.9      20.9         708             490             218   0.032        7.0          -14.0
   1999    11.5       1.9      13.4        1185             757             428   0.031       13.5           0.1
   2000    12.0       2.0      14.0        1342             746             596   0.031       18.5           4.5
   2001    11.0       1.8      12.8        1543             723             820   0.031       25.0          12.2
   2002    13.0       2.1      15.1        1644             702             942   0.030       28.4          13.2
   2003                                    1644             681             963   0.030       28.6          28.6
   2004                                    1595             660             934   0.029       27.3          27.3
   2005                                    1547             640             906   0.029       26.1          26.1
   2006                                    1500             621             879   0.028       24.9          24.9
   2007                                    1455             603             853   0.028       23.8          23.8
   2008                                    1412             585             827   0.027       22.7          22.7
   2009                                    1369             567             802   0.027       21.7          21.7
   2010                                    1328             550             778   0.027       20.8          20.8
   2011                                    1288             533             755   0.026       19.8          19.8
   2012                                    1250             517             732   0.026       18.9          18.9
   2013                                    1212             502             710   0.025       18.1          18.1
   2014                                    1176             487             689   0.025       17.3          17.3
   2015                                    1141             472             668   0.025       16.5          16.5
   2016                                    1106             458             648   0.024       15.8          15.8
   2017                                    1073             444             629   0.024       15.1          15.1
   2018                                    1041             431             610   0.024       14.4          14.4
   2019                                    1010             418             592   0.023       13.8          13.8
   2020    -41.0     -6.7     -47.7         980             406             574   0.023       13.2          60.9


   Total    124       20       144                                                            Total        366.6

                                                                                              NPV           29.0

                                                                                              ERR          14.4%

A 3.1 Economic Rate of Return:

The assumptions used to calculate the ex-post economic returns on the Project are as follows:

(1) Only economic investments and benefits have been included in the analysis. The investments made
    by ADB in the passenger services have thus been omitted from the analysis.
(2) Only donor investment is included; TRC had to repay the cost of a proportion of CIDA spare parts to
    GOT within 12 months and cannot be considered as long-term investment.
(3) Investments made in the fixed infrastructure are assumed to have a 50 year life and a residual value
    has been included in the analysis
(4) The Credit became effective in April 1992 and 1992 is taken as the base level of traffic. Without the



                                                            - 18 -

      project investment, it is assumed that effective freight capacity would decline at an average annual
      rate of 3%.
(5) Without IDA assistance, it would have taken TRC two years to open fully the rail network after the El
      Nino floods.
(6) Without additional investment, after 2003, TRC capacity will decline at 3% per annum, reflecting the
      increasing age of the assets and the deteriorating track between Itigi and Tabora.
(7) Transport cost savings from additional rail traffic are estimated at US$0.035/ton-km in 1992. The
      unit savings will decline by 1.5% per annum throughout the evaluation period; reflecting initially
      declining road transport costs as the road network is improved and subsequently increasing TRC
      costs.
(8) The very substantial potential benefits from concessioning TRC to the private sector have
      not been included in the analysis. These benefits are expected to include: lower TRC costs from
      better management and lower staffing levels, improved service levels and higher system capacity
      (at present, TRC cannot carry the level of traffic on offer, estimated at about 2 million tonnes).

The overall economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 14.4%, with residual values (11.9%, without)
and a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$29.0 million (12%). The economic returns from the project are
rather lower than those estimated in the SAR, which estimated an ERR of 18%. Compared, however, to
projects of a similar concept (Kenya Railways II, for example), freight traffic increased substantially (but
less than the SAR forecast) and marginally acceptable economic rates of return were generated.

A 3.2 Financial Performance of TRC:

While the operating performance of TRC has increased substantially over the life of the project, there
has been no sustained improvement in financial performance. Despite the level of investment, the rail
working ratio has remained largely unchanged at about 70%.

                               Table-A3-2 TRC Income Statement
                                                                                             (Tsh billion)
                  Year     1990 1991  1992 1993  1994  MTR  1996  1997   1998    1999 2000   2001  2002
                                                       1995             El Nino
 Operating Revenue
                      Rail  4.1  8.7  14.6  19.4 23.6  32.3 33.9   32.4   26.5   42.1  48.4   56.5 58.1
                    Total   5.5  10.0 15.9  21.4 25.6  34.5 26.1   36.4   29.6   44.7  48.5   56.6 58.1
Other Income                2.3  2.0   2.0  4.6   3.3  3.2   2.6   3.8    5.0    9.9    5.1   2.1   0.7
Total Income                7.8  12.0 17.9  26.0 28.9  37.7 38.7   40.2   34.6   54.6  53.6   58.8 58.9
Operating Costs
                      Rail  3.7  6.4   8.2  14.3 14.4  21.0 22.4   23.5   20.4   30.3  35.6   38.9 41.5
                    Total   4.7  7.7   9.4  15.9 16.6  24.2 25.4   26.5   23.1   32.5  35.6   38.9 41.5
Depreciation
            Historic cost   0.1  0.1   0.5  0.6   1.1  1.3   1.5   1.6    1.5    2.3    2.1   3.3   3.0
          Revalued cost                          12.5  10.0 10.1   10.3   10.3   10.6   8.3   8.6   8.7
Administrative Costs        0.6  0.8   1.7  1.6   2.0  2.7   3.2   3.1    3.2    3.8    3.6   3.9   4.5
General expenses            0.5  1.1   1.8  1.6   2.0  2.7   4.0   5.0    4.7    6.2    6.7   7.2   6.5
Financial expenses          2.1  1.6   2.6  2.0   4.5  4.9   2.6   1.8    2.2    7.2    4.8   4.4   1.9
Total Costs
            Historic cost   8.0  11.3 16.1  21.8 26.2  35.7 36.8   38.0   34.8   52.0  52.7   57.7 57.4
          Revalued cost                          37.5  44.4 45.4   46.6   43.6   60.4  58.9   62.9 63.1


Financial Indicators
Rail working ratio         0.90  0.73 0.56  0.74 0.61  0.65 0.66   0.73   0.77   0.72  0.74   0.69 0.71
Gross operating ratio
            Historic cost  1.07  0.98 0.85  0.92 0.85  0.89 0.95   0.99   1.10   1.00  0.99   0.94 0.95
          Revalued cost                          1.29  1.15 1.18   1.23   1.40   1.19  1.12   1.03 1.05
Total operating ratio
            Historic cost  1.02  0.94 0.90  0.84 0.91  0.95 0.95   0.94   1.01   0.95  0.98   0.98 0.98
          Revalued cost                          1.30  1.18 1.17   1.16   1.26   1.11  1.10   1.07 1.07
ACP (days)                 157   107   61   37    61   40    48    39      58    52     32    33
 Average freight tariff    1.57  3.09 4.40 3.22  3.49  3.33 3.88 4.03    4.69    3.81 4.27   3.91  3.63
 (USc/ton-km)




                                                      - 19 -

Railways are normally assumed to be an industry with declining average costs (substantial fixed costs
and low marginal costs); such a situation is not reflected in the financial performance of TRC. Operating
revenues increased substantially, during the project period, but TRC's costs increased at approximately
the same rates:

Annual average growth:               Rail revenues            16.1%
                                     Rail operating costs     17.2%
                                     Depreciation             26.7%
                                     Administration           13.3%
                                     General expenses         18.9%

Part of the cost increases reflect the revisions to wage and salary rates, which were extremely low at the
start of the project, and part reflect the increasing age of TRC's asset base and higher maintenance
costs. While it might be argued that TRC management could have kept a tighter control over costs, for
example by further reductions in staffing levels, TRC's financial control improved substantially over the
life of the project. There was a very marked improvement in the accounts receivable and much greater
credit control.



A 3.2 Financial Rate of Return (FRR):

The assumptions made in calculating FRR were as follows.

1. Revenues only include TRC freight charges, they do not include the small revenue from TARC
    wheelage charge.
2. The same traffic assumptions are made as in the economic analysis:
    Without situation - there is a gradual decline in traffic, as in the economic analysis.
    With situation - actual traffic to 2002, constant in 2003, and then gradual decline, as in economic
    analysis.
3. Cost assumptions:
    Locomotive/rolling stock maintenance, locomotive running and traffic are variable costs, other costs
    are assumed fixed. Depreciation costs are not relevant to the analysis.
4. All other conditions are those outlined in Section A 3.1 Economic Rate of Return.

These assumptions are approximate - there will be an element of fixed costs in the variable costs and
vice-versa, but more or less balance out.

The overall financial internal rate of return (FIRR) is estimated at 4.1%, and a negative Net Present
Value (NPV) of US$49.5 million. The financial internal rate of return of the project was not estimated in
SAR.




                                                      - 20 -

                                         Table - A3-3 Financial Rate of Returm

     Investment (US$ Million)  Traffic (million-ton x km)    Average  Revenue Revenue Costswith    Costs    Incremental Net Financial
     Donors TRC     Total    with     without Additional      tariff   with     without   Project without    Revenue     Benefits
                             project project     freight ton-US$/ton-  Project  Project US$million Project    Surplus   US$million
                                                 kms          km     US$million US$million        US$million US$million

1991
1992    12.0     2.1   14.1      937         937           0  0.044    41.2      41.2      45.3    45.3         0.0        -14.1
1993    17.0     3.0   20.0     1263         909        354   0.032    40.7      29.3      48.7    42.2         4.9        -15.1
1994    12.5     2.2   14.7     1108         882        226   0.035    38.7      30.8      42.5    36.4         1.8        -12.9
1995    17.0     3.0   20.0     1354         855        499   0.033    45.1      28.5      51.4    42.0         7.2        -12.8
1996    20.5     3.6   24.1     1218         830        388   0.039    47.3      32.2      56.3    47.6         6.4        -17.7
1997    20.0     3.5   23.5     1108         805        303   0.040    44.7      32.4      55.4    48.0         4.8        -18.7
1998    18.0     3.1   21.1      708         490        218   0.047    33.2      23.0      45.6    39.5         4.1        -17.0
1999    11.5     2.0   13.5     1185         757        428   0.038    45.1      28.8      53.4    43.5         6.4         -7.1
2000    12.0     2.1   14.1     1210         746        464   0.043    51.7      31.8      57.3    44.8         7.3         -6.8
2001    11.0     1.9   12.9     1380         723        657   0.039    54.0      28.3      56.2    41.3        10.8         -2.1
2002    13.0     2.3   15.3     1487         702        785   0.039    58.0      27.4      55.3    38.3        13.6         -1.6
2003                            1487         681        806   0.039    58.0      26.5      55.7    38.0        13.7         13.7
2004                            1442         660        782   0.039    56.3      25.7      54.7    37.5        13.3         13.3
2005                            1399         640        759   0.039    54.6      25.0      53.8    37.1        12.9         12.9
2006                            1357         621        736   0.039    52.9      24.2      52.9    36.7        12.5         12.5
2007                            1316         603        714   0.039    51.3      23.5      52.0    36.3        12.1         12.1
2008                            1277         585        692   0.039    49.8      22.8      51.1    35.9        11.8         11.8
2009                            1239         567        672   0.039    48.3      22.1      50.2    35.5        11.4         11.4
2010                            1201         550        652   0.039    46.9      21.4      49.4    35.1        11.1         11.1
2011                            1165         533        632   0.039    45.5      20.8      48.6    34.7        10.7         10.7
2012                            1130         517        613   0.039    44.1      20.2      47.9    34.4        10.4         10.4
2013                            1097         502        595   0.039    42.8      19.6      47.1    34.0        10.1         10.1
2014                            1064         487        577   0.039    41.5      19.0      46.4    33.7         9.8         9.8
2015                            1032         472        559   0.039    40.2      18.4      45.7    33.4         9.5         9.5
2016                            1001         458        543   0.039    39.0      17.9      45.0    33.1         9.2         9.2
2017                             971         444        526   0.039    37.9      17.3      44.4    32.8         8.9         8.9
2018                             942         431        511   0.039    36.7      16.8      43.7    32.5         8.7         8.7
2019                             913         418        495   0.039    35.6      16.3      43.1    32.2         8.4         8.4
2020   -41.0    -6.7 -47.7       886         406        480   0.039    34.6      15.8      42.5    31.9         8.2         55.9


Total   124      22     146                                                                                    Total       114.7

                                                                                                               FIRR        4.1%

                                                                                                               NPV       ($49.46)




                                                                     - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/12/1988                2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (1)
              01/30/1989                2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (1)
              07/24/1989                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/29/1990                4    FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1);
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (2);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1)
              01/29/1991                2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (1)
              04/03/1991                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)

 Supervision

              11/04/1992                3    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);         2               2
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (1)
              05/12/1993                3    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);         2               2
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (1)
              02/02/1994                4    SR. INFORM. SPECIALIST (1);      1               2
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SR. RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              07/22/1994                2    SR. RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);        S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              02/06/1995                3    SR. TRANSP. ECONOMIST (1);       S               S
                                             SR. RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              08/25/1995                2    SR. RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);        S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              03/08/1996                3    SR. TRANSP. ECONOMIST (1);       S               S
                                             SR. RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              08/21/1996                3    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);         U               S
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              03/21/1997                2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           U               S



                                              - 22 -

                                                 TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1)
               10/01/1997                   3    SR. RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);            U    S
                                                 SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                                 (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
               04/22/1998                   1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                 U    S
               10/06/1998                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                U    S
                                                 SR. RAILWAY EXPERT (1)
               02/16/1999                   1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                 S    S
               10/06/1999                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S    S
                                                 RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1)
               02/16/2000                   1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                 S    S
               10/06/2000                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S    S
                                                 RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1)
               10/06/2000                   3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S    S
                                                 RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1);
                                                 FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
               11/19/2001                   1    TASK MANAGER (1)                     S    S
               02/12/2002                   1    TASK MANAGER (1)                     S    S
               02/12/2002                   1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                 S    U
               11/11/2002                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                 S    U
                                                 SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 81.1                             205.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      57.8                             163.5
  Supervision                               224.1                             912.1
  ICR
  Total                                     363.0                           1,281.0
Note: Supervision includes ICR as these are not reflected separately in the system.
Data as of January 6, 2003.




                                                  - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. SAR Tanzania Railways Restructuring Project, May 24, 1991
2. TRC Reports "Joint Supervision Mission", from January/February 1994 through October 2001 (issued
   semiannually), and Joint Donor Supervision Mission reports.
3. TRC Mid Term Review Mission Report, January/February 1995
4. TRC Rehabilitation of Flood Affected Bridges and Culverts on the Link Line, August 2002
5. TRC Railways Restructuring Project: Review of Accounting Systems and Internal Controls Report (El
   Nino Emergency Civil Works), Tanzania Audit Corporation, August 26, 1998
6. TRC Railways Restructuring Project Audited Accounts for the Year Ended December 31 from 1996
   through 2002, Tanzania Audit Corporation
7. TRC Railways Restructuring Project Monthly Report from August 1997 through December 2002.
8. Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program -SSATP- Working Paper No.7: Railway Restructuring
   Seminar for Anglophone and Lusophone countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, Bulawayo, Zimbabwe, June
   1992.
9. Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program -SSATP- Working Paper No.32: Seminar on Railway
   Concessioning in Sub-Saharan Africa, Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire, October 1997




                                                 - 26 -

- 27 -

