Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
j2Z  Z Z (- -/ 7A
Report No. 9449-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MAY 24, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnante of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Tanzanian Shilling
TSh 1.0 - US$0.005
USS 1.0 - TSh 194
(as of March 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                          3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     0.6214 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (tonnes)   =            1.023 short tons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADG            =     Assistant Director General
AfDB           =     African Development Bank
ATC            =     Air Tanzania Corporation
CIDA           =     Canadian International Development Agency
DG             =     Director General
DANIDA               Danish International Development Agency
EAC            =     East African Community
EARC           =     East African Railways Corporation
EARH                 East African Railways and Harbors
EDF            =     European Development Fund
EEC            =     European Economic Community
EP                   Emergency Rehabilitation Program for TRC
ERP            =     Economic Recovery Program
ESAP           =     Economic and Social Action Plan
gtkm           =     gross tonnes-km
ICB            =     International Competitive Bidding
KfW            =     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LIB            =     Limited International Bidding
mb             =     megabyte
MCW            =     Ministry of Communications and Works
MOU            =     Memorandum of Understanding
NTC            =     National Transport Corporation
ntkm           =     net tonne-km
ODA            =     Overseas Development Agency
OIP            =     Operations Improvement Plan
TAC            =     Tanzania Audit Corroration
TAZARA         =     Tanzania-Zambia Ri lways Authority
THA            =     Tanzania Harbours Authority
TRC            =     Tanzania Railways Corporation
WFP            -     World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



TANZANIA                    FOR OMCIAL USE ONVW
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE . .  .  . . . . . . .. .  i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . .             ..         i-v
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . .....                  1
B.   The Transport Sector and the Eccnomy . . . . . . . . .              1
C.   Government Objectives and Policy in the Sector . . . .              3
D.   Strategy for Transport Sector Recovery . . . . . . . .              5
E.   Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector  . . . .              9
F.   Rationale for IDA Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . .              9
II.   THE RAILWAYS
A.   Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              10
B.   Regulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             11
C.   Organization, Management and Staffing  . . . . . . . .              12
(i)   Organization and Management  . . .  .    .  . .              12
(ii)  Staffing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             13
D.   Physical Assets and Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . .              14
(i)   Track  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             14
(ii)  Signalling and Telecommunications  . . . . . . .             14
(iii) Motive Power . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             15
(iv)  Wagon Stock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             16
(v)   Passenger Coaches                  . . . . . . .  .          17
E.   Operations . . . . .  . .         .        . . . . .  . . .        17
F.   Operations Information System  . . . . . . . . . . . .             18
G.   Financial Performance  . . . . . .         .  . . . . .  . . . .   19
H.   Restructur4g ng Strategyegy...                     ......          21
III.  THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .              29
B.   Genesis of the Project . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . .             29
C.   Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             29
(i)   Physical Investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             31
(ii)  Organization Development and Operational Support             37
D.   Cost Estimates and Project Financing . . . . . . . . .              45
E.   Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              46
F.   Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             48
G.   Financing Plan . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  .  . . .             49
H.   Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              50
I.   Reporting and Monitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             51
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents    (continued)
Pane No.
J.  Environmental Impact, Industrial Health and Safety . ,       52
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Financial Recovery Strategy and Projections  , . . . .      54
B.  Passenger Service  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       61
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Project Benefits and Costs . . . . . . . . .  . . . .       62
B.  Economic Returns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       63
C.  Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       64
D.   Passenger Services . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       65
VI.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . .      66
ANNEXES
2-1       TRC Manpower Establishment
2-2       Current Speed Restrictions
2-3       Locomotive Types, Characteristics and Holding
2-4       Loss of Capacity of Locomotives
2-5       Wagon Types, Characteristics and Holding
2-6       Ministerial Directive and Memorandum of Understanding
2-7       Operations Improvement Plan Targets
2-8       Traffic Analysis
2-9       Organization Chart of TRC
2-10      Maintenance Costs
2-11      The Emergency Rehabilitation Program for TRC
3-1       Track Rehabilitation Program
3-2       Locomotive Rehabilitation and Rebuilding Program
3-3       Locomotive Requirement Analysis
3-4       Terms of Reference for Management and Supervisory Development
Program
3-5       Proposed Project Costs
3-6       Schedule of Estimated Disbursements



TaSle of Contents    (continued)
ANNEXES
4-1        Traffic Projections
4-2        Projected Freight Capacity Under Different Zfficiency and
Investment Scenarios
4-3        Financial Projections
5          Economic Evaluation
6          Supervision Plan
CHARTS
1          Implementation Plan
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission that visited
Tanzania in June/July, 1990 and a follow-up mission in February, 1991.
The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs. Y. Crookes (Mission Leader/Sr.
Financial Analyst), S. Nayak (Sr. Railways Engineer), Y. Kedia (Railways
Specialist) and M. Gustavason (Financial Analyst). Messrs. V. Kingsmill,
J. Craik (ODA) and R. Waddington (Consultant Railways Specialist, CIDA)
participated in the mission. Ms. C. Loys (KM) also participated in the
pre-appraisal misselon. The report was reviewed by Mr. I. Sam (Division
Chief, AP6IN). The Director of the Department is Mr. S. Denning. The
lead adviser for the project is Mr. L. Thompson (Railways Adviser, INUTD)
from whom valuable comments have been received in the preparation of the
project. The peer reviewers were Messrs J. de Weille (OEDDI) and J.
Graves (AFTTF) and Ms. J. Holt (AF2IN). Their comments have been fully
taken into account in the report.



*A2A
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN TEE PROJECT FILE
1. 'Development Study - Draft Final Report' - Consultants' Study (CPCS,
Canada), 1990.
2. 'Prograue for Transport Sector Recoverys The Transport Sector Donors'
Conference, Arusha, December 1987 - Technlcal Working Papers"
Government of Tanzania in collaboration with IDA, December 1987.
3. 'Matrix of Actions for Credit Processings Status on Conditions for
Negotlations, Key Issues for Negotlations, Conditions for Board
Presentation" Tanzania Railways Corporation, February 2, 1991.



- it -
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers      United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:   Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC)
Amounts        SDR 56.1 million (US$76.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity
On-Lendinp Terms:           The Credit would be on-lent to TRC at a fixed
rate of 112 for a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by TRC.
Cofinancing:   The project, with a total cost of US$275.2 million will be
parallel-financed by the African Development Fund (AfDF),
CIDA, the European Development Fund (EDF), KfV, ODA (UK)
and WFP. TRC will finance 95Z of local costs, or &bout
US$109.6 million equivalent at prevailing exchange rates,
out of its cash flow.
Project        The main objectives of the project are to:
Objectivess    (i)  strengthen  the  organization  of  TRC,  eliminate
regulatory bottlenecks to its effective operations and set
it on a path of a commercially viable entity; and (ii)
rehabilitate infrastructural assets, replace obsolete and
uneconomic operational assets and provide limited new
investments consistent with the prospects for growth in
traffic.    The  project will  support  a  comprehensive
restructuring program for TRC comprising (a) reform of the
regulatory framework governing the conduct of its business;
(b) revamping of its organization to strengthen its
capacity to manage its core railways activity; (c)
restructuring of its operating procedures and systems to
make operations more efficient; and (d) rebuilding of its
capacity through reducing the huge backlog of deferred
maintenance on its assets.
Project        The proposed project would consist of: (a) the
Descriytions   rehabilitation of track, telecommunications systems, loco-
motives, wagons and coaches; (b) the replacement of
obsolete and life-expired maintenance equipment, vehicles
and coaches; (c) organizational support and training to
strengthen management systems and staff capacity in all
functional areas; and (d) support for improvements in the
working environment and incentives, including enhanced
pensions, for the workfo ce.



- iii -
Justification  TRC represents a substantial investment in a
and Risksa     strategically  located  but  poorly  performing  railways
system.  The system links virtually all the major urban
centers of Tanzania and serves a command area of the
countr  accounting for oer 40? of agricultural output and
must of the country's exports.  Further, TRC is a major
artery for transit traffic from neighboring landlocked
countries of Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and eastern Zaire.
It is, under efficient operating conditions, the most cost-
effective means of transport of bulky goods over the long
distances   that   are   characteristic   of   Tanzania's
international trade. Yet, its effective capacity is only
about 502 of what it can achieve under reasonably efficient
operating conditions. The gross replacement cost of its
assets (today's prices) is about US$550 million equivalent,
but it earns little return on this asset base and is
incapable of maintaining it in good condition, let alone
provide for its replacement. The project, by addressing
the underlying reasons for its poor operating and financial
performance will enable TRC to increase its capacity, lower
its unit cost, earn a good return on its assets and be
well-placed to be financially self-sustaining and pay a
return to Government's substantial investment in it. The
economy would benefit directly through lower transport
costs for long distance movements and the potential for
greater generation of foreign currency through TRC's
increased capacity to handle transit traffic reliably and
efficiently.   The major risk is that TRC's management,
after a decade of total lack of accountability for
effective use of its assets, may not be able to achieve the
Improvements 'A managerial efficiency envisaged under the
project.  The program of management strengthening to be
lmplemented under the project would contribute towards
mitigating this risk. However, the only durable insurance
against this risk would be Government's confirmed
commitment to hold TRC management accountable for the
monitorable performance objectives of the strategy and to
take effective remedial actions if these are not met.



- iv -
Estimated Costs:
(US$ million equivalent)
Local    Foreg       Total     Z Fore.g
Track Rehabilitation                50.5      24.8       75.3          32.9
Bridge Strengthening                13.1      11.6       24.7          47.0
Quarry                               0.3       3.6        3e9          92.3
Plant Maintenance Depot              1.6       4.4        6.0          73.3
Locomotives Rehabilitation           0.8       8.4        9.2         91.3
Wagons                               0.9       4.9        5.8          84.5
Passenger Coaches                    1.0      10.1       11.1         91.0
Maintenance/Accident Equipment       1.4      14.4       15.8          91.1
Signals & Telecoms                  2.1        2.5        4.6         54.3
Service Vahicles                     0.5       4.7        5.2         90.4
Information Systems                  0.4       3.5        3.9         89.7
Technical Assistance                 5.2      13.9       19.1          72.8
Training                             1.0       6.5        7.5         86.7
Organizational Support               1.0       2.5        3.5          71.4
Track Rehab Support                  2.1       0.9        3.0         30.0
Studies                              0.3       0.6        0.9         66.7
Total Base Costs                82.2      117.3     199.5
Physical Contingencies             12.5       17.4       29.7
Price Contingencies                20.1       25.9       46.0
114.6     160.6      275.2         58.4
92=         mm 
Financing Plans
Local       Foreign         Total
(US$ million)
TRC                                       109.6          --           109.6
IDA                                         --          76.0           76.0
AfDF                                        --          31.2            31.2
EDP                                         --          18.0            18.0
CIDA                                       3.0           7.3            10.3
Kfw                                         --          18.3            18.3
ODA                                         --           8.5             8.5
1"P                                         2.0          1.3             3.3
Total                     114.6        160.6          275.2



Estimated
Disbursement of
IDA Credit (US$ million)s
FY92    FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Annual            4.5    14.1   15.7   16.4   11.9    7.4    4.5    1.5
Cumulative        4.5    18.6   34.3   50.7   62.6   70.0   74.5   76.0
Economic Rate of
Returns               18X
Maps                  IBRD Map No. 22878



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Background
1.01      After a decade of good growth rates in GDP and substantial
improvements in the social sectors in the 1960s and early 1970s, the
Tanzanian economy experienced severe declines throughout the late 1970t and
early 19809 with per capita incomes falling sharply between 1978 and 1982.
After several unsuccessful attempts at reversing the decline, Governmeat,
in early 1986, launched arn Economic Recovery Program (URP) with the
objectives of (a) Increasing agricultural output through appropriate price
incentives, increasE loreign exchange and budgetary resources to the
sector and restructured marketing channels for agricultural produce; (b)
increasing capacity utilization in industry through increased allocati,n of
foreign exchange to priority subsectors; (c) rehabilitating the country's
physical infrastructure; and (d) ensuring the sustainability of the
recovery of the economy through prudent fiscal, monetary and exchange rate
management with specific adjustment targets for each instrument of
macroeconomic policy. Although some of the specific adjustment targets
were not achieved, the ERP, nonetheless, achieved its main objective of
reversing the secular decline in economic activity. In 1986, GDP grew by
about 3.4?, enough to generate a growth in per capita incomes for the first
time since 1978. In the subsequent three years, GDP growth averaged about
4.4? p.a. However, the recovery in economic activity exposed a number of
serious structural constraints inhibiting its sustainability in the futures
(i) a banking system with most of its assets tied up in non-performing
loans to loss-making parastatals and incapable of mobilizing domestic
resources for productive investments; (ii) inadequate processing facilities
and rigid and inefficient parastatal marketing channels for agricultural
produce; (iii) severely deteriorated transport infrastructure and
inefficient transport agencies; and (iv) significant erosion in the
capacity of social sector institutions to provide an acceptable level and
quality of service in education and health. To address these structural
problems and consolidate the achievements of the ERP, Government has
embarked on the implementation of a three-y6ar (1989 to 1992) Economic and
Social Action Plan (ESAP) with the objectives of (a) Improving the
efficiency of domestic resource mobilization through reform and
restructuring of the banking system; (b) rehabilitating the country's
physical infrastructure in support of directly productive activity; (c)
rehabilitating the country's social services; (d) revamping the industrial
sector; and (e) continuing to maintain a favorable macroeconomic climate
and incentives structure for agricultural activity.
B. The Transport Sector and the Economy
1.02      A well functioning transport system is crucial to the sustained
economic recovery of Tanzania. The main linkages between transport and
economic recovery are evident in four key areas: (a) the size of the
country, its structure of production and its population distribution; (b)
the cost to the economy of an unreliable, deteriorated network; (c) the
fiscal implications of inefficient transport operations; and (d) the
sector's importance as a major foreign exchange aarner.



- 2 -
1,03      First, the pattern of settlement and economic activity in the
country givi" transportation an extraordinarily strategic role in economic
development. Tanzania has a large territory (almost equal in size to
France and Spain combined) with a widely disp'rsed population, mainly
around its geographic periphery. Agriculture, accounting for 542 of GDP,
is dominated by smallholders scattered in small rural communities, while
the major markets and the processing and collection centers for crops, as
well as the distribution points for agricultural inputs and fuel, are
concentrated in urban centers located at considerable distances from each
other and from the major coastal seaport of Dar es Salaam. Exports are
domisated by primary agricultural commodities of high bulk but low value.
Growth in agricultural output, which will constitute the primary basis for
growth in the economy for the foreseeable future, is predicated on the
transport system being able to efficiently integrate the rural communities
with the urban centers and facilitate reliable and cost-effective transport
of export crops from the major collection points to the port of Dar es
Salaam. These two zoles have not been effectively performed by the
transport system and, as diecussed in the next paragraph, the cost to the
economy has been enormous.
1.04      Second, Tanzania's domestic railway system, wh2ch is
strategically located to serve most of the major urban centers, has been
unable to meet the demand for low-cost, long-distance transport of export
crops and of critical inputs such as petroleum products and fertilizer in
recent years, due to its poor operational performance. As a consequence,
significant stockpiles of cotton - one of Tanzania's major export crops -
for which road transport is inappropriate on competitive grounds, have
built up over the last few years and a significant proportion of the other
export traffic, as well as bulk inputs, have been diverted to roads.  The
total cost to the economy of stockholding and diversion of traffic, that an
effectively performing railway would have been able to handle, is of the
order of US$40 million p.a. Tanzania's road infrastructure, which is
crucial to the linkage cf rural cozmunities to the urban areas, has
deteriorated markedly over the last decade and a half and its coverage of
rural areas is limited even by regional standards.  The state of the roads,               IF
two thirds of which are impassable or unmaintainale, imposes significant
penalties on agricultural activity through its effect on vehicle operating
costs, delayed evacuation and damage to crops. Losses imposed on the
economy through higher vehicle costs alone are estimated at up to US$150
million p.a., equivalent to about one-third of the country's export
earnings. For the ports, the long dwell time of containers in the port,
caused by the inefficiency of operations as well as cumbersome customs
procedures to clear the cargo, costs the economy about US$10 million p.a.
In working capital costs and demurrage charges (assuming excess dwell time
is 20 days per imported container). Based on these calculations, it is
conceivable that the economy is losing nearly US$200 million p.a. in direct
economic costs due to the deteriorated transport infrastructure and its
inefficient operatiei. If the indirect costs such as loss of crop, theft,
loss of export market, spoilage, etc, due to the current transport problems
are taken Into consideration, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to
see how Tanzanian goods could be competitive in the world market, or how
the cost of living could be held down. Vithout significant rehabilitation
and actions to restructure the modes of operation and maintenance of the



roads and railways, these costs and physical impediments will constitute a
major barrier to sustained economic recovery.
1.05      Third, Tanzania's transport system is characterized by a
significant degree of public sector participation. The transport
parastatals' financial performance has deteriorated substantially in the
last decade with most of them making losses or generating low returns on
their assets as a result of inefficient utilization of capacity, high fixed
costs and sub-economic prices. In 1987, the combined losses of the
transport parastatals amounted to US$55 million. Government budgetary
support of the transport parastatals' cash flow shortfall is small as most
of it is financed by short-term borrowings from the state-owned financial
system or deferred payments to suppliers. Although not directly affecting
the level of the Government's current account deficit, this mode of
financing has significant and adverse implications on current levels of
domestic credit creation and the future level of Government budgetary
support to restructure unsustainable levels of short-term indebtedness to
the banking system and suppliers. Addressing the underlying causes of the
parastatals' poor financial performance will contribute to the maintenance
of a sound macroeconomic climate, which is a key basis for the
effectiveness of the incentive structures set in place under the ERP and
which will be maintained under the ESAP.
1.06      Finally, the tzansport sector has an important role to play in
the generation of additional sources of foreign exchange for the country.
Tanzania offers the intrinsically lowest cost route to a seaport for
Zambia, Rwanda, and Burundi; and is an important alternative route for the
transport of Uganda's, Malawi's and eastern Zaire's foreign trade traffic,
largely because of the possibility of using the railways network for most
of the distance, and because they can diversify their use of alternative
transport corridors rather than being held hostage to one route. However,
this potential has never been fully tapped, largely because the cost
advantages have been significantly outweighed by the inefficiencies of the
roads and railways leading to extensive detention of traffic in transit.
Impr:vements in the service reliability of the railways and the operating
capacity of the port of Dar es Salaam and a generally more commercial
orientation of financial management would allow Tanzania to increase its
net foreign currency earnings from the transport sector. Currently, the
port subsector is the second largest foreign exchange earner in the country
after coffee, earning more than US$36 million p.a. Potentially, the
transport sector can earn between US$55 and 75 million p.a. (equivalent to
about 12-18Z of total export earnings) in foreign exchange from transit
traffic if the system were operated more effectively.
C. Government Objectives and Policz in the Sector
1.07      Given the critical state of the tru. sport sector, the Government
called a Transport Sector Donors' Conference in December 1987 in Arusha.
At the Conference, a draft National Transport Policy document was presented
along with a Conference document entitled 'Programme for Transport Sector
Recovery* which outlined the basic policy, institutional changes and
rehabilitation requirements of the sector in order to reestablish the
transport infrastructure and services to cater to the requirements of the



- 4 -
economy. As enunciated at the Conferenca, the basic objective of the
Government in the transport sector is to generate immediate improvements in
the supply of transport services in the first instance, followed by a more
sustained growth in the capacity and the volume of services commensurate
with the expans4.on taking place under URP. As outlined in the Conference
document, sustained improvement in the delivery of transport services will
require major effort and change in the way transport has been managed in
the past. The basic reforms needed in the seLtor are outlined belows
(a) deteriorated infrastructure requires a major shift in public
expenditure towards the roads sector. Over the past decade and
a half, there has been a precipitous drop in the funds allocated
for recurrent and development funding for the road sectors
Tanzania spent only 3-62 of its total public expenditures on
roads, where 10-20? is normal for countries with far better
maintained road networks;
(b) a more flexible and dynamic response to road infrastructure
development requires a major institutional change to move away
from the existing highly centralized administrative system to a
more decentralized system with greater delegation of authority;
5C) to improve the financial and operational efficiency of transport
parastatals, comercially oriented management must be adopted,
including cost-based tariff setting (taking into consideration
proper depreciation of assets and improvements in operational
efficiency), bonus/incentive schemes to reward good performance,
and a rigorous cost control systems. The enunciated Government
policy is for all parastatals to generate at least an operating
surplus in the short-term;
(d) similar to the financial objectives for parastatals, cost
recovery for the road sector must be improved, i.e. the revenues
generated from the road sector should cover at least the
recurrent and periodic road maintenance cost;
(e) to improve provision of road transport services, all
administered tariffs for trucking and passenger transport sector
should be removed;
(f) to develop the local capacity in the transport sector more
vigorously, private sector development should be promoted in the
areas of civil works, engineering consultancy, mechanical
services, truck and passenger transportation, and air charters;
and
(g) to promote regional integration, customs procedures and transit
arrangements should be simplified to improve the ease with which
transit carlo can pass through Tanzania.



D. Strat.sa for Transport Sector Recovery
1.08      In partnership with IDA, the Government has formulated three
major programs to address the shortcomings of the transport sectors the
Integrated Roads Project (Credit 2149 - TA), Port Modernization Project I1
(Credit 2095 - TA) and the proposed Railway Restructuring Project. With
the majority of required financing secured or pledged, the investments in
the transport sector, supported by Bank Group operations, will total
US$1,400 million over the next five to eight years. The largest allocation
is for the roads sector with US$980 million, followed by railways with
about US$300 million, and the port sector with US$120 million. The
magnitude of investment foreseen is consistent with the recommendation of
the Public Expenditure Review (May 1989 Report No. 7558-TA), which suggests
a major shift of public funds to the transport sector, increasing to over
20Z of the total development budget expenditure. The following sections
outline the development strategy for each of the subsectors as formulated
in the ongoing projects and this proposed project.
1.09      Roads.   The deterioration of the road networks has been caused
primarily by: (a) inadequate funding for road maintenance; (b) a cumbersome
and inefficient institutional structure for road administration; (c) a
highly centralized and bureaucratic procurement and administrative
decision-making process; and (d) inadequate technical capacity to carry out
maintenance and manage contracts. Efforts to develop trunk road
maintenance capacity under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects (Credits
507-TA and 876-TA) failed to realize any improvements in road conditions
(PPAR Nos. 6483 and 6938). Road rehabilitation under the on-going Sixth
Highway Project (Credit 1688-TA) was extremely slow in starting, mainly
because of institutional weaknesses and the protracted procurement process
caused by outdated government regulations.
1.10      The Government has recognized that a major restructuring of
roads administration is necessary if road networks are to be maintained in
good condition to serve their economic purposes. The primary objectives of
the Government in the subsector are to restore the country's essential
roads, to develop the institutional capacity for their maintenance and to
streamline procurement regulations to support the timely implementation of
maintenance and investment activities.   The institutional objective will
be to transform the Ministry of Works (MoW) from a "blue collar'
construction-oriented ministry to a 'white collar' management-oriented
ministry, with executive authority being delegated to MoW's 20 Regional
Engineer's Offices (REOs) for implementing road investments and
maintenance. This effort is now being implemented under the Integrated
Roads Project (Credit 2149 - TA).
1.11      Road Transport.   The trucking sector plays a major role in the
domestic transport industry, carrying nearly 702 of the estimated 2.5
billion ton-km of freight movement within Tanzania. The existing fleet
size is estimated to be about 14,000 trucks (over three-ton capacity), of
which 78Z is owned by the private sector, 42 by the 12 Regional Transport
Corporations (RETCOs) under the National Transport Corporation (NTC), and
182 by other public sector organizations (marketing boards, cooperatives,
etc.). The main feature until the mid-1980s was chronic shortage of
replacement vehicles. spare parts, fuel and tires.  Consequently, the



- 6 -
vehicles were aged with very low availability rates. Fleet replacement was
only about 42 p.a., inadequate under Tanzanian conditions, when over 15Z
would be optimal because of the poor road conditions. Freight movement by
road appears to have declined by at least 2? p.a. since the mid-1970e but,
as the overall level of economic activity had stagnated, this did not
result in persistent or widespread capacity shortage. Between 1986 and
1989, the situation changed dramatically with the revitalization of
economic activity under the ERP. Since the introduction of the "own-funds
imports program" and donor assistance for the import support program, the
sector is in the process of being revitalized to cater to the rapidly
expanding demand. The economy, however, continues to experience major
problems in meeting the rapidly growing agricultural production and the
economic activities in the rural areas. The Government, realizing the
distortional impact of tight administrative controls it had imposed on the
trucking industry, has eliminated essentially all barriers to market entry
and administratively-set tariffs. The trucking business is now on an
upswing, but will continue to require external assistance for procurement
of spare parts and replacement trucks.
1.12      Passenger transport is served both by private and parastatal bus
companies; but due to the increased intercity mobility and high population
growth rate in Dar es Salaam, as well as excessive regulation of public
transport, the delivery of services has been adversely affented. A Dar es
Salaam Passenger Transport Study was recently commissioned by RTC which is
responsible for Shirika la Usafiri Dar es Salaam, the city bus company, to
investigate the existing regulatory and institutional framework for
managing passenger transport in the Dar es Salaam area with a view to
improving delivery of services and efficiency of operations. The study is
currently in progress and its findings will be reviewed by IDA and
presented to a transport donors meeting to agree on future actions and
assistance for urban transport.
1.13      Railways.   In the railways subsector, the Tanzania Zambia
Railways Authority (TAZARA) operates a service that is principally
dedicated to Zambian transit traffic, although it is increasingly catering
to local traffic in the southern part of Tanzania. In recent years,
TAZARA's effective capacity has been sufficient to cater to the level of
traffic on offer. However, this level of traffic has been significantly
less than its installed capacity. TAZARA's ability to sustain or increase
its effective capacity is currently of some concern. Firstly, its
maintenance capacity is weak and the availability of locomotives is much
lower than should reasonably be expected. Secondly, wagon turn-around
times are unduly high for a very simple system with few intermediate
loading and unloading points. The effect of low locomotive availability
and high wagon turnaround times on TAZARA's effective capacity have so far
been offset by the relatively large numbers of such assets available to it.
Thirdly, cash generation is poor and thus TAZARA's capacity to be
financially self-sustaining is marginal. The effect of this on its
capacity has hitherto been masked oy a generous coverage of its maintenance
and assets costs by external donors and capital restructuring to ease its
debt service burden. Finally, the number of accidents on the system in
recent years has been high. Unless this rate is reduced, an increasingly
large proportion of its installed operating capacity would be eroded.



-7-
These concerns are currently being addressed by TAZARA in concert with its
leading donors.
1.14      The effective haul capacity of the Tanzania Railways Corporation
(TRC) -- which serves the central and northern parts of the country as well
as transit traffic from Burundi, Rwanda, Zaire and Uganda -- has declined
progressively from about 1.7 million tonnes of freight in the early 1970s
when it was managed as part of the East African Railways Corporation (EARC)
system to 0.9 million tonnes in 1989, despite considerable additions to its
asset base after its separation from the EARC in 1977. This decline has
proved particularly serious in the last three years with the pronounced
upsurge in domestic agricultural production and increased diversion of
transit traffic from other littoral countries to Tanzania. The decline in
traffic moved reflects (a) the poor availability of TRC's locomotive and
wagon assets as a result of limited access to spare parts, deficient
maintenance systems and skilled staff shortages; and (b) the poor
utilization of assets when made available caused largely by ineffective
management of operations and the unreliable condition of operational and
infrastructural assets. The chronic under-utilization of assets by TRC
coupled with regulatory restrictions on its ability to adjust its tariffs
in line with costs or to control the large labor component of its costs,
has led to a worsening financial performance and a massive erosion of its
financial position. As a commercial enterprise, TRC is currently both
financially bankrupt and insolvent. An Emergency Program (EP) for TRC was
launched in 1987 with financing from IDA (through the Sixth Highway Project
Credit and an advance from the IDA Project Preparation Facility) and donors
to stem and reverse the deterioration in TRC's performance. The program,
which is being implemented, has so far succeeded in stabilizing TRC's
performance. The proposed project will address the restructuring of TRC's
organization and operating practices and systems, the changes in the system
of Government regulation of TRC and the investment requirements that are
necessary to enable it to cater fully and profitably t.o the demand for
freight transport by rail. Details of the condition of TRC's assets, its
recent operating and financial performance and the restructuring strategy
to turn around its performance are given in Chapter 11L The investment
program in support of the restructuring strategy is outlined in Chapter III
ane the expected impact of the strategy on its financial performance is
detailed in Chapter IV.
1.15      Ports.   The port of Dar es Salaam is a major regional port
serving the neighboring landlocked countries of Zambia, Malawi, Burundi,
Rwanda, Uganda, and Zaire. The port throughput is the second largest on
the eastern coast of Africa after the port of Mombasa, and is the second
largest earner of foreign exchange in Tanzania after coffee. International
traffic constitutes nearly 602 of the total traffic throughput, and the
efficiency and cost effectiveness of port operations is of paramount
importance to its users. In order to modernize the port of Dar es Salaam,
a major program was started in 1984 under the Tanzania Port Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1536 - TA) to (a) expand the container handling capacity of
the port; (b) rehabilitate the general cargo berths; (c) improve equipment
maintenance; and (d) improve the management and skill levels of the
Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA). Since 1984, the traffic volume, which
had fallen continuously since the mid-1970s, began to recover at a rate of
nearly 7% p.a. During the same period, THA's operating efficiency also



showed gradual improvements. However, it has become evident in the past
two years that serious bottlenecks were beginning to develop.  First,
physically (and perhaps most seriously), the capacity of the newly
constructed container terminal is inadequate, with the demand already
exceeding technical storage capacity by over 40X. Second, institutionally,
inefficient customs procedures, inter alia, have contributed to the
excessive congestion in the container terminal through an unacceptably high
dwell time of containers in the port. Third, managerially, a shortage of
trained middle management and skilled workers continues to make management
and operation of the port difficult. Better use of technical assistance
and a more systematized management information system is required to
improve management of operations.  Fourth, operationally, equipment
maintenance continues to be a major problem, especially with regard to the
availability of dry cargo handling equipment. Fifth, financial management
could be further improved to expand the profitability of port operations.
And finally, a better incentive scheme is required to improve output. The
Port Modernization Project II (Credit 2095 - TA), approved in February
1990, is designed to address these issues.
1.16      Civil Aviation.   Given the substantial distances between major
population centers, aviation is an important means of transport in the
country. The available seat kilometers (ASK) on Air Tanzania Corporation
(ATC), the sole provider of scheduled domestic services, has grown at an
average of 141 p.a. from about 83 million in 1977 to about 363 million in
1987. The demand for ATC's services is high with an average passenger load
factor of 762 on all routes and 83? in the domestic market, often resulting
in a high turnaway rate for customers. Despite this favorable demand for
its services, ATC's financial performance has been characterized by growing
deficitst in 1986 its operating deficit amounted to TSh 583 million (about
US$17.8 million equivalent). ATC faces perennial problems in acquiring
minimum access to spare parts due to its inability to generate sufficient
foreign exchange to finance its own recurrent requirements; it also has
constraints on fleet utilization due to lack of proper facilities (e.g.
lack of night-landing facilities and poor maintenance of runways).
Furthermore, ATC is unable to train its staff properly due to lack of
foreign exchange for training abroad. Given these conditions, a systematic
assessment of ATC was carried out under a general civil aviation sector
study funded by the Irish Trust Fund, and an issues-oriented report *Air
Tanzania Corporation - Strategic Evaluation and Corporate Restructuring"
carried out by the Bank (Report No. 7618-TA - April 1989), recommended a
strategy for the sector both in terms of improvements to the financial
performance of ATC, improved cost recovery in the civil aviation sector in
general, and a least cost strategy to meet the unsatisfied demand in air
travel.
1.17      In order to rectify the situation and to implement the
recommendations contained in the restructuring study, ATC increased fares
by 100? to 150?; streamlined its operations through reorganization and
staff reduction; stopped operations on several uneconomic routes; and moved
out of one floor of its three-floor headquarter offices and leased it for
US$200,000 in foreign currency. However, further measures to strengthen
its financial position such as the sale and lease-back of its more highly
marketable aircraft to generate cash to pare down its debt and shore up its
working capital have not yet been adopted. With the dynamic changes in its



- 9 -
operating environment and a lack of continuing management actions to reduce
costs and improve revenue yields, ATC's profitability has continued to be
eroded, its financial position has deteriorated further and its viability
as an operating entity is increasingly questionable as further substantive
restructuring are deferred.
B. Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
1.18      The Bank Group has extended credits and loans to help finance
seven highway projects, one trucking project, one railways project and four
port projects, totaling US$490.0 million since Tanzania became a Bank Group
member in 1964. During the earlier years of lending, the projects
concentrated on financing of new construction and equipment. The focus
later shifted to strengthening of local institutions with provisions for
technical assistance and training, particularly for road maintenance and
road transportation. While experience with ne execution of physical
components has generally been acceptable, the objective of technical
assistance and training have been difficult to achieve mainly because of:
(a) delays in appointment of technical assistance staff; (b) cultural and
language adjustment problems of technical assistance staff; (c) lack of
effective administrative commitment by Government agencies; (d) lack of
suitable local counterparts; and (v) unrealistic targets. These lessons
have been confirmed by the eight Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR),
and have been highlighted in the comprehensive audit carried out by the
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department on all Tanzania projects from 1961
to 1987 (OED Report No. 8329, January, 1990) and have been incorporated in
the design of the Integrated Roads Project, the Ports II Project and this
proposed project.
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.19      The rationale for IDA involvement in the sector is a logical
extension of its role in assisting the Government to carry out its
macroeconomic reform. In the last two years, IDA's role has been deepened
to include reform of sectoral institutions and assistance in removing
sector-specific bottlenecks that have emerged as obstacles to the
sustainability of the recovery program. The comprehensive analysis of the
transport sector carried out by IDA in August 1987 formed the basis of the
December 1987 Transport Sector Donors' Conference held in Arusha. Since
then, IDA has taken the lead in working with the Government to bring
together a comprehensive rehabilitation and restructuring program for the
transport sector of Tanzania. Nearly 20 donor agencies have mobilized over
US$1.3 billion in their resources to join Tanzania in implementing the
ambitious sector programs.  Specifically, IDA contribution includes: (a) a
vision of how the transport sector can operate in the future if specific
actions are taken to adjust the institutional and policy framework under
which the transport sector is managed; (b) technical expertise which has
analyzed the complex issues stifling the existing system and recommended
options on how the system can be changed to improve the effectiveness of
the Government's effort; (c) supporting the changed attitude of Government
officials towards liberalization of transport operations, manifested in the
following policy actionss (i) decentralization of decision-making



- 10 -
authority; (ii) expansion of private sector involvement and encouragement
of parastatals to operate strictly on commercial merits; and (iii) less
cumbersome procurement and administrative practices; and (d) placing a
Principal Highway Engineer in the field for three years to assist in
implementing the changes.
1.20      In the railways subsector specifically, IDA's role has been to
assist Government and TRC to develop a coherent restructuring strategy to
effectively reverse the secular decline in its effective capacity and to
strengthen its capacity to be financially self-sustaining.  The donors
active in TRC, many of whom have provided substantial assistance to it
since its establishment, are conditioning their future assistance to TRC on
agreement between IDA and Government on the restructuring strategy reached
under this project.
II. THE RAILWAYS
A.   Background
2.01      The Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) is the successor to the
first railway line in East Africa which was built by German settlers in
1890 from Pangani in the vicinity of Tanga to a point 20 kms inland. By
1911, 350 kms of track linking Tanga to Moshi and providing access to the
rich agricultural areas in the north-eastern region of the country were
completed. The Central Line linking Dar es Salaam to the Lake Tanganyika
port of Kigoma was completed in 1915, whilst the line linking Mwanza to
Tabora to the Central Line was completed in 1928. Subsequent extensions to
the railway's geographic coverage were made between 1947 and 1963 and these
served to link Tanga and the north-eastern region to Dar es Salaam, a now-
exhausted lead mine in Mpanda in the southwest and the tobacco and coffee
growing areas around Kidatu in the southeast to the main network. The TRC
system now enjoys a strategic geographic location traversing regions
estimated to account for about 40? of Tanzania's agricultural output and
most of the country's export crops and links all major urban centers in the
northern half and the central part of the country. The system provides one
of the major access routes to coastal seaports for the international trade
of northern-eastern Zaire, Burundi and Rwanda and Uganda. This strategic
location is reinforced by the distribution of economic activity in Tanzania
and the relatively underdeveloped and deteriorated nature of the roads
network.
2.02      In tenms of its organization, the railway system in Tanzania
together with the national ports services were merged with Kenya and Uganda
Railways and Harbours in 1948 to form the East Africa Railways and Harbours
Administration (EARH). In 1967, the East Africa Railways Corporation
(EARC) was formed following the establishment of the East Africa Community
(EAC) to operate the railways and allied activities of the EARH. In 1977,
following the dissolution of the EAC, Tanzania Railways Corporation was
incorporated to operate the Tanzania segment of the defunct EARC
activities.



- 11 -
B.   Regulation
2.03      TRC's operations are governed by the Tanzania Railways
Corporation Act, 1977, which sets out in detail its objectives and the
relative powers of the Minister responsible for it (currently, the Minister
of Communications and Transport (MCT)), its board and its Director General.
Under the Act, TRC is charged with providing a coordinated and integrated
system of transport services by road, rail and inland waterways on
commercial principles. Specifically, in the discharge of its service
obligations, TRC is required to (i) be sufficiently cash generative to be
operationally self-sustaining as well as earn a rate of return, as
determined from time to time by the minister, on its assets as periodically
revalued ; (ii) provide all reasonable facilities for the carriage of
passengers and goods; (iii) to give no person or body undue preference in
the provision of transport services.
2.04      However, the Act has not been and cannot be, on its own an
effective basis for ensuring that TRC operates on a commercial basis for
four main reasons. Firstly, no specific rate of return has ever been
established for TRC by past ministers and there has been no coherent view
in Government or TRC of the output potential of TRC. There has thus been
no performance objectives for TRC, either in physical or financial terms
and no corresponding pressure on it to utilize its assets profitably.
Secondly, even if a coherent set of performance objectives were set for
TRC, it is unlikely that these could be achieved by it because of the
limited and ambiguous managerial powers granted to its Board and management
under the Act. The Act provides that TRC has minor powers over its tariff
level and structure, its organizational structure and manpower levels.
Major powers over its prices and cost structure are granted in the Act to
the minister of MCT. What constitutes major or minor powers has never been
defined. This ambiguity has served to narrow or eliminate the scope for
autonomous management actions within TRC. Thirdly, although the Act, by
specifically stipulating that no service shall be provided at a price less
than its cost of provision, provides for TRC's services to '.; allocated to
customers based on their ability to pay full cost-recovery tarif.s,
restrictions on tariff increases arising from ministerial controls on
tariffs have progressively eroded the role of tariffs in determining
service allocation. As TRC's capacity has declined relative to traffic on
offer, the role of Government in dictating priorities for movement,
irrespective of their commercial implications for TRC, has enlarged.
Finally, although the Act provides for the appointment of a Board to guide
TRC's operations, the Board is subject to the same lack of goals and
performance expectations and the same restrictions on its powers as is the
management of TRC. In the absence of a clear mandate, successive TRC
Boards have been ineffectual in ensuring an acceptable degree of financial
or operating performance by TRC. The system of regulation embodied in the
Act, which provides little incentive for TRC management to be efficient,
has had a pervasive negative impact on all aspects of TRC's operations.



- 12 -
C.   Organization, Management and Staffing
(i) Organization and Management
2.05      TRC is organized mainly on functional lines with staff in four
operating regions reporting to functional heads at headquarters in Dar es
Salaam. Responsibility for coordination of the various railways operations
functions as well as the marine and road services operations is vested in
the Assistant Director General (ADG) for Operations who reports to the DG.
A chief financial officer, also reporting to the DG, is responsible for
accounting and treasury functions which are centralized at headquarters.
Two other ADGs -- the ADG for Corporate Planning and Marketing and the ADG
(Services) who is responsible for the hotels and catering operations,
manpower development and supplies -- report to the DG.
2.06      The current organizational structure of TRC was inherited from
the EARC which was similarly organized at the three respective national
levels but with substantial accounting and technical resources at
headquarters in Nairobi. With the breakup of the EARC and the limited
experienced staff of Tanzanian origin, it proved pragmatic to maintain a
known structure with highly centralized management.  The existing structure
is however, no longer adequate for the effective commercial operations of
TRC. Although the span of control of the DG is acceptable, that of the ADG
(Operations) is too extensive. A disproportionate amount of the
incumbent's time is preoccupied with resolving day to day crises arising in
the different departments under his brief rather than on coordination and
planning. This division of his time frequently leads to the paralysis of
decision-making on the eruption of departmental crises. The emphasis on
functional specializations together with the highly centralized reporting
structure inhibits middle management responsible for operations in the
regions from developing a corporate view of its activities as well as from
taking a large measure of responsibility for day-to-day operations.   This
has the effect of confining corporate concerns for the railways financial
and service objectives to the highest levels of the organizational
hierarchy. Finally, the performance of the non-railways activities is
adversely affected by their location in the existing organizational
structure. The roads and hotel and catering services are considered an
extension of the railways services whereas in reality they perform few
services that are complementary to the railways' activities. These
services enjoy only the limited attention of senior management which is
focussed on the core railways operations. Management of the services
exercise no control over the key variables for commercial success --
pricing, costs, investments and assets disposal -- and long lines of
communications between the services and headquarters senior management
leads to considerable delays in decision making on even basic operational
issues, adversely affecting the performance of the services. The marine
services, although linked to the railways service through its wagon ferry
operations operates an extensive passenger service as well as cargo
operations around the lakes that are not tied to the railways. These non-
railways linked activities are dominant in terms of assets requirements and
costs. The marine service, like the other non-railways services, suffers
from lack of autonomy in pricing and cost control as well as long lines of
communications which inhibits quick decision-making. In addition, TRC's
railways oriented senior management which has little understanding of the



- 13 -
competitive features of shipping operations has been unable to provide the
detailed operational guidance to the service that would justify the
existing day-to-day reporting relationship of the service to headquarters.
(ii) Staffing
2.07      Staff establishment levels for TRC  and TRC's own assessment of
the scope for staff reductions are shown in Annex 2-1. The current
authorized staff establishment is 17,476. The actual staffing level as at
December 1989 was 17,098 of which 2,127 were casuals. By any criteria, TRC
is grossly overmanned. Staff productivity at 40,000 net tonne-km (ntkm)
per employee or about 85,000 traffic units per employee is amongst the
lowest of any railways system in the world and compares to over 300,000
ntkm per employee in the National Railways of Zimbabwe where staff numbers
are also considered excessive. The establishment levels which set the
ceiling on staff levels are essentially figures drawn from the
establishment structure of the defunct EARC and do not reflect the
fundamental change in the technology of operations since the middle 19709
on the appropriate level and skills-mix of staff -- in particular, the
changeover from steam . diesel operations and the mechanization of track
operations which call for much less labor-intensive operations. There is,
as a result, significant surpluses of unskilled and semi-skilled staff. At
the same time, TRC has been experiencing significant difficulties in
recruiting skilled and managerial staff because of its uncompetitive wage
structure. TRC's wages for skilled staff are about 702 of those for
comparable workers in other parastatal and, adjusted for the monetary value
of benefits, are only about 35X of those for comparable workers on TAZARA.
Besides its effect on TRC's ability to recruit skilled staff, the low wage
structure is a serious and recognized cause of disciplinary problems in TRC
with its large, widely dispersed and low paid labor force having a strong
incentive to take secondary jobs on the corporation's time or misuse
corporate resources to supplement their income. Similarly, the
administration of such a large, lowly paid work force in a highly
centralized organization consumes a substantial proportion of senior
management time.
2.08      In general, TRC's senior and middle management, although thin,
is suitably qualified and experienced in their functional areas. Their
effectiveness has, however, been circumscribed by a number of factors of
which the most important are the limited delegation of authority and the
concentration of responsibility for cross-functional coordination at the
highest levels of the organization, limited facilities for and the
irrelevance of general management training and the poor structure and
levels of remuneration which limits the incentive for promotion and the
dedication to corporate duties. In the supervisory and skilled grades, the
effectiveness of the TRC work force is seriously limited by the lack of
training facilities for skills upgrading and the poor standard of living of
staff.



- 14 -
D.   Physical Assets and Resources
(ii) Track
2.09      TRC operates a total of 2,580 km of track of which 2,259 km are
part of the mainline network and 321 km are branch lines. About 80 percent
of the TRC system i8 on easy ruling grades of IU. The balance of the
system is on steeper ruling grades of between 1.8Z and 2.2Z, mostly
confined to the sections Dar es Salaam - Morogoro, Makutupora - Aghodi and
Tanga - Buiko sections. There are more than 1800 curves on the mainline of
which about 56X are of radii of 200 to 500 meters. The steep grades and
sharp curves limit the tonnage that can be carried over the system with the
couplers currently in use. Rails of 45 to 80 lb/yard are in use with the
future standard being fixed at 80 lb/yard. Sleepers are of steel except at
turnouts, bridges and specific places needing wooden sleepers. Joints are
only now being welded and most of the bolted joints are permanently bent
down. Several locations on the track suffer from repeated flooding. There
are a total of 391 bridges on the system. Even though the bridges are well
maintained, a number of these have speed and axle load restrictions and as
a result need strengthening. Bridge strengthening programs were initiated
in 1983 and, to date, 32 bridges have been completed. Heavy equipment
available for p4rmanent way maintenance comprises 4 tamping machines, 4
ballast regulators, 1 track relaying machine, 2 front-end loaders, 1 track
recorder trolley, 1 flash butt welding plant at Tabora and about 40 heavy
and light inspection trolleys. About 5O of the equipment is not in
operating condition due to non-availability of spare parts and old designs
for which spare parts are not available any more.
2.10      The permanent way on TRC has suffered from a large amount of
deferred maintenance. A very high percentage of the track has nil to
inadequate ballast cushion whilst rails, sleepers and fastenings on around
400 to 500 km of track need replacement. The lack of adequate maintenance
has resulted in speed restrictions being imposed on many sections,
sometimes to a crippling level of 10 km/hour. Poor maintenarce of curve
geometry has resulted in an increase in the incidence of derailments.   A
recent analysis shows that about 28S of the derailments in the last 3 years
could be attributed to track defects. About 120 kms of track length in
different sections has speed restrictions of less than 20 km/hour and
unless improved another 400 km will need speed restrictions of 30 km/hour
or less within the next 3 years (Annex 2-2).
(iii) Signalling and Telecoanunications:
2.11      The existing signalling system on TRC is of the simple type with
either one or two aspect semaphore for entry to each station from either
end. Points and crossings are not interlocked with the signals, except at
two stations, i.e. Dar es Salaam (Ilala) and at Maruazi Junction. Single
line block token instruments are used.  The Dar es Salaam - Tabora section
is being upgraded to a sophisticated system with solar battery elements,
electric point machines, color light approach, home and station signals and
centrally controlled station panel operation of points. This project is
expected to be completed by 1992. The capacity and capabilities of such a
system in operation would exceed presently foreseeable needs of TRC. There



- 1S -
is no need for upgr iing the system on sections not covered under this
ongoing work.
2.12      TRC currently has 2,547 km of open-wire telecomunication lines,
train control and telephone equipment at 116 stations, 9 telephone
exchanges, 10 teleprinter links and 13 radio-linked control offices and
stations covering the system outside of the Kigoma to Tabora section. This
latter section has relatively new telecommunJcations financed with'
assistance from Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany. The open-
wire system, now formally the property of the Tanzania Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (TPTC), needs to be taken over by TRC as the
TPTC has installed a micro-wave system linking the main centers of the
country and has no commercial interest in maintaining a system dedicated to
TRC operations. The condition of the overhead open wire lines is poor, and
the lines and much of the associated equipment needs rehabilitation. There
is also the incidence of thefts of wires in densely populated areas.
Rehabilitation of the Dar es Salaam-Tabora-Hwanza open-wire lines and
associated equipment has recently commenced with financing from the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and is expected to be
completed in 1993.  The Tabora-Kigoma telecommunication system consists of
611 km of aerial cable, telephones at 17 stations as well as portable
units, two telephone exchanges, one 12 channel multiplex carrier system and
one teleprinter link. The system, being new, is in excellent condition.
(iv) Motive Power
2.13      The motive power fleet of TRC comprises 81 main line and 29
shunting diesel locomotives. The main line locomotives are of five
different designs and capacities, the hauling capacity of the different
loc'nmotive types ranging from 500 to 1250 tonnes or 10 to 25 loaded
standard freight wagons. The shunting locomotives are of three different
designs and capacities. The main technical characteristics, the names of
the locomotive suppliers and the hauling capacities are indicated in Annex
2-3. Twenty-one (21) main line and 9 shunting locomotives, out of the
entire locomotive fleet, operate with hydraulic transmission and the rest
with electric transmission. The Class 87 locomotives are the oldest, being
24 years old.
2.14      Out of 110 locomotives on TRC's books (as of July 1990), 39 were
awaiting either rehabilitation or rebuilding and only 71 locomotives, i.e.,
652 of the total locomotive fleet were serviceable. Except for ten
locomotives of Class 73, which suffered from technical problems from the
date of supply and six locomotives damaged during accidents, all the other
unserviceable locomotives have had to be set aside as a result of the
locomotives having suffered serious deteriorat!on due to deferred and
inadequate maintenance. Due to the same reason, the hauling capacity of all
classes of locomotives has been reduced by 10  to 15?.   Taken together,
the capacity of the locomotive fleet has suffered an erosion of about 40?
due to deferred and inadequate maintenance. The loss of capacity on bot'h
accounts for each class of locomotive is indicated in Annex 2-4.   The
recent trend of locomotive availability is shown in the table below.



- 16 _
TRC - Locomotive Availability
(Z of total fleet)
Class                1987       1988      1989       1990 a/
64                    56         49        52         39
72                    34          0         0          0
73                    23        24         25         27
87                     8         14        40         46
88                    59         57        56         52
36                    22        35         38         31
37                    94        93         93         96
35                     6         4         10        48
a/ first quarter of year
Sources TRC
(v) Wagon Stock
2.15      TRC currently possesses a total of about 3,300 wagons of all
designs including tank cars. Many of these wagons are reaching the end of
their accounting life, are of obsolete and inefficient designs and in poor
condition and would need to be progressively scrapped. The effective wagon
fleet, at the end of 1992 when all existing defective wagons are expected
to have been scrapped, would consist of about 2,200 wagons. A considerable
number of wagons have a low payload capacity. Even the most recently
acquired wagons on TRC, except for tank wagons with a maximum specified
payload of 36 tonnes, are not designed to fully exploit the permissible
axle loads on TRC's track. The different wagon designs available on TRC,
their capacity, tare weight, current holding and expected holding after
scrapping are given in Annex 2-5.
2.16      The current availability of wagons, as a percentage of wagons
shown in the books of TRC (including wagons slated for scrapping but
awaiting formal approval for disposal) is around 70X. Wagon availability
will show a small improvement after the scrapping of about 500 wagons is
formalized and these wagons are removed from the fleet. However, until
this scrapping is undertaken, the defective wagons, by occupying
operational lines in the yards, will contribute to the slowing down of
switching operations unless they are removed to non-operational yards. As
part of the preparations for this project, TRC embarked on a crash program
to clear operational lines in the main terminal yards in Dar es Salaam of
defective wagons. Progress on this program has been reasonably
satisfactory (paras 2.27 and 2.29). Due to a substantial backlog of
maintenance and continuation of a large number of wagons with plain
bearings, the breakdown rate of the wagons is also very high and is one of
the major causes of poor wagon availability.



- 17 -
(vi) Passenger Coaches
2.17      TRC has a fleet of 127 passenger coaches, of which 100 are
serviceable. The average age of the fleet is about 10 years. The fleet is
in a very run-down condition with barely 75 in service. The coaches are
scheduled for general repairs in the main workshops every two and a half
years and for light repairs in the depot on a bi-annual basis. However,
over 402 of the rleet is overdue for general repairs, in some instances for
as long as nine years. This level of deferred maintenance coupled with the
extensive vandalization of coaches is the main reason for the rapid
deterioration of the essentially young coaching stock.
E.   Operations
2.18      TRC operations are characterized by a number of factors: (a)
long queues for wagons by customers; (b) long detention of wagons at
terminal yards; (c) high running times; (d) suboptimal trains formation;
and (e) low wagon productivity. Detailed monitoring of performance and the
related management and control of operations is largely absent. As a
direct result, very scanty operational data is routinely collected at TRC.
Operational performance indicators like average wagon load, empty to loaded
running ratio, gross tonne-km (gtka) to ntkm ratio, average haul for
different commodities, average train loads for different classes of
locomotives, wagon km per wagon day, and wagon turnaround times for
different services cannot be accurately established. The current status of
operational performance has thus been derived through the analysis of the
data as available, on-the-spot observations and detailed discussions with
TIC management.
2.19      Queues for Wagons: hgainst an average daily loading of about 100
wagons, there is always a pendIng demand for 1,000 wagons. Even thougb
part of the demand appears te bW inflated and the waiting list in part
represents a time lag in meeting the demand and the effects of low tariffs
(para 4.04 (iii)), the waiting list does indicate the current limit to
TIC's capacity to carry all the ):raffic on offer.  The long waiting list is
also affecting the rational and aptimal allocation of wagons to the users.
Terminal Yard Detentions: About '900 wagons, 20Z of the total inventory of
wagons on TRC, are due to be scra*ped during 1991 and currently the wagons
have been sot aside on different operating rail lines within various yards,
rendering a major percentage of tuese lines ineffective for switching
operations. As a result, switching operations take a long time and the
train formations are erratic requiring reformation through additional
shunting enroute. Also, the time permitted to various users for
loading/unloading operations is inordinately high. Eve- so, the users are
taking an even longer time, sometimes 4-5 days, mainly due to low demurrage
charges. In effect, rail users find it cheaper to use wagons for storage
rather than develop additional warehousing space. This has led to a
considerable increase in the turnaround of wagons. Finally, inadequate
availability of shunting locomotives and their poor condition is also
affecting the shunting operations and timely placement and withdrawal of
wagons for loading and unloading, resulting in heavy detentions to wagons.
Suboitimal Train Formation: Train formations are usually subuptimal for a
number of reasons: (a) the constraints on operations mentioned abovel (b)



- 18 -
the almost total absence of an operations plan; and (c) the wide difference
in the hauling capacity of the various classes of locomotives used for
freight traffic and the existence of steep gradients in certain sections.
Despite the availability of relatively high volumes of traffic in cotton,
tobacco, coffee, metals and general cargo between specific origins and
destinations, the number of through trains run between these points is very
small and most of the traffic tends to move through slow pick-up type of
trains or through inadequately marshalled trains. The average trailing
loads are also far short of the locomotive hauling capacity. High Running
Time:   Train speeds have been restricted over a wide range of the track
length due to the poor condition of the track. Owing to crew change and
fueling facilities being in depots rather than in the yards, almost all the
trains suffer an additional detention of about one hour or more at every
intermediate yard. Train examination patterns and insistence on train
examination at every yard add to the detentions. Low Wagon Productivity:
Average wagon payload has been estimated at about 25 tonnes as against the
design payload of the majority of wagons on TRC of 40 tonnes. Though part
of the reason for the low average lies in the density of some of the
commodities like cotton and tobacco being low, the major responsible
factors are the low tariffs, absence of weighment facilities and lack of
appreciation of the impact of inefficient loading of wagons. The use of
wrong types of wagons for different commodities and higher than required
proportion of empty running of wagons are other factors contributing to low
productivity of operations.
F. Operations Information System
2.20      The system for the collection, analysis and dissemination of
traffic operations data is highly deficient. Data on train operations and
engine performance are not systematically collected, are not analyzed on a
systematic basis on lines relevant to decision-making and are produced in
an incomplete form with substantial time lags. Traffic data is collatc;
with substantial time lags, classified in a form that has little analytical
utility and is invariably highly inconsistent with accounting data. This
deficiency in traffic operations information systems reinforces the ad hoc
system of working. More fundamentally, however, any traffic information
system will need to be reinforced by organizational incentives for their
use to be effective. With respect to the maintenance planning and
management systems, CIDA and the Dan:ish International Development Agency
(DANIDA) have provided considerable assistance to TRC in developing
planning, monitoring and control systems through their respective programs
of assistance to the mechanical engineering workshops. These systems have
tended to be project-specific, with little effort at institutional transfer
to TRC. They need to be generalized and standardized for use across all
TIC programs and facilities. Under the EP, the Overseas Development Agency
of the United Kingdom (ODA) is providing assistance to TRC to strengthen
its central procurement and supplies management system and to standardize
materials management systems throughout the organization. The
effectiveness of this program has been handicapped by lack of adequate
numbers of qualified counterparts for the expatriate team and the highly
fragmented nature of procurement activities, which by removing most
elements of the procurement cycle from TRC responsibility to that of the



- 19 v
donors financing specific programs undermines the rationale for TRC to
maintain effective systems.
2.21      The bulk of data processing in TRC is undertaken on an ICL ME29
mainframe computer with 1 megabyte (mb) of memnry which is upgradeable to 4
mb. This system is about sever years old and, although it has adequate
capacity to meet TRC's medium-term processing requirements, is subject to
an increasing rate of failures. Spare parts and maintenance support for
this system, which is no longer manufactured, are difficult to obtain. The
system is supported by nine terminals for data entry and two obsolete line-
printers that are prone to frequent failures. Data processing is on a
batch basis with a heavy degree of reliance on manual preparation of data
for entry, data checking and verification. All computerized data
processing is concentrated at headquarters with little scope for any
distribution of such tasks to the regions due to the poor state of
communications facilities within the railways and the country. Information
systems currently computerized include the general ledger, payroll, revenue
accounting, fixed assets, locomotives statistics, and stores accounting. A
wagon control system has recently been completed and is under trial.
G.   Financial Performance
2.22      TRC's overall financial performance since its establishment has
been very poor. Details of its historic financial performance are shown in
the table below. Its losses since 1979 have totalled a massive TSh 4.2
billion, excluding the cost of much of the maintenance expenditure for its
locomotive fleet which were covered by donor grants and not provided for in
its accounts. Its cumulative cash flow from operations amounted to TSh 4.4
billion over the period. Net of investments in working capital to support
operations, cumulative cash generation amounted to TSh 3.3 billion over the
period. However, this net cash generation from operations has been
insufficient to cover its debt service obligations, the interest component
of which amounted to TSh 4.0 billion. TRC has been able to finance only a
fraction of its debt service obligations and built up arrears of interest
payments of TSh 2.2 billion over the period whilst not effectively making
any principal repayments on its debt other than to its multilateral
lenders. As of December 31, 1990, arrears of debt service amounted to
about TSh 4.6 billion. With its worsening profitability and poor cash
generation, TRC's financial position deteriorated substantially between
1979 and 1986 with debt as a proportion of its total capital employed
increasing from 36Z to 109X. To ease its interest burden and reduce its
relative indebtedness, Government, in 1986, capitalised about TSh 5.0
billion of its debt. However, the effect of this was transient. By 1989,
TRC's interest obligations were again greater than its cash generation from
operations. TRC's poor profitability and cash generation has had a number
of adverse implications for its operations. In particular, to curtail
expenditures, TRC has had to defer a significant amount of maintenance,
particularly of its track infrastructure, which has not benefitted from
external donor financing and much of which could have been funded out of
local resources. This deferral of maintenance has led to progressive
deterioration in the condition of its track and a vicious cycle of lower
capacity, lower traffic and lower revenues. Due to its limited cash
generation, TRC has been unable to implement even the basic incentives



- 20 -
schemes permissible under the country's wages policies, handicapping its
capacity to retain or recruit skilled staff and its ability to effectively
manage the productivity of such staff.
TRC: Historic Financial Performance a/
(TSh million)
1979
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Operating Income                 111    257    392    768    661    2183
(excl. depreciation)
Operating Working Capital         (81)  (312)  (330)   604    345   (1274)
Cash Flow from Operations         30    (55)    62   1372   1006        909
Interest obligations             (423)  (138)  (1240) (452)  (684)   (1065)
(393)  (193)  (1178)  920    322        (156)
Capital Expenditure            (1804)  (379)   (310) (350)  (282)    (884)
Total Financing
Requirement                  (2197)  (572)  (1488)  370        40    (1040)
===   =  r 
Net Income                       (832)   (37)  (1775) (2152) (676)    (351)
2.23      The main sources of TRC's poor financial performance have been
(i) the underutilization of its capacity; and (ii) the inflexibility of the
tariff regime. Capacity utilization: The inherent capacity of TRC has
been much greater than actual traffic carried due to poor asset
availability and utilization. This has resulted in low contribution
margins per ton-km of freight and per passenger-km carried relative to the
high fixed cost of operations (mostly labor costs) and debt-service
obligations (mostly related to the poor performing operational units).
Inflexible tariff regime: cumulative tariff increases for TRC between 1979
and 1989 have averaged about 43Z p.a. and have been in line with the
general level of domestic inflation. However, these increases have been
much less than compensatory for TRC's unit cost increases which are much
more related to movements in the exchange rate. Hoveover, the timing of
tariff approvals has been poor with significant lags in awards (e.g. a gap
of 26 months between tariff increases in 1981 and 1984, 22 months between
1984 and 1986 and 15 months between 1989 and 1990). In addition to these
'actors, TRC's management of its working capital has been poor with both
lax collection practices and inadequate management of its inventory,
leading to large increases in its cash needs to finance working capital.



- 21 -
H.   Restructuring Strategy
(i) Past Experience and the Restructuring Strategy
2.24      The experience gained in attempting to turnaround TRC's
performance under the EP has provided a number of valuable lessons of
considerable relevance to the design of the proposed project. The EP was
based on a ten-point action plan covering (a) institutional measures and
changes to bolster TRC's cash-generating capacity; (b) organizational
measures to facilitate the effective commercial management of operating
activities; (c) operational measures to facilitate better utilization of
operating assets; and (d) rehabilitation activities to improve the
condition and availability of key operational and infrastructural assets.
The success of these measures in improving and sustaining the operating and
financial performance of TRC was mixed. In particular, the measures to be
effected by Government depended for their effectiveness on its commitment
to seeing that TRC was managed commercially whilst those intended to
strengthen TRC's capacity to manage its resources efficiently relied on
strong managerial initiatives from TRC in designing and implementing
programs of actions. Government commitment to a commercial objective for
TRC was weak. No clear-and explicit financial and operational objectives
were set TRC by Government or proposed under the program. There was no
pressure for TRC to perform effectively. There was little supporting
Government action to stem any deterioration in TRC's performance. Few
proposals for tariff increases were approved by Government beyond the
initial action agreed and implemented at the start of the program. Three
years into the program, TRC had moved from being cash-generative to being
insolvent as a result of huge, uncompensated inflationary increases in its
costs. Internally, TRC lacked the leadership or internal culture of
accountability for performance to manage the program of action effectively.
This resulted in considerable inertia in planning and implementing actions
to improve its operating efficiency. The rehabilitation objectives of the
program, in the narrow sense of restoring classes of assets to service,
were achieved - albeit, with about a 50Z time lag - largely as a result of
the close participation of a large amount of external support. TRC as an
institution continued to be weak. There has been no improvement in its
effective capacity since the start of the EP. A detailed review of the
implementation of the EP is attached as Annex 2-11. The experience under
the EP is similar to the experience of the Bark in other railways projects
in the region. In the two projects for which PCRs and PPARs have been
recently completed (Zambia Third Railways Project (Loan 1790-ZA/Credit
0973-ZA): PPAR No. 7975, June 1989; Zimbabwe - Transport Rehabilitation
Imports Program (Loan 1994-ZIM): PPAR No. 8619, Hay 1990) , significant
additions were made to the railways assets through either the
rehabilitation of existing assets or new inv%   ints.  However, in both
cases the effective utilization of assets decli.-d considerably, offsetting
the effect of the projects on the railways effective capacity. In both
cases, the railways effective capacity was maintained subsequently at the
pre-project level only through substantial hires of locomotives and wagons.
The conclusion of the PPARs were that this effect could have been avoided
or minimized if greater attention was paid to putting effective pressures
on the management of the railways to improve the utilization and
availability of assets and supporting such efforts under the project.
Increasing the railways physical capacity on its own without regard to the



- 22 -
efficiency of use of existing available assets only served to undermine the
achievement of improvements in operating efficiency and paradoxically led
to a lower level of performance and the need for a greater amount of assets
to perform the same level of service as before the project.
2.25      The lessons of the EP for any meaningful strategy to turnaround
TRC's performance are as follows: Firstly, the legal framework governing
TRC's operations needs to provide TRC with clear overall objectives and
unambiguous powers to achieve these objectives. Without this, the
management and Board of TRC cannot be held accountable for the effective
and efficient use of the assets under their tutelage. Secondly, TRC's
managers must be held accountable for specific efficiency objectives with
respect to the assets under their control. The past lack of any
performance expectation of the corporation has led to both a corresponding
absence of managerial accountability for performance and little incentive
or pressure for TRC managers to use procedures or systems that will
optimize the use of the system's assets. Currently the availability and
use of assets is well below its potential even though significant
improvements can be effected within the competency of the existing managers
and with the resources under their control. Thirdly, the internal
organization of TRC needs to be restructured to support a new performance
orientation. Fourthly, the backlog of deferred maintenance evident in all
classes of railways assets must be made good to prevent their total loss or
avoid their significantly more expensive replacement; any new investments
must be consistent with the objectives of efficiency improvement measures
and not lead to a dilution of the pressure on TRC to perform effectively.
These actions must be implemented as an integrated package. In accordance
with this strategy, agreement was reached with Government and TRC on a
number of specific actions detailed below.
(ii) Restructuring Actions
2.26      Regulatory Frameworks To clarify the powers of TRC under the TRC
Act, the Minister of Communications and Transport will issue a Ministerial
Directive reiterating the service and financial objectives set TRC under
the Railways Act, outlining the specific powers to be enjoyed by TRC with
respect to its organization structure, manpower complement, tariffs and
fares and defining Government's obligation to redress TRC for any losses
incurred as a result of investing in or providing services at the directive
of Government. The Directive will also instruct the Principal Secretary of
MCT to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) or performance
contract with TRC to operationalise the Ministerial Directive by detailing
the respective powers and obligations of Government and TRC under the
Directive and the TRC Act and the reporting arrangements to ensure the
effective working of the regulatory system. The Directive and MoU will set
TRC the primary objective of generating, through efficient and commercial
operations, a rate of return on its capital employed sufficient to enable
it to be financially self-sustaining. To enable it to achieve this
objective, the Directive and MOU will grant TRC the following powerst (i)
to adjust its tariffs with such frequency and magnitude as it considers
necessary to achieve the rate of return objective, without reference to
Government; (ii) not to provide any service below its full cost of
provision; (iii) to make investments it considers appropriate subject only
to an overall debt-to-equity limitation and submission of economic and



- 23 -
financial justification to MCT for any investment in excess of US$ 2
million equivalent; (iv) to restructure its internal organization as it
considers to be commercially appropriate without reference to Government,
except if this involves creation of new non-railways entities or
amalgamation with an unrelated entity; (v) to reduce its staff by any
amount it considers appropriate to achieve its efficiency and commercial
objectives, without reference to Government; and (vi) pay salaries, bonuses
and incentives payments as it considers commercially prudent, without
reference to Government. Under the MOU, TRC is obligated to achieve or
implement the following monitorable performance objectives and measures:
(a) a rate of return on its capital employed of not less than 152 in 1992,
1993 and 1994 and not less than 20% thereafter, subject to revision of
these rates after the revaluation of TRC's assets under the project; (b)
the operational performance targets agreed with Government and IDA as
feasible with the proposed restructuring of working systems and practices
and management to be implemented under the project; (c) implement a revised
organizational structure consistent with that agreed with IDA as conducive
to effective management of its core railways activity under currently
prevailing conditions; (d) implement reductions in its manpower in line
with its preliminary assessment of its level of overstaffing and subject to
revisions to be made after ongoing studies assessing the scope for further
manpower reductions are completed. A Ministerial Directive was issued on
May 23, 1991 and an MOU was executed on May 24, 1991. The Ministerial
Directive and MOU are shown at Annex 2-6. In advance of the issue of the
Ministerial Directive and the execution of the MOU, Government in March
1991 approved for immediate implementation tariff increases of 70X for
freight and first class passenger traffic and 40? for second class and
economy passenger traffic as well as the package of restructuring measures
proposed under the project. The restructured regulatory system for TRC
represents the furthest that Government has gone, to date, in spelling out
a clear commercial mandate for any of its parastatals and the first time
that it has entered into an explicit performance contract with any such
enterprise.
2.27      A critical ingredient for the translation of the freedoms and
obligation of the Directive and MoU into operational programs is the
presence of a commercially oriented Board of Directors. The existing TRC
Board's term of office expired in December, 1990 and the launch of a new
Government strategy to turnaround TRC presents an ideal opportunity to
select a Board to guide management's operations in a new climate of
focussed commercial orientation. Accordingly, during negotiations,
agreement was reached with (:overnment that the appointment to office of the
new Board would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness (para 6.02 (i)).
2.28      Efficiency Objectives: During appraisal, agreement was reached
with Government and TRC that TRC would implement an Operations Improvement
Plan (OIP) in three phases. Phase 1 would comprise actions within the
technical competency and resources of TRC to (i) eliminate congestion in
the yards arising from the accumulation of sick and defective wagons; (ii)
improve wagon availability by restoring to service sick wagons consistently
with the current availability of work gangs and materials; (iii) improve
availability of locomotives consistent with maintenance plans based on
currently available spare parts, labor and agreed levels of labor
productivity; (iii) improve the utilization of operating assets by reducing



- 24 -
the detention of trains en-route to their destinations, the progressive
introduction of through-trains, reduction in switching efforts and
associated delays by encouraging customer acceptance of larger rakes of
wagons.
2.29      Phase 2 would comprise actions to consolidate the gains in
improvement under phase 1 and would be based on action plans to be prepared
during the implementation of phase 1. In particular, agreement was reached
with TRC that it would commission studies to review maintenance and train
operations practices and recommend specific changes and improvements in
methods and organization of work to be incorporated into action plans. An
action plan with respect to train operations has already been substantially
completed by TRC staff based on explicit analysis of traffic patterns and
the best way of serving such traffic to achieve optimm utilization of
locomotives and rolling stock. Consultants have already been selected by
TRC to undertake audits of its maintenance practices as the basis for
formulating action plans to further improve the quality of track works and
the availability and reliability of its fleet of locomotives and wagons.
Phase 2 would be implemented over a period of about one year, starting from
January, 1991 with the target completion of Phase 1.
2.30      Phase 3 would comprise actions to be supported under the project
and would focus on improvements in the planning and control of maintenance
activities. The actions under phase 3 are dependent on improvements in the
condition of TRC's assets which can only be effected with the substantial
assistance planned under the proposed project. Details of the actions to
be undertaken under phase 1 and the agreed performance targets for the OIP
as a whole are detailed in Annex 2-7. With achievement of the OIP targets,
TRC would be able to carry about 1.8 million tonnes of traffic, double its
current effective capacity, without any new infusion of assets (Annex 2-
2.31      Most of the efficiency objectives of Phase 1 of the OIP have
been achieved satisfactorily. Availability of the locomotive fleet,
adjusted for locomotives damaged in accidents and consequently rendered
unavailable, improved as envisaged; the reliability of the locomotive fleet
was generally better than envisaged under the plan. The overall rate of
utilization of locomotives was about 15? less than the agreed target;
however, the target was based on five locomotives being assigned to low
productivity departmental service, As the number of available locomotives
increased, most of incremental units were assigned to departmental rather
than revenue-generating services depressing overall utilization. By
corollary, the effective utilization of locomotives in revenue service was
significantly better than targeted. The rate of removal of defective
wagons from operational lines in the major yards (and the total numbers
removed) was substantially greater in the six month period of the OIP than
in the previous three years. However, due to unanticipated problems of
shortages of key inputs and equipment, only 60Z of the target removals was
achieved. The ability of TRC to effectively implement Phase 2 of the OIP
and further improve on the performance of Phase 1 would depend critically
on the identification of existing inefficient or ineffective maintenance
and operating practices, feasible means to address them and concrete action
plans to implement such measures. Completion of action plans satisfactory
to IDA and satisfactory progress in the implementation of the action plans



- 25 -
would be conditions of Credit Effectiveness (para 6.02 (ii)). Satisfactory
progress would be deemed to be the achievement of the operational targets
agreed at appraisal for the period prior to the proposed date of
effectiveness. TRC has already prepared plans that are satisfactory to IDA
to reduce the number of locomotives assigned to departmental services.
Finally, to ensure that the efforts of TRC in clearing operational lines of
defective wagons are maintained, agreement was reached with it during
negotiations that (a) it shall furnish to IDA for its review and comments
annually by not later than November 30, a plan for the scrapping of wagons
for the following year; and (b) it shall implement such plan taking into
account IDA's comments (para 6.01 (i)).
2.32      Internal Organizations To concentrate its managerial and
material resources on running the railways service, Government has decided
that TRC should divest itself of all direct managerial and financial
responsibilities for the hotels and catering services. The assets of this
service, comprising six hotels, will be leased out or transferred to the
private sector under arrangements that will effectively fulfill
Government's decision. Agreement was reached with Government and TRC
during negotiations on a time schedule of activities to be completed with
respect to the transfer of financial and managerial responsibilities for
the hotel and catering services. Consequent on this plan, agreement was
reached with Government and TRC that as a condition of Credit
Effectiveness, TRC shall have signed contracts, satisfactory to IDA, for
the leasing of the hotels services' assets and the franchising of the
catering services (para 6.02 (iii)). Agreement was also be reached with
Government and TRC that, by December 31, 1992, TRC shall have leased out
its hotels and franchised the catering services on its trains (para 6.01
(ii)). To fulfill this condition, hotels in which no one expresses an
interest in leasing would be closed. The Government/TRC action plan
provides for the completion of all closure measures by June 1992. It is
not anticipated that there will be a lack of interest in the franchising of
the catering services.
2.33      For the roads services, agreement was reached with Government
and TRC during appraisal that NTC would be commissioned to review the
services' operating and financial viability. This review was designed to
cover, inter alia, the market prospects for the services, the condition and
effective capacity of its fleet, its organizational structure and manpower
complement, the financial, traffic and maintenance management systems in
use and the recapitalization needs of the service if its operations are to
become viable. NTC has completed the review with the key finding that the
services (a) have been severely decapitalised over the last ten years; and
(b) cannot be commercially viable under current market conditions and TRC
management. Consequent to the release of the findings of the review,
Government has decided that managerial, financial and operating
responsibilities for the services' residual assets should be transferred to
another operator to be selected pursuant to procedures satisfactory to IDA.
These procedures would take the form of the leasing of the assets of the
service either as a package or as individual units. Any assets in which no
interest is expressed would be disposed of. In parallel with the
preparation of the offers for leasing, TRC has begun the process of
retrenchment of the services' workforce with the issue of termination
notices to about 200 out of the services' current workforce of 360. During



- 26 -
negotiations, agreement was reached with Government and TRC that as a
condition of Credit Effectiveness, TRC would have signed contracts,
satisfactory to IDA, for the leasing of the assets of the roads services
(para 6.02 (iii)). Agreement was also reached with Government and TRC
during negotiations that, no later than December 31, 1992, TRC shall have
completed the transfer of operational, managerial and financial
responsibility for its roads services to an independent operator (para 6.01
(iii)). To meet this condition, TRC plans to complete all measures related
to the divestment of responsibility for roads operations by June 1992.
2.34      TRC would retain the marine service as an autonomous division
headed by an Assistant Director General responsible for its financial and
operational performance. The head of the service would report directly to
the DG of TRC instead of to the ADG (Operations), whose predominant
preoccupation is with the dominant railways service. A comprehensive study
of the prospects for the marine service and the required changes in its
management has already been completed by consultants financed by DANIDA.
The study identified specific changes in sailing operations and maintenance
practices that need to be implemented to ensure that the services' ships
are efficiently utilized and the changes in staffing levels necess&ry to
enable it to independently sustain its operations. A follow-on program of
action has been planned to specify a time-frame for the achievement of the
changes in practices, performance targets to be achieved during this period
and financial objectives to be met. The new organizational arrangement for
the marine service has been endorsed by the Board of TRC and approved by
Government prior to the issue of the Ministerial Directive. To implement
this new organization, The Board of TRC has appointed formally a suitably
qualified head for the service and has delegated to him all the powers
necessary for him to be able to manage the service as an autonomous
division.
2.35      For the railways service, TRC would create a railways services
division headed by a deputy director general accountable for the operating
performance and profitability of the division. Under this reorganization,
achievement of the efficiency objectives would be the direct responsibility
of the DDG. The DDG would have explicit responsibility for the associated
costs and revenues of the service. Within the railways service, planning
for maintenance and transportation operations, marketing and pricing
services will be the responsibility of headquarters staff whilst co-
ordination of day-to-day operational activities will be delegated to three
zonal managers responcible for all operational activities in their
districts and reporting directly to the DDG. To assist in implementing
this restructured organization, TRC has hired consultants to prepare
detailed job descriptions for all headquarters and zonal posts down to
individual office units, to detail the delegation of responsibilities to
managers and supervisors in the structure, to design reporting and
performance monitoring systems between the zones and headquarters and to
prepare a detailed implementation schedule taking into account, in
particular, any staffing constraints. On completion of this assignment by
the consultants, TRC will hire a consultant with experience in establishing
a decentralized management structure in a railways system to assist the DDG
in putting in place the new structure. Under the proposed restructuring of
the railways service, the role of the DG would change from being
responsible for all aspects of operations under the existing centralized



- 27 -
structure to that of (a) setting corporate policies for manpower; (b)
allocating budgetary resources to the divisions; (c) establishing
divisional performance objectives; and (d) the monitoring and control of
such objectives. The proposed restructuring of the railways service has
been approved by the Board of TRC and endorsed by Government. The Board
has also appointed the current ADG (Operations) of TRC as the DDG for the
railways service with all delegated powers for the efficient and commercial
management of the service. The appointment is icceptable to IDA.
2.36      Manpower: To start to address overstaffing in the organization,
TRC in December, 1989, identified 1,150 casual staff and 740 permanent
staff as surplus to its requirements in various departments in the railways
service based on prevailing levels of operating efficiency. This surplus
was planned to be eliminated by December, 1990. Progress in achieving this
reduction in overmanned areas was slow initially with, in fact, increases
in staffing in some departments identified as overstaffed. During
appraisal, TRC confirmed its commitment to eliminating the identified
overstaffing in all departments by the originally scheduled date. This
condition has been fulfilled with the target reductions in surplus staff,
equivalent to about 112 of TRC's total workforce, effected by the end of
December, 1990. Since then, TRC has issued termination notices to a
further 750 permanent staff and maintained the level of casual staff to
below 300 compared to a seasonal average of over 1000. With implementation
of the OIP, TRC's staffing establishment and staff would need to be further
reduced as the requirement for staff is reduced with more efficient
operations. To quantify the scope for staff reductions and to provide and
cost the options for achieving such reductions, TRC has requested the
consultants engaged to undertake audits of its operations to identify the
staffing implications of their recommendations for more efficient
operations. This exercise in conjunction with a review of establishment
levels by department and manpower planning practices, will form the basis
of a staff reduction action plan to be prepared by TRC.  To address the
issue of inadequate remuneration, TRC has commissioned consultants to
develop a corporation-wide incentives scheme and salary structure to be
implemented by it. Terms of references for this proposed study wexe agreed
with TRC during appraisal. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
Government and TRC that, by no later than January 31, 1992, TRC would have
completed the preparation of and shall have started implementation of
action plans, satisfactory to IDA, to further reduce its manpower levels
and to introduce a corporation-wide revised salary structure and incentives
scheme (para 6.01 (iv)). A monitorable schedule of activities to ensure
that the above action plans are completed on a timely basis was agreed with
TRC at appraisal and reconfirmed during nepotiations.
2.37      Complementary Investments: An investment program to address the
backlog of deferred maintenance was agreed with TRC during appraisal and
confirmed at negotiations. The program will be funded under the project.
This program will have a number of distinct components. Firstly,
investments are required to rehabilitate locomotives, wagons, passenger
coaches and track and telecommunications infrastructural assets. The
condition, availability and reliability of these assets has deteriorated
significantly because of lack of timely or appropriate maintenance. These
assets would constitute a severe bottleneck on the achievement of the
efficiency objectives of the restructaring program unless the restoration



- 28 -
of their condition is quickly addressed. Secondly, investments are needed
to enable TRC to sustain improvements in the condition of its assets and
prevent the recurrence of a large backlog of maintenance in the future.
These comprise improvements in workshop facilities, training of staff in
improved systems of work planning, monitoring and control and in upgrading
of technical skills and strengthening of systems. To support its capacity
to maintain its assets in good condition, TRC would need foreign currency
resources to ensure an adequate level of spare parts for normal
maintenance, particularly of its fleet of locomotives and wagons. The
value of locomotives and wagons spare parts required each year, excluding
that required to extinguish the backlog of maintenance, is estimated at
between US$4.1 million and US$4.4 million (Annex 2-10). During appraisal,
Government undertook to provide assurances to TRC in the MOU that the list
of items eligible under the Open General License Import System (OGL) will
cover, et all points in time, the categories of items likely to be imported
by TRC for use in its maintenance activities. This provision has been
included in the MOU. Subject to the availability of adequate resources for
the OGL, the ability of TRC to maintain Its assets in good condition would
now depend whoily on its ability to generate sufficient cash from its
operations to cover its maintenance requirements.
2.38      Finally, little growth in traffic beyond the inherent existing
capacity of TRC is expected. Accordingly, no provision is made in the
project for investments to increase TRC's nominal capacity beyond its
existing level. TRC should have a strong commercial interest not to make
investments that would expand its capacity beyond what can be justified by
a rigorous analysis of the likely demand for rail transport and its limited
capacity to manage the implementation of projects. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with Government and TRC that (a) TRC's annual
investment plan will be reviewed annually by October 31 with IDA; (b) all
investments in such investment plan will be subjected to economic and
financial evaluation and justification; and (c) that of these investments
all those costing in excess of US$2.0 million equivalent will be
implemented only after consultations with IDA (para 6.01 (v)). However, if
in spite of poor economic and financial justification, Government wishes
TRC to make an investment, then the full cost of the investment, including
the cost of external implementation assistance and consequential losses
attributable to it, should be borne by Government. The MOU makes explicit
provision for Government to compensate TRC for the losses incurred in the
discharge of such obligations.



- 29 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The main objectives of the project are to (i) strengthen the
organization of TRC, eliminate regulatory bottlenecks to its effective
operations and set it on a path of a commercially viable entity; and
(ii) rehabilitate infrastructural assets, replace obsolete and uneconomic
operational assets and provide limited new investments consistent with the
prospects for growth in domestic traffic.
3.02      The attainment of these objectives is expected to lead to an
increase in TRC s effective haul capacity consistent with the demands of
the growing economy, improve its capacity to handle transit traffic to the
benefit of both Tanzania and its landlocked neighbors and improve its
financial performance. The project objectives are consistent with and
supportive of Government objectives in the sector.
B. Genesis of the Project
3.03      The proposed project is a follow-on to the EP, which was planned
as the first phase of a two-phased approach to increasing TRC9s effective
haul capacity. The success of the EP in meeting its objectives is analyzed
in Annex 2-11 and summartzed in para 2.24. The proposed project has been
designed to address the key institutional weaknesses encountered during the
implementation of the EP. As part of the EP a comprehensive Development
Study of TRC was to be undertaken. The study, financed by IDA, was
designed to review TRC19 organization, operations and traffic prospects and
to recommend an action plan and a complementary investment program to
address identified constraints on the system's capacity to meet the
prospective level of demand effectively.  To supplement the Development
Study, detailed studies on the condition of the track and the economic life
of the locomotive fleet have been undertaken with financing from DANIDA and
CIDA whilst a detailed assessment of the maintenance requirements of the
locomotive fleet and wagons has been carried out with assistance from CIDA,
ODA, DANIDA and KfW. The Development Study was completed with substantial
delays. Its diagnosis of the structural problems in TRC has formed one of
the bases on which the restructuring strategy proposed under this project
has been formulated.
C. Project Description
3.04      The project consists of the following components:
Physical Investments
(a) relaying of about 200 km of rail and reballasting of about 800
km of track (including matching sleepers for the rerailing
program);
(b) rehabilitation and strengthening of 22 bridges;



- 30 -
tc) establishment of one stone quarry for ballast;
td) procurement of equipment for track maintenance;
(e)  construLion and equipping of a central plant maintenance and
permanent way workshop;
(f) procurement of accident relief equipment;
(g) procurement of about 40 trolleys and service vehicles;
(h) renewal of the Tanga and Link line overhead communications wires
and provision of equipment and spare parts for the TRC
telecommunications system;
(i) rehabilitation of about 1750 wagons;
(j) rehabilitation of 100 coaches and procurement of 27 new
passenger coaches.
(k) rehabilitation of 31 locomotives;
(1) upgrading of the mechanical engineering workshops;
Organizational Development and Operational Support Components
(a) improvement of TRC's operations through the adoptior. and imple-
mentation of efficient methods of planning and control of
functional activities in the railways, including carrying out a
management development program, development of TRC's in-house
training capacity for apprenticeship programs and skills
upgrading and provision of on-the-job training to TRC
management;
(b) implementation of the assets (wagon, track and locomotive)
rehabilitation components of the Project;
(c) improvement of TRC's financial management and accounting
practices;
ld) improvement of TRC's management and oper6tions information
systems, through inter alia, the provision of training and the
acquisition of computers, soft ware and other office equipment;
(e) improvement of working conditions for TRC's employees, including
establishment of a revised salary and wages structure, a
productivity-based incentive scheme and the rehabilitation of
operational facilities including stations and offices.



- 31 -
(i) Physical Investments:
(a) Track Relaying
3.05      The project will provide for the complete relaying of 200 km of
track identified as of the highest priority (in the sense of relieving the
most binding speed or prospectively binding speed restrictions on the
track) far rehabilitation out of 510 km assessed by consultants as
requiring relaying by the year 2000. About 140 km of rail is already
available with TRC, being leftover from an earlier rerailing program. The
balance of rail requirements together with matching sleepers for the whole
rerailing program will be procured under the project. Agreement has been
reached with TRC that the choice of sections for rerailing will be made
with a view to achieving gradual restoration of speeds over the entire
section rather than having some sections with high permissible speeds and
others continuing with speed restrictions. The prioritization of sections
to be relayed has been agreed based on the density of traffic on and the
relative condition of sections. Relaying is anticipated to be at a rate of
40 km p.a. which is consistent with productivity experienced to date on
similar works and the widely scattered nature of the work planned. All new
rails will have welded joints. The project will also provide for the
replacement of about 27,000 sleepers (19 km), the reballasting of about 800
km of track and an intensive maintenance program covering about 540 km to
clear the backlog of deferred maintenance. The program of track
rehabilitation will be confined to the mainline. Traffic density on the
branch lines do not justify any major track rehabilitation. The detailed
track relaying and rehabilitation program is attached as Annex 3-1.
(b) Bridges rehabilitation
3.06      The project will finance the rehabilitation and strengthening of
22 bridges on the Central line for which preliminary engineering has been
completed. This will complete the program of bridge strengthening on the
Central line started with KfW assistance. Provision has been made for the
detailed study of the coh.dition of bridges on the Link line and for
preliminary and detailed engineering for any recommended program of bridge
rehabilitation.
(c) Stone Quarries
3.07      There are at present two quarries under the control of TRC.
Only one of these is currently operational but with low utilization due to
problems with plant and equipment. The capacity of the operational quarry,
if rehabilitated, is sufficient to meet TRC's routine requirement for
ballast. However, given the backlog of reballasting to be done, there is
an additional requirement for about 250,000 cubic meters of ballast p.a.
for about five years to liquidate the backlog whilst keeping current with
routine requirements. The location of the existing operational quarry and
the concentration of track denuded of ballast, dictates the establishment
of a new quarry around Tabora on the Central line rather than
rehabilitation of the non-operational quarry in order to minimize
transportation costs. During appraisal, agreement was reached with TRC
that in view of its need to focus on implementing the track works and its
past difficulties with maintaining an adequate level of utilization of its



- 32 -
quarry facilities, the operation of the proposed quarry should be
contracted out to experienced quarry operators. This agreement was
confirmed at negotiations (para 6.01 (vi)).
(d) Track Maintenance Equipment
3.08      The availability of track equipment is currently only about 50Z
and the complement of track maintenance equipment is inadequate to support
the level of programmed track work necessary to arrest future deterioration
in the condition of the track. To ensure that the track rehabilitation
program and future track maintenance is not impeded by unavailability of
equipment, the project includes provision for purchase of new track
maintenance machines and tools.
(e) Plant Maintenance and Permanent Way Depot
3.09      A large percentage of track maintenance equipment not currently
serviceable can be economically reclaimed. It is planned to make a
beginning with a small-scale maintenance depot to provide preventive as
well as breakdown maintenance to the track equipment and also take up the
rehabilitation of the equipment currently under breakdown. The components
of the depot would include light and heavy machine shops; engine,
fabrication and electric shops; diesel room; and cleaning and painting
sections. The depot will also have a section for the maintenance and
manufacture of turnouts. Material handling, cutting and milling equipment
and storage space have been included in this component. Support in
establishing maintenance planning systems and procedures and plant
monitoring systems will be provided to TRC under the Management Development
and Support component of the project (paras 3.19 to 3.21).
(f) Accident Relief Equipment
3.10      TRC's inability to clear accident sites on the track on a timely
basis due to lank of appropriate equipment is a major cause of disruptions
to its operatio,s. TRC has two 60-tonne breekdown cranes both of which are
undergoing major overhauls under the BP. The project will provide
additional accident relief equipment such as hydraulic jacks, lighting
sets, communication sets and equipment and tools as well as equipment,
spare parts and training for the maintenance of the cranes.
(g) Trolleys
3.11      TRC's stock of serviceable trolleys for transport of men and
material for track maintenance and renewal and for maintenance and
inspection of the telecommunications system is inadequate. The
consequential reduction in the mobility of its work force impedes their
productivity and the quality of supervision. The project will correct this
deficiency by providing an additional 40 trolleys to be distributed as
follows; light motor trolleys (4), flying gang trolleys with trailers (18),
inspection trolleys (18).



- 33 -
(h) Telecommunications
3.12      The open-wire system on the Link line is in a seriously
deteriorated condition which impedes effective voice communications and
train control. A number of studies of alternative systems to replace the
open wire system on this segment of the TRC system indicate that the
capital costs of such replacements would be very high and may not be
justified by the existing and foreseeable low density of traffic on the
line. Based on this, the most cost effective system for restoration of
adequate communications facilities on this line is the restringing of the
existing system, with provision made for protecting segments of the line
likely to be vulnerable to vandalism and the theft of wires.  Provision has
been made in the project to rehabilitate the system on this basis.
However, at negotiations, it was agreed that before work on this
rehabilitation is initiated, a study on the future of telecommunications on
TRC will first be undertaken. This study would shed more light on the
appropriate replacement strategy for the Link line telecommunications
network than the partial studies done to date by placing prospective
developments in the Link line segment of the network in the context of a
broader strategy for the system as a whole. The study would review (a) the
future needs for telecommunications on the system as a whole; (b) the
ability of the low capacity open-wire system that is the core of the TRC
telecommunications infrastructure to cope with the volume and nature of the
demand; (c) supplemental or replacement facilities that would be required;
(d) the feasibility and desirability of meeting all or part of TRC's demand
for telecommunications services from facilities owned and dedicated to TRC
as opposed to seeking appropriate access to the public telecommunications
network. The decision and basis on which to proceed with the Link line
open-wire rehabilitation will be based on the conclusions of this review.
(i) Wagons
3.13      TRC's fleet of general purpose wagons is projected to decline
from 3,206 units in 1989 to 1912 units by 1995 as a result of the scrapping
of obsolete and life-expired wagons. Similarly, the fleet of tank wagons
is expected to decline from 320 units to 125 units over the same period.
However, due to the anticipated improvements in productivity under the OIP,
there will be a surplus of about 273 general purpose wagons and a shortfall
of 122 tank wagons by 1996 despite a projected increase in traffic of about
123X. The surplus of general purpose wagons will only be realized if the
availability of such wagons improves materially from about 60S in the first
quarter of 1990 to the targeted 92Z in 1994 onwards. For this to be
achieved, TRC would need to liquidate the large arrears of general overhaul
of wagons that has been accumulated by undertaking a regular overhaul
maintenance program of about 400 wagons a year. Support will be provided
under the project for this program of elimination of deferred maintenance.
TRC currently has a fleet of 50 container wagons converted from its fleet
of low-sided bogie wagons. The proportion of the total projected traffic
that is likely to be containerized is difficult to determine with any
measure of confidence. However, there will be a large surplus of
serviceable general purpose wagons that can be converted to carry
containers by equipping them with twist locks and modifying their sides as
necessary. This grants TRC considerable flexibility in catering to any
feasible growth in containerized traffic at very low capital cost.



- 34-
Provision has been made in the project for the procurement of sufficient
sets of twist-locks to enable the conversion of 200 general purpose wagons
to container-carrying wagons. TRC will plan for conversions on an annual
basis, taking into account evolving trends in traffic.
3.14      With respect to tank wagons, TRC's fleet will be adequate to
meet the demand for the domestic movem-ent of petroleum products provided
that these are undertaken on a basis that minimizes running times between
the major origins and destinations and detentions of wagons at terminal
yards as envisaged under the OIP. The assessed shortfall in tank wagons
relates to transit traffic. Since the utilization of wagons for transit
traffic will be wholly dependent on the magnitude of such flows, it is
appropriate that the financial risk related to such assets be assumed by
the parties responsible for determining the volume of such traffic. Under
the recently approved Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project, agreement
was reached between IDA and Government that about 42 tank wagons would be
provided to the oil companies through TPDC on this basis. Uganda Railways
will provide the balance of the shortfall (80 tank wagons) which relates to
fuel movements to Uganda. TRC and Uganda Railways have already started
discussions on the operational and commercial basis on which Uganda
Railways would provide these tank wagons.
(j) Passenger Coaches
3.15      TRC currently operates passenger services on two main axes: (a)
Dar es Salaam to Kigoma and Mwanza on the Central line with four pairs of
trains per week; and (b) Dar es Salaam to Tanga and Moshi with three pairs
of trains per week. These services are operated with a consist of 10
coaches per train although the time tabled provision (which is consistent
with the haul capacity of the locomotives assigned to these services and
loop length capacity systemwide) is 19 coaches. Prior to 1985, these
services were operated on a daily basis with the timetabled consist.
However, in 1985, the decline in locomotive availability made this
frequency of service unsustainable if freight capacity was not to be
drastically curtailed. Since then, the supply of capacity has been
substantially reduced as the availability of coaches has declined. In
addition to these services, TRC operates a thrice weekly service on the
Mpanda line and a thrice weekly service local service between Tabora and
Kigoma on the Central line. These services cover an extensive settled area
not served by roads. Other mixed services and shuttle services between
various centers were discontinued in 1985. Under the project, the service
levels of 1985 with respect to the main axes of service will be restored.
Based on the timetabled turnaround cycles of passenger trains on these
axes, which have been reviewed and are acceptable, this would require a
total complement of 127 coaches, including an adequate provision for
maintenance spares. To achieve this complement of coaches, the project
provides for the rehabilitation of the serviceable coaching fleet of 100
units and the procurement of 27 new economy (third class) coaches. The
rehabilitation of coaches would put special emphasis on reducing their
future susceptibility to vandalism through appropriate changes in
furnishing and housings for lighting and other electrical equipment. For
the Mpanda and Kigoma line services, the requirement of coaching stock (14
units) can be met from minimal refurbishment of part of the coaching stock
under survey for scrapping.



- 35 -
(k) Locomotive Rehabilitation and Rebuilding
3.16      TRC's locomotive rebuilding and rehabilitation program for the
six-year period, 1990 to 1995, is shown at Annex 3-2. Under this program,
TRC is firmly scheduled to rebuild or rehabilitate 30 mainline and 11
shunting locomotives and has provided for the possible rehabilitation of
seven other mainline locomotives now set aside. Ten of the fleet of 15
Class 73 locomotives are planned to be rehabilitated. The remaining five
of this fleet of locomotives were found, after a survey of the condition of
this class of locomotives, to have defective traction motors requiring
replacement. Since the traction motors of this design are not manufactured
any more, the decision to rehabilitate these locomotives would be finalized
only after the rehabilitation of the other ten locomotives and the
identification of an alternative equivalent traction motor. The Class 73
rehabilitation program is a carry-over from the EP and the spare parts
requirements have been fully funded already. The mainstay of TRC's motive
power is the fleet of 35 Claas 88 locomotives. Ten of these locomotives
have been set aside for various reasons and are proposed to be
rehabilitated under the program. The program also provides for the
possible rehabilitation of two Class 72 locomotives which were set aside in
1987 due to TRC's inability to carry out major maintenance then due. It is
proposed to undertake this rehabilitation only after a technical and
economic evaluation of the merits of doing so has been done. Finally, 10
Class 64 locomotives, six of which are accident-damaged, and 11 Class 36
locomotives overdue for major maintenance are planned to be overhauled
under the project.
3.17      Assuming that the firm rebuilding and rehabilitation program is
implemented fully, analysis of TRC's operations indicates that it will
require six new locomotives to cater to a peak projected traffic level of
2.2 million tonnes in 1995 if it achieves fully the efficiency targets of
the OIP. Details of this analysis are given in Annex 3-3. Viewed
alternatively, TRC's effective capacity with its existing fleet of mainline
locomotives, when fully rehabilitated, will be about 1.8 million tonnes.
There is a substantial risk that a greater number of locomotives than will
be required by operations would result from the full implementation of
TRC's planned program of locomotives rehabilitation. This risk arises from
two sources. First, TRC currently has nine new mainline locomotives, to be
financed by the European Development Fund (EDF), on order from the
manufacturers. These locomotives, when delivered, would give TRC an
incremental capacity of about 0.6 million tonnes of traffic at its average
haul or about 0.2 million tonnes more than the maximum projected traffic
for the system of 2.2 million tonnes. Under the financing agreement for
these locomotives, TRC is required to dedicate them to transit traffic. If
the locomotives are dedicated to transit traffic as envisaged, there will
be no surplus locomotivess the projected maximum transit traffic of 0.4
million tonnes will absorb the full fleet of new locomotives, reflecting
the inherent redundancies in the system not being able to share locomotives
amongst different streams of traffic. Although, in principle, such an
arrangement will be satisfactory, in practice the necessary pre-conditions
for its successful operation are not yet in place. With the notable
exception of Uganda Railways, there are no organizations in place to ensure
that transit traffic will be made available in train blocks to TRC rather
than in unit wagon loads. Traffic in uncoordinated unit wagon loads would



- 36 -
reduce the effective capacity of the circuit and increase the implicit
redundancies in the use of the locomotives. Further, in the absence of
such intermediate organizations, there will be no parties with whom TRC can
enter into clear commercial arrangements to ensure that the full capital
cost of the locomotives will be recovered from transit customers and that
services are scheduled and performed efficiently. Under these
circumstances, it is likely that the locomotives will be idle for prolonged
periods of time during which there will be no identified party to
compensate TRC for the consequential loss of revenue. The EDF is conscious
of these potential obstacles to the efficient operation of a dedicated
transit traffic circuit on the TRC system and the possible secondary
effects on the performance of TRC. It is currently in the process of
recruiting consultants to assist the governments of the participating
transit countries, Tanzania and TRC to work out a detailed strategy for the
financial and operational arrangements on the circuit. The recommendations
arising from this exercise might, however, take a long time to implement
effectively. Secondly, the traffic prospects, although well researched,
are uncertain. If traffic is less than projected, the pressure for the
efficient utilization of locomotives will be undermined. Also, TRC would
have incurred rehabilitation expenses with no corresponding increase in
traffic and revenues. Given the foregoing, it would be prudent for TRC to
defer the rehabilitation of some locomotives to hedge against the risk of a
greater number of locomotives than dictated by realized traffic undermining
the restructuring strategy's efficiency and financial objectives. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with TRC on a core rehabilitation
program comprising of the proposed TRC program but excluding the five Class
73 locomotives with defective traction motors and two Class 72 locomotives.
These would be considered for rehabilitation only after 1993 when the
results of a mid-term review of the project would be available.   For the
core program, agreement was reached with TRC that it would be subject to
annual review with IDA in the light of evolving traffic conditions (para
6.01 (vii)). Funding has been provided for the core program (exc;.uding the
pre-funded Class 73 locomotives) under the project.
(1)  Maintenance Facilities
3.18      The project provides for the replacement of obsolete equipment
and the procurement of load boxes and other inspection equipment for the
Morogoro, Dar es Salaam and Tabora mechanical engineering workshops and
depots. Provision has also beei! mede for changes in the layout of the Dar
es Salaam workshops to improve the flow of production to be undertaken
after completion of a study to be conducted by TRC staff assisted by
expatriate staff. In view of the environmentally unsound practices
currently adopted for the disposal of used oil by TRC (para 3.32),                       -
provision has been made for the procurement of a small-scale used-oil
recycling plant.



- 37 -
(ii) Organizational Development and Operational Support
(a) ImRrovement of Operations
3.19      Management Development and Supports As detailed in Chapter II,
TRC will embark on a three-phased program to improve the efficiency of its
operations through a program of adoption and implementation of efficient
methods of planning and control of most functional activities in the
railways. Phase 3 of this program will involve the systematic transfer of
management systems and skills in all functional areas to TRC staff. The
assistance for the program will be structured in three phases: ti) a
preliminary diagnostic review by a ten-member management development
consultant team to familiarize itself with the systems in use on TRC in
order to map out the desirable plan for changes needed to enhance
efficiency, and to identify the specific capabilities and training needs of
managerial staff; (ii) introduction of the changes in systems and
procedures, and training, both in organized formal classes and on the job,
of TRC staff in managing efficiently with the changed systems; and (iii)
subject to annual reviews, beginning after 12 months from the start of the
first phase, modifications in the scope and continuation of the scheme for
up to a further three years.
3.20      The precise role in the TRC organization of the individual
functional specialists of the management support team will vary, depending
upon the technical competency and experience of the TRC managers and the
state of the systems currently in use. Two distinct roles for the
management support team members are envisaged as a result of the
variability in the quality and experience of the TRC management. First,
most of the functional specialists will be engaged primarily in developing
or improving systems and procedures, the documentation of such work and the
training of TRC managers in their use. Second, there will be instances
where management support will assume defined line responsibilities with
designated TRC counterparts; these team members will have direct
responsibility for systems development, counterpart staff training and
coaching and TRC line management duties and responsibilities for defined
periods of time. During negotiations, TRC indicated that, based on the
current staffing of its management positions, it does not envisage that any
of the technical assistance staff under the program will be in positions
with line responsibilities. However, the final role of individual
technical assistance staff will be determined by TRC after taking into
account the result of the diagnostic review provided for in the program.
3.21      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government and
TRC that the annual review for the management development support program
will be conducted on a tripartite basis with TRC, the external team and IDA
(para 6.01 (ix)). The review will evaluate the effectiveness of the system
changes and the transfer of technology and know-how, taking into account
corporate, departmental and individual performance results. To assist in
ensuring the effectiveness of the management development and support
program, an Institutional Development Advisor and Coordinator will be
recruited by TRC under the project to assist the DG and the DDG of the
railways service to monitor the program and to assist in defining desirable
changes in the emphases of its various components. This advisor, who



- 38 -
should be a railways specialist with extensive general management
experience in the industry, will be recruited on an individual basis.
Detailed draft Terms of Reference for the management development and
support program are attached as Annex 3-4. A total of 390 man-months of
technical assistance is provided for this component.
3.22      Supervisorv Staff Development and Support: Assistance will be
provided to TRC to strengthen the capacity of its supervisory staff to
effectively manage the activities under their charge. This support will be
financed by a number of donors and will focus primarily on the mechanical
engineering department. To ensure that a consistent framework for the
provision of this assistance is adopted by all prospective donors,
agreement was reached with TRC during appraisal on a template of activities
that should ordinarily be undertaken by its supervisory staff. This
template will be used by TRC to determine the gaps in the capacity of its
supervisory level staff and the technical assistance requirements in this
area as well as to monitor the effectiveness of technical assistance staff.
The program of assistance for supervisory development and support will be
subject to an annual review by TRC. Agreement was reached with TRC during
negotiations that the results of the review will be made available to v A
and that TRC would, consequent to the review, make appropriate changes to
any or all parts of the program taking into account the views of IDA (para
6.01 (ix)). A provision of 360 man-months of technical assistance has been
made for the program of management and supervisory development and support.
3.23      Training: Although training is acknowledged as being of crucial
importance to the long-term effectiveness of TRC as an organization, TRC
has only recently started to evolve a coherent strategy for its provision.
As a result, the training effort has up to now suffered from a number of
deficiencies: there is no corporate-wide assessment of training needs and
prioritisation of the allocation of resources for training has been a
largely ad-hoc exercise, driven by immediate needs to fill basic skills
gaps. The training effort is currently highly fragmented, provided in
adequate measure in areas where donor interest and support is available and
absent in other areas. There is no framework for the independent
evaluation by TRC of the effectiveness of training provided.   The training
function offers no clear career progression path for TRC staff and
consequently suffers from an inability to recruit good staff. Investment
in training facilities and resources has been accorded a very low priority
given the pressing demands of operational activities, TRC's parlous
financial state and the absence of a well-formulated strategy guiding the
provision of and investment in training. To correct this deficiency,
agreement was reached with TRC during negotiations that by January 31,
1992, TRC would prepare and furnish to IDA for its review, its training
plan and strategy (para 6.01 (x)). In the interim, agreement was reached
during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations, that the project would
provide coverage for the areas not covered or only inadequately covered by
existing programs. The project would provide for the set-up costs of
training programs to be offered on a continuous basis locally and for
management training overseas during the project period. The costs of
sustaining the local program would be borne by TRC and the training
strategy paper would provide the pointers on how this would be done within
TRC's resources.



- 39 -
3.24      In accordance with the above, the project will provide about 80
man-months of the services of training specialists for the preparation of
training curricula and material covering the requirements of all
departments (except for mechanical and telecommunications engineering,
where extensive ongoing programs are already in place) for trainees to
supervisory level staff and for technical assistance to cover the initial
implementation of courses and the training of TRC trainers. An important
facet to manpower development that is largely absent from TRC is the
continuous upgrading of the skills of staff. There are few
institutionalized programs for training staff who are not in apprenticeship
programs or who are not being prepared for promotion. As a result, old
practices based on knowledge or training acquired in the distant past and
no longer relevant to current circumstances tend to dominate, adversely
affecting practically all areas of the organization. Provision has been
made in the project for the development of training material for continuing
education in all relatively specialized railways operational fields, except
in locomotives maintenance and telecommunications engineering where the
current donor support is adequate. As part of the management development
program, TRC's management staff would need exposure to the working of other
well-run railways as well as periodic attendance on courses organized by
railways colleges and professional institutes overseas and the Eastern and
Southern African Management Institute (ESAMI) in Tanzania. Provision has
been made for the financing of this type of training activity in the
project. The provision made is for about 44 courses or periods of
secondment to overseas railways of an average duration of three months.
Support will also be provided to TRC to adequately equip its training
school with visual aids equipment and engineering demonstration modules.
(b) Implementation Support
3.25      During appraisal, agreement was reached with TRC on the
following approach to the implementation of the physical rehabilitation
components of the projects First, TRC will divide the rehabilitation
activities into subprojects based on the nature of work to be undertaken,
the geographic location of activities, the expected source of inputs to be
obtained externally, etc. Second, for each such subproject, TRC will
define its resources requirements, the timing of such requirements and the
output and completion schedule. These schedules of input requirements and
outputs will be formalized in production plans or resources budgets for
each subproject. Third, TRC will appoint a manager for each sub-project.
These managers will be accountable for the output of the sub-projects per
the agreed schedules and budgeted costs. Quality control of the sub-
project works will be effected under TRC procedures which are to be
strengthened under pre-project activities currently underway as well as
under the Management Development and Support component of the project.
Fourth, TRC will appoint, by negotiations, a senior officer for the
coordination, monitoring and progress-chasing of the overall rehabilitation
program. The scope of activities of this officer will include the
consolidation of sub-project schedules into a master plan; tracking of the
flow of external inputs; resolution of conflicts particularly in
requirements of inputs; monitoring of the rate of progress in overall
project implementation, both physical and financial; and the initiation and
review of course-correction actions for the individual sub-projects.



- 40 -
Provision has already been made for such a post in TRC's revised
organizational structure.
3.26      TRC will need external assistance to satisfactorily undertake
the rehabilitation program within this implementation framework. Such
assistance will have two basic objectives: (a) fill the gapu in TRC's
technical capacity to do some tasks; and (b) relieve some of TRC's managers
of the task of monitoring and controlling the pace of rehabilitation
activities that are essentially one-off exercises in order to concentrate
on improving and managing day-to-day operations to avoid further backlogs
of maintenance. Technical assistance for operational support in
implementing the rehabilitation program will be provided in three areass
(a) wagon rehabilitation; (b) track rehabilitation; and (c) locomotives
rehabilitation.
3.27      For the wagons and coaches rehabilitation programs, technical
assistance will be provided to draw up production plans and schedules and
the periodic resources budgets, to assist in monitoring the progress of
implementation and to resolve technical problems arising during sub-
project implementation. This arrangement has worked satisfactorily in TRC
in the wagon rehabilitation program of the EP. About 72 man-months of
technical assistance support has been provided for these programs. In
addition to this provision, a total provision has also been made of 24 man-
months of operational support to assist TRC in redesigning the layout of
the Dar es Salaam workshop and in supervising the installation and
commissioning of new equipment.
3.28      On track rehabilitation works, TRC uses a well-established
project approach with a distinct resource budget, including staff, for each
such work program. However, work scheduling, resources budgeting and
resources control has tended to be inadequate. Progress on TRC-controlled
rehabilitation programs is hampered by untimely and uncoordinated
availability of inputs from TRC-controlled plants such as ballasts from its
quarry, sleepers from the sleeper reconditioning plant and low availability
of maintenance equipment. Technical assistance will be provided under the
management development and support program to strengthen TRC's capacity to
manage the maintenance of equipment devoted to track maintenance and
related activities. Ballast for the rehabilitation works will be
predominantly from the proposed new quarry. To ensure timely and adequate
availability of this item, agreement was reached with TRC during
negotiations that the operation and mn 'gement of the proposed quarry would
be contracted out to an external party who should provide guarantees of
timely production of ballast (para 3.07).  Further, during appraisal,
agreement was reached with TRC that the movement of ballast and other
materials to work sites would be the responsibility of the traffic
department and would be based on a time schedule of requirements, based on
the resources budget, to be provided to this department by the civil
engineering department. This arrangement would ensure a focal point of
responsibility for movement of material whilst ensuring the optimal use of
locomotives assets. The residual requirement is for assistance to ensure
that the program of works is implemented to acceptable standards of quality
and that productivity levels are acceptable. Provision has been made for
about 24 man-months of operational support in the form of an experienced
track inspector to fill this role. Under the EP, track rehabilitation



- 41 -
works were organized along similar lines but without adequate arrangements
to ensure the availability of all related resources to the project
managers. The arrangements proposed under the project adequately cover the
areas where control was weak under the EP and which impeded the rate of
progress.
3.29      Past locomotive rehabilitation programs in TRC have relied on
external assistance. However, there was no clear framework for such
assistance. Responsibility for output, both in quality and quantity terms,
as between TRC managers and expatriate assistance was unclear. Although
production schedules were routinely prepared, these were not linked
explicitly to a resources budget agreed with TRC senior management and used
as the basis for monitoring of performance. The management of the
rehabilitation works tended to be highly commingled with that of management
of running maintenance, leading to frequent conflicts over the allocation
of resources and diluting the assignment of responsibility for such
programs. Low value but critical items were frequently not adequately
budgeted for in the rehabilitation programs but were expected to be
available as the need arises, leading to frequent disruption of work.
During appraisal, agreement was reached with TRC that the locomotives
rehabilitation program would be divided into sub-projects based on
locomotives classes. For each sub-project, a TRC engineer would be
appointed as a manager. Technical assistance would be provided to each
sub-project manager to assist in drawing up schedules and resources
requirements for each year and to assist in resolving technical problems as
they arise. A total of about 250 man-months of technical assistance has
been provided under the project for support of the locomotives
rehabilitation component.
3.30      In addition to the above project implementation support,
technical assistance will be provided to TRC to establish systems and
procedures for the coordination and monitoring of the project
rehabilitation program and to provide complementary training to the overall
project coordinator and his staff. To provide such assistance, TRC will
recruit an experienced project manager with extensive railways experience
or substantial experience in managing large and complex engineering
projects. This arrangement will enable TRC to progressively
institutionalize the capacity to manage future investment programs. Also,
a small provision has been made for technical assistance to fill line
positions that may become vacant for unavoidable reasons and for which
timely recruitment of a suitably qualified local national may be difficult.
The tenure of such technical assistance staff would be strictly bounded.
(c) Financial Management Support
3.31      Under the EP, ODA has been providing assistance to TRC in
accounting and financial management. Assistance uader this program had
consisted of the financing of an accountant in a senior line management
position. The primary tasks of this officer evolved to focus on the
management of working capital and cash, monitoring of debt and in providing
advice to the DG on capital budgeting matters and capital restructuring.
ODA also financed a diagnostic review of the accounting system - both for
external reporting and internal budgetary and management control. It is
proposed to continue assistance in the area of financial management but to



- 42 -
refocus it more sharply on the development of formal systems for working
capital management, investment vetting and capital budgeting, debt
monitoring and corporate financial planning. As a follow-up to the
diagnostics study of TRC's accounting system, assistance will be provided
to TRC to implement changes in its accounting system and to prepare
accounting manuals documenting the procedures for entries in the accounting
system. Assistance will also be provided to TRC revamp its management
accounting system, introduce effective cost and budgetary control
procedures and to establish an operational auditing unit within its
internal audit department to monitor the cost-effectiveness or efficiency
with which selected operational activities are undertakeni. Finally, TRC
does not currently have a complete knowledge of its fixed assets. The
assets register and the assets records maintained by the operating
departments are inconsistent. Asset values in the balance sheet are
significantly understated and provide a highly distorted picture of the
financial position of TRC. Profits, defined as the surplus after making
adequate provision for the maintenence of TRC's operating capacity, are
grossly overstated as a result of the understatement of the true
replacement cost of assets and the consequential understatement of
depreciation provisions. To rectify this situation, the project provides
for consulting services to assist TRC in undertaking a complete inventory
and revaluation of its physical assets.
(d) Information Systems
3.32      A number of initiatives have been taken, are underway or are
planned for under the project to restructure the information systems of
TRC. Under the EP, ODA-financed consultants undertook a comprehensive
review of TRC's financial accounting system and recommended changed in the
structure and scope of the system to facilitate easier and more timely
compilation of the accounts and generate, more readily, information for
financial management and analysis. The assistance to be provided under the
financial management component of the project will extend this work by
developing specific analytical systems for financial management and by
restructuring TRC's expenditure accounting systems for more effective cost
and budgetary control. For operating activities covering mechanical
engineering and transportation, on-going studies to improve the efficiency
of such activities will identify operating data requirements, review
current statistical collection, analysis and dissemination practices and
recommend appropriate changes in such practices to facilitate more
effective monitoring, planning and control of such activities.
Improvements in the structure of these information systems will however,
not lead to any significant corresponding improvements in operating and
financial performance unless the information generated can be made
available to users on a timely basis. To enhance TRC's data processing
capacity to achieve this timeliness objective, provision has been made
under the project for the replacement of the existing mainframe computer,
which is now prone to increasingly frequent failures. It is proposed to
replace the existing central mainframe with a host computer under the
control of TRC's data processing department linked by a local area network
to a selected number of local sites around the TRC headquarters complex. A
small number of personal computers will also be provided under the project
for primarily stand-alone applications. Agreement was reached with TRC
dui.ing negotiations that a short study would be taken prior to any



- 43 -
procurement action to determine the most cost-effective configuration of
such a system to meet short-run and long-run needs and to determine the
distribution of responsibilities and functions of the local and host
centers. The project provides for assistance to TRC in developing
statement of user requirements based on the information systems reviews and
for procurement of software for the applications identified by such reviews
and technical support in installing the software and training TRC staff.
The project also provides for photocopying and printing machines, shortages
of which hinders considerably effective communications in TRC.
(e) Organizational Support
3.33      The effectiveness of TRC's workforce in meeting corporate
objectives is affected by a number of factors, other than those relating to
technical and managerial competency and the condition of its major classes
of operating and infrastructural assets already referred to above. These
factors divide into three groupst (a) the adequacy of immediate
remuneration; (b) the prospects for pensions; and (c) the adequacy of the
working environment.
3.34      Immediate Remuneration: The level and structure of wages,
salaries and related benefits paid by TRC to its workforce are both
inadequate to attract good quality entrants into its workforce, elicit the
maxfimum commitment of the existing workforce to the organization's
objectives and encourage the acquisition of skills and assumption of
greater managerial or supervisory responsibilities by its workers (para
2.07). Under the MoU, TRC has been granted the autonomy to set its wages
and salaries in accordance with what is necessary for it to achieve its
commercial objectives. To enable TRC to discharge this autonomy
effectively, agreement was reached with it during appraisal that a study
would be undertaken to review its salary structure and levels, to recommend
changes in such structure and levels that would make it competitive and to
devise a productivity-based incentive scheme for various categories of
workers. Consultants to assist in the cnnduct of the study have a.Ceady
been selected. Agreement was reached with Government and TRC during
negotiations that by January 31, 1992 the study would be completed and an
incentives packages plan and revised salary structure based on its findings
would be prepared and implementation on them started (para 2.33). Based on
the financial projections prepared for this project, TRC should not
encounter difficulties financing an adequate plan provided it maintains
relatively efficient operations.
3.35      As part of the package of incentives to be introduced during the
project, TRC intends, with support from the World Food Program (WFP), to
implement a food-based incentives program under the project. The program
will be for workers engaged in track maintenance project work who generally
reside in remote areas along the line of rail. The program has been costed
at about US$ 5.0 million equivalent representing the estimated cost of
meeting the food requirements of the families of the gangmen over a period
of five years. The food would be sold to the gangmen with an implicit
subsidy on market prices embodying an incentive element of 25Z. During
appraisal, agreement was reached with WFP and TRC that the net proceeds
generated from food sales would be used by TRC for the digging of wells to



- 44 -
serve gang encampments. This would have two benefits. It would
progressively reduce the requirement for watering trains which currently
serve the gang cmps and to which about four locomotives are continuously
assigned and diverted from revenue service. It would also enhance the
potential for agricultural output by the families of gangmen who are
currently restricted by limited access to water along a significant stretch
of the line of rail. During appraisal, agreement was reached with WFP and
TRC that a food-based incentive scheme would be introduced only after the
action plans for TRC's manpower reduction and incentives programs have
been completed. This would enable the scheme to be integrated into a wider
scheme for rationalizing the numbers employed on track work and introducing
and funding sustainable incentives schemes. Also, the WFP would during its
detailed appraisal of the scheme take full acco'ct of the distribution
costs that would be entailed by the scheme in order to ensure that the
benefits of the scheme are not eroded by such costs.
3,36      Pension Prospects: the majority of TRC workers belong to the
national pension scheme administered under the National Provident Fund or
the parastatal pension scheme managed by the National Insurance
Corporation. The best available information suggests that the funding of
these schemes is inadequate to provide an adequate level of pensions to the
their participants. Of even greater concern, the schemes are unlikely to
be able to ensure an adequate or any degree of indexation of the
entitlement of beneficiaries. After a lifetime of working, a majority of
TRC workers are likely to get an initially low fraction of their terminal
wages and face the prospect of the value of this benefit progressively
eroded by inflation. A minority of TRC staff that were officers in the
ZARC belong to the EARC pension scheme with externally held and managed
assets. This scheme was fully funded as of the date of dissolution of the
EARC. Although most of these officers continue to enjoy salaries that are
personal to them (outside of sad higher than the TRC or parastatal pay
scales), the effective value of their pension rights has been severely
eroded due to their subsequent incorporation into the national schemes
whose assets are local and locally managed and the returns on which have
been severely eroded by inflation.   The precarious post-retirement
financial prospect of all levels of workers in TRC has understandable and
adverse effects on the productivity of TRC's most experienced staff, whose
primary concerns as they approach retirement shifts towards outside
activities to accumulate income-generating assets rather than total
commitment to TRC work. To alleviate this problem, agreement was reached
with TRC during appraisal that an actuarial review of the schemes in which
TiC staff are members would be undertaken under the project. The review
vould assess the existing pension entitlement or terminal benefits of
various categories of workers under different scenarioa as to assets
yields, inflation and salaries, establish adequacy benchmarks for pensions,
recommend schemes (including criteria for eligibility) to be financed by
TRC to top up pensions to this benchmark and options for the management of
such schemes and -ovide an assessment of the cost to TRC of such schemes
over a defined period of time. The feasibility of funding an adequate top
up scheme would depend wholly on TRC's cash generating ability which in
turn is dependent on its operating efficiency.
3.37 Physical Work Znvironzsnts The physical working environment for
most TRC staff has deteriorated significantly over the last 14 years as the



- 45 -
basic maintenance of workplaces and the replacement of work tools and aids
has been neglected. In particular, stations all over the system which are
the basic place of work for most staff are very dilapidated. In remote
stations, away from the major urban centers and thus with no access to
electricity, few operating kerosene lamps, vital for effective trains
working as well as for office work are available. TRC main headquarters
buildings, listed as of significant historical interest, have progressively
fallen into a state of disrepair. The mortar of the walls of the buildings
is crumbling at an alarming rate. There is no locally available expertise
on determining the cause of and the most effective remedial action to stop
the deterioration. Lacking funds, TRC has resorted to simply covering up
the internal walls with timber cladding leaving the underlying structural
problems unattended. The replacement of working clothes and aids -
uniforms, rainsuits for outdoor staff, flags etc. - has fallen way behind
schedule, adding significantly to the demotivation of the workforce.
Functioning clocks, a vital tool for scheduled transportation operations,
are not present in the vast majority of stations and few station masters
and assistant station masters have or can afford reliable watches. There
is an acute shortage of rule books which provide the basis for adherence to
operating rules and safety practices on a uniform basis across the system.
The current rule book dates to EARC days, is written in English, which is
increasingly little understood by TRC staff, and needs updating and
rationalization and circulation to all staff. Finally, there is little
consciousness of occupational safety and health. As a consequence, TRC
workers, particularly in the workshops are exposed to significant health
hazards and do not enjoy the benefit of either training in occupational
safety and health or periodic medical checkups to effectively monitor work-
related ailments. During appraisal, agreement was reached with TRC that
the project would make provision for (a) the procurement of working clothes
and aida; (b) consulting services to determine an appropriate strategy for
preservation of historic buildings and inmediate remedial actions to arrest
the deterioration of such buildings; (c) technical assistance and medical
testing equipment to establish an effective occupational health and safety
capacity in TIC; and (d) technical assistance to rewrite the rule book in
English; and (e) the translation of the rule book into Swahili and its
printing and distribution in English.
D.   Cost Estimates and Project Financlng
Project Costs
3.38      The total project costs, including price and physical
contingencies and the refinancing of advances from the IDA PPF is estimated
at US$ 275.2 million with an estimated foreign cost of US$ 160.6 million or
about 58Z of total costs. A summary of the project costs is shown in Table
3.1 below. Detailed project costs are given in Annex 3-5. Taxes and
duties are expected to account for about 22 of total costs or about US$5.5
millioa equivalent. Price escalation of 4.9Z p.a., representing estimates
of increases in foreIgn costs based on the Bank's projections of the index
of wanufactures unit value (muv), has been applied to all costs. It is
assumed that domestic inflation higher than this estimate will be reflected
in changes in the exchange rate which is taken at TSh 194 to US$1 in this
report. The costs are estimated based on a 7 year implementation period,



- 46 -
which is consistent with the Bank experience of transport projects in
Tanzania and the region.
Table 3.1 Project Cost Estimates
(USS million equivalent)
Local    Foreign    Total      Z Foreign
Track Rehabilitation               50.5      24.8       75.3         32.9
Bridge Strengthening               13.1      1l.G       24.7         47.0
Quarry                              0.3       3.6        3.9         92.3
Plant Maintenance Depot             1.6       4.4        6.0         73.3
Locomotives Rehabilitation          0.8       8.4        9.2         91.3
Wagons                              0.9       4.9        5.8         84.5
Passenger Coaches                   1.0      10.1       11.1         91.0
Maintenance/Accident Equipment      1.4      14.4       15.8         91.1
Signals & Telecoms                  2.1       2.5        4.6         54.3
Service Vehicles                    0.5       4.7        5.2         90.4
Information Systems                 0.4       3.5        3.9         89.7
Technical Assistance                5.2      13.9       19.1         72.8
Training                            1.0       6.5        7.5         86.7
Organizational Support              1.0       2.5        3.5         71.4
Track Rehab Support                 2.1       0.9        3.0         30.0
Studies                             0.3       0.6        0.9         66.7
Total Base Costs                82.2     117.3     199.5
Physical Contingencies             12.3      17.4      29.7
Price Contingencies                20.1      25.9       46.0
114.6     160.6     275.2          58.4
C=Z=  G2Z"==m
3.39     The cost estimates have been derived on the following bases:
(a) track rehabilitations the base cost of track components - rail,
sleepers and ballast - are based on unit costs for such items experienced
by TRC under the EP; (b) workshop equipments recent quotations obtained for
similar equipment; {c) technical assistance: actual person-month rates for
technical assistance and consultancy services in TRC, adjusted as relevant
to take account of prevailing rates for similar services from other
geographical sources experienced bv railways in the region; (d) wagon
rehabilitations unit rates for general repairs based on TRC's experience
under the EP; (e) locomotive rehabilitation: costed estimates by TRC and
consultants provided by donors currently financing such programs.
E. Procurement
3.40           The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table
below:



- 47 -
Procurement Methods and Costs
(US$ million)
(Amounts in parentheses represent the amounts to be financed by IDA)
Procurement Method
Project Element                           ICB       LIB       Other     Total
Works
A.  Permanent Way                          --       --        40.0        40.0
(Quarries, Bridge Strengthening)
B.  Signals and Telecoms                  6.4       --         --         6.4
(3.5)                           (3.5)
Goods
A.   Track Materials                     34.8       --        70.9      105.7
(34.8)                          (34.8)
B.   Plant Maintenance Depot              6.2       --         2.2        8.4
(6.2)                           (6.2)
C.   Locomotives                                              12.0       12.0
D.   Rolling Stock                                            22.6       22.6
E.   Maintenance Equipment                --        --        22.3       22.3
F.   Service Vehicles                     4.6       -          2.7        7.3
(4.2)                           (4.2)
G.   Information Technology
and Software                         6.1                 --          6.1
(5.6)                           (5.6)
Services
A.  Technical/Operational                  --                 24.9       24.9
Assistance                                               (9.3)      (9.3)
B.  Training                              --        --         9.5        9.5
(8.3)      (8.3)
C.  Other                                 --        --        10.0       10.0
(4.1)      (4.1)
Total                             58.1      --       217.1       275.2
(54.3)     -        (21.7)      (76.0)



- 48 -
The procurement procedures for IDA-financed components will be as follows:
(a) Works: the rehabilitation of the telecommunications system on the Link
line will be awarded on contract under ICB following the Association's
guidelines; (b) Goods: the procurement of rails, sleepers and fasteners
will be o. the basis of ICB under the Association's guidelines.  Sleepers
and fasteners will be packaged as one lot whilst rails will be another lot.
Vehicles and information systems equipment, consisting of photo-copying
machines and computers, will be procured on the basis of ICB under the
Association's guidelines. Computers will be packaged as one lot as will be
photocopying machines. However, owing to the need for adequate domestic
back-up services for these goods, potential bidders will be limited to
firms already represented or willing to be represented in Tanzania.
Information systems software will be procured on the basis of contracts
awarded to software firms selected from a shortlist of firms with proven
experience and satisfactory performance in the supply or development of
specific application packages. The procurement of equipment for the plant
maintenance depot will be on the basis of ICB under the Association's
guidelines; all contracts for the supply of equipment will provide for the
associated installation and commissioning of the equipment by the supplier.
(c) Services: contracts for technical assistance for Management Development
Support and for Operational Support will be awarded in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants (1981) to the best evaluated firm
from a short list of firms comprised uf consulting firms with adequate
back-up in terms of expertise and personnel from operating railways;
specialists for institutional coordination and for project co-ordination
and monitoring will be recruited on an individual basis through
international advertising. Finally, the studies to be commissioned under
the project will be awarded to the best evaluated firms from a shortlist of
firms compiled for each study in accordance with the Bankls Guidelines.
The stuldies proposed are of limited scope and duration. Accordingly, it
would be economical to confine each shortlist to no more than three firms.
All procurement packages over US$400,000 equivalent would be subject to
IDA's prior review of procurement documentation. This would result in an
estimated coverage of 90Z of the value of all contracts. The balance of
the contracts would be subject to random post-review by IDA after contract
award. The procurement of items to be financed by the cofinanciers will be
in accordance with their own procurement procedures. The procurement
arrangements were confirmed with Government and TRC during negotiations.
F. Disbursements
3.41     The loan will be disbursed on the following basis: (i) 55Z of
total cost for works; (ii) 100l of foreign expenditures and 90Z of local
expenditures for goods; (iii) 902 of expenditures on technical assistance,
consulting services and training. All disbursement claims would be made
against standard documentation, except for disbursements for procurement of
goods and works costing less than US$50,000 which will be made against
statements of expenditures. In order to expedite disbursement of funds, a
special account with an initial deposit of US$4.5 million (equivalent to
about four months of estimated expenditures and the cost of refinancing the
advances from the PPF) will be established in foreign currency. The
special account will be replenished by IDA in accordance with procedures
agreed at negetiations. A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown at



- 49 -
Annex 3-6. The project ir )xpected to be completed by June 30, 1999 and
the Closing Date for the g ,dit is expected to be December 31, 1999.
G. Financing Plan
3.42            The proposed IDA credit of SDR 56.1 million (US$76.0 million,
equivalent) and the participation of the cofinanciers is expected to amount
to US$165.7 million or 607 of total project costs and 1002 of foreign
costs. The project is expected to be parallel-financed by CIDA. KfW. ODA,
the EDP?, WP and the AfDB. All the cofinanciers (except for the VIP) are
participants in the EP and are expected to continue their assistance in the
areas in which they are currently active. The finacing plan for the
project is shown in Table 3.2 and was confirmed vith Government during
negotiations (para 6.04 (ix)).
Table 3.2 FinancinRg Plan
(US$ Million)
NBMA                          C0 cm     IDam        kw        MA         VW      TOTAL    i_w
T..ci fthbilit.ati      70.0      14.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      no.?       106.1
W.dg..                  18.6       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       1S.2       -         0.0       U6.S      84.6
iAre 0.6                           0.0        0.0       6.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        a.'       8.8
MM.. fimetm       ew     2.2       6.2        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.4       6.4
Cie" 0D       0.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        4.?       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       6.1        8.1
CI7'  44      0.2        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        1.0       0.0        0.0        1.0       1.8
clom          0.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       4.6        0.0       8.1        6.1
Woomo             ~~1.1      0.0       0.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        1.?       7.?
P.in..00 co0..          1.4       0.0       18.61      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       14.9      14.9
1,..& lbi*6. ftim        0.8       0.0        0.0       0.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        9.6       0.8
wDkoe b.pmt,             8.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       10.0       10.6
fteldu,tUI. Rol t imp    0.i       0.0        0.0       9.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        2.2       2.2
0l.i. "d 1.I.co          9.9       81.6       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        S.d       0.4
VW10.In  Rue             0.4       4.2        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        64.       4.6
WiI*inv IftolI           0.2       0.0        0.0       9.8        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        9.?       2.?
Or.;. UqaIg,m            0.6       4.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        8.4       8.4
baOh . Vow, 6..ovf       *.6       8.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.?       0.0        0.6       9.8
000"Al". OMuw*           0.6       0.0        1.6       0.0        8.0       0.0       0.6        9.8       0.0       13.0       U.0
Fl.. b.igl UBofot        0.4       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.90      0.0        1.0       3.0
An*" b..I..t5a.          0.1       0.?        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.6
SW.4 T,mewe              0.6       0.?        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        1.0       1.0
0pw.tmt"O ftws           1.4       8.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        4.9       4.9
fee& NOW. 0weour         0.9       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       6.6        4.0       4.0
TfaieIau 1Sg.8           0.0       0.?        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.?       0.?
Obdoe ?,oi.I.e           0.8       6.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        6.9       0.9
b..i.I.fe  C..,...       0.0       0.?        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        1.0       1.8
8Cm.dM*6^8/F.Si1V       0.0       1.8        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        1.0       4.8
84.41.s                  0.8       0.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.9       0.9
TOW.      10.6       74.8       81.9      18.        10.6       0.0       16.6       6.6       0.8       678.     378.?I
NBefo:M  PWF                    1.8
T ,                         Va.0 



- 50 -
3.43     The recent pattern of financing of rehabilitation expenditures has
been for donors to finance the cost of materials and expatriate labor
directly, treating the value of the expenditure as a grant to both
Government and TRC. Since the costs of rehabilitation are not borne by it,
TRC has felt little financial pressure to use these rehabilitated assets
effectively or to price its services to cover their cost. Such financing
has also effectively absolved TRC of the responsibility for ensuring that
rehabilitations are undertaken on a cost effective basis. With a tariff
structure that provides for adequate recovery of TRC's costs under
efficient operations, TRC should be sufficiently cash generative throughout
the project period (except for the first year) to finance all project-
related local costs and the local currency equivalent of all project
foreign costs for the rectification of the backlog of assets maintenance,
technical assistance and training. To ensure that TRC covers as much of
the project rehabilitation costs as is consistent with its cash generating
capacity whilst improving its financial position and that it enjoys no
implicit subsidy on the project expenditures, agreement was reached with
Government during negotiations that the financing terms for the project
would be as follows (para 6.01 (xi)):
(a)   IDA-Financed Expenditures: to be on-lent to TRC at a fixed
rate of 112 for 20 years, including five years of grace,
with TRC assuming the foreign exchange risk;
(b)   Donor-Financed Fixed Assets: (i) to be on-lent to TRC on the
same terms as the IDA Credit; or (ii) if this is not
consistent with the donor's policies, to be provided as
Government equity in TRC;
(c)   Donor-Financing of Other Project Expenditures: (i) the value
of the expenditure to be reimbursable to Government in local
currency by TRC; or (ii) if this is not consistent with the
donor's policies, to be on-lent to TRC on the same terms as
the IDA Credit; or (iii) if this is further not consistent
with the donor's policies, to be provided as Government
equity in TRC.
Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and TRC
covering the above on-lending terms for the IDA Credit will be a condition
of effectiveness (para 6.02 (iv)). To complement this financing policy,
agreement was reached with Government and TRC during the negotiations that
all expenditures by TRC on technical assistance, training and all
expenditures related to the rectification of the backlog of deferred
maintenance (rehabilitation expenditures) would be explicitly disclosed in
its financial statements.
B. Pro1ect Implementation
3.44     The implementation strategy for the project is detailed in para
3.23 and was agreed with TRC during appr6isal. Under this strategy TRC
would be responsible for the execution of the project with external
assistance contracted on a sub-project by sub-project basis. This is an
improved version, building on recent experience, of an approach to



- 51 -
implementation that has worked satisfactorily in TRC. TRC has had
experience in implementing IDA-financed technical assistance and consulting
services but none with IDA-financed goods or works. However, delays in
implementation of these programs were encountered due to problems in
meeting IDA requirements, specifically, the rules relating to selection
criteria and procedures. The financial regulations governing TRC
operations grant it considerable flexibility in meeting the procurement
rules of IDA and the donors and there are no limits of authority with
respect to the size of contracts for which awards may be made by TRC's
management or Board. The problem of lack of familiarity with IDA
procurement procedures will be addressed through specific training seminars
prior to Credit Effectiveness for selected TRC staff including the staff of
the office responsible for overall monitoring of the rehabilitation
programs. As a result of the recent extensive involvement of IDA in the
sector, a considerable degree of familiarity with IDA's procurement and
disbursement policies has been developed in the sector ministries. Use of
this capacity will be explored as an effective and more accessible means of
providing assistance to TRC in building up its own capacity to implement
IDA procedures. To be able to take timely action to ensure that the
project achieves its objectives, during negotiations, agreement was reached
with Government and TRC, that, no later than December 31, 1993, TRC would
undertake in conjunction with Government and IDA a mid-term review of the
progress of the project (para 6.01 (xii)). Prior to such review, TRC shall
prepare a report focussing on the following principal issuess (a) the
achievement of the operational efficiency improvement objectives of the
project; (b) the financial performance of TRC since the start of the
project; (c) the operation of the MoU; (d) progress in physical project
implementation relative to both physical and cost targets and expectations;
and (e) the success of the institutional development components of the
project. The review would recommend desirable changes in project content
or management which TRC would subsequently be expected to implement.
I. Reporting and Monitoring
3.45     During appraisal, agreement was reached on an outline framework
for reporting on the physical progress of project components under
implementation and on periodic operating and financial performance. These
would be developed prior to Credit effectiveness by the project monitoring
staff. A framework for quarterly reporting on physical -roject progress is
already in place under the EP. However, reporting on operating and
financial performance is weak due to the inadequacies of operating and
financial information systems which, as currently structured, permit
compilation of reports only with considerable time lags. During appraisal,
agreement was reached with TRC that consultants would be engaged to assist
TRC in redesigning its systems and processes for collection, tabulation and
dissemination of statistics pertinent to its operations. These consultants
have already been selected and have commenced work. Completion of this
task, which was a part of the action plans to be prepared for phase 2 of
the OIP, is a condition of effectiveness.
3.46     As part of the program of action under the EP, TRC has eliminated
the backlog of overdue annual financial accounts which at the start of the
EP had accumulated to four years. Final accounts are now produced within



- 52 -
four to five months of the financial year-end. TRC's annual accounts are
audited by the Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC), The quality of the audit
is good. However, TAC is overtaxed with its responsibility for audit of
most parastatals. Audited annual accounts cannot be produced within six
months of TRC's financial year-end without a further reduction in the time
for closing the accounts and producing final accounts or reducing the time
for audits. Reducing the time taken for the annual audit of TRC's
financial statement will be infeasible given the workload managed by TAC.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government and TRC that
annual audited accounts will be prepared and submitted to IDA within six
months of the TRC's financial year-end (para 6.01 (xiii)). To this end,
agreement was reached with Government and TRC that TRC and TAC would take
whatever measures are necessary to ensure that TRC's audited accounts are
made available to IDA within this time-frame, including, inter alia, change
in the audit procedures employed, subcontracting of other TAC audits or
subcontracting of the TRC audit to other independent firms of auditors.
J. Environmental Impact, Industrial Health and Safety
3.47     There are two issues of significant environmental concern in TRCs
(a) the remedial actions to be taken to relieve flooding in sections of the
system without shifting flood hazards to contiguous areas; and (b) the use
of toxic chemical compounds and the satisfactory disposal of used oil.
Floods: TRC's operations are subject to severe disruptions during the rainy
season by floods and the consequent inundation of embankments and the
overflowing of bridges. The problem is most severe in the Luiche river
basin and Lake Sagara area, around Kigoma and on the Mpanda branch line.
This area covers the Ugalla Games Park. Under the project, some bridges in
this area would be rehabilitated. However, aside from the technical
concern of the likely incidence of flooding and its impact on bridge
design, there is the implication of any bridge design for the passage of
flood waters and the shifting of flood hazard. With the assistance of KfW,
TRC has commissioned consultants to undertake a detailed hydrological study
of waterways on the system, the likely incidence and pattern of floods, the
implications of such projected flood patterns for the design of the bridges
to be rehabilitated and any environmental implications of such designs.
The consultants' findings indicates that no adverse environmental impact in
the form of the shifting of flood hazard is anticipated from the bridges
work. In the Luiche area, widening of the opening of the existing bridge
over the River Luiche would reduce the incidence of overflowing of the
bridge, whilst not having a significant flood shifting effect. On Lake
Sagara, TRC proposes to raise the embankment of the section of the Mpanda
line most vulnerable to flooding. The consultants review of this proposed
work does not indicate any adverse environmental impact. KfW, who are
expected to fund the bridges rehabilitation component of the project, have
indicated to IDA that they will review the final designs for each bridge in
ecologically sensitive or flood-prone areas to ensure that no adverse
environmental effects arise from the rehabilitation program. The results
of these reviews will be made available to IDA as part of the well-
established cooperative arrangements for supervising TRC Donor Group
project activities.



- 53 -
3.48     Chemical Compounds and Used Oils TRC currently uses coolant with
chromate-based compounds in its locomotives. There are no set procedures
for the disposal of such compounds. Chromate is a health hazard. During
appraisal, IDA was informed that with CIDA's assistance, TRC has begun a
program of using an environmentally safe substitute (Nalcool) as an engine
additive for the Canadian-supported fleet of locomotives. Confirmation of
the use by TRC of an environmentally sound compound as the standard engine
coolant for all of its locomotive fleet was obtained from TRC during
negotiations. The current practice for the disposal of used oil is
environmentally unacceptable. TRC sells used oil to the general public for
reuse as a coagulant in stagnant water to inhibit the breeding of
mosquitoes. There is no available third party recycling facility for its
used oil. Accordingly, the installation of a used-oil reclamation plant in
TRC has been provided for under the project. TRC does not currently use
chemicals to control the growth of weeds on the track. However, it is
encountering increasing difficulties in controlling such growth through
highly labor intensive methods. As a result, TRC proposes to use a
herbicide for weed control. The proposed herbicide is "Roundup*
(containing the equivalent of 360 grams/litre of glyphosate). This
herbicide is environmentally acceptable. Benzene is used routinely for
cleaning material in the workshops and for hand-cleaning by TRC's workshops
staff. Benzene is increasingly recognized as a health hazard. TRC was
unaware of the health hazards of continued exposure to benzene and has
undertaken to discontinue its use as a hands cleaning compound. Readily
available degreasers would be used in its place for hands cleaning whilst
gloves will be provided to workers in contact with benzene for the cleaning
of components.
3.49     In general, occupational health and safety awareness in TRC is
poor. There is one routine medical check-up for acceptance into service
but no subsequent follow-up, even of workers exposed to high levels of
noise or toxic substances in workshops. There is sporadic and inadequate
provision of safety or protective clothing and equipment and there is no
organized safety training effort. To address this issue of an absence of
adequate consciousness of occupational safety and health in the
organization, specific provision has been made in the project for technical
assistance and equipment to establish an effective occupational health and
safety capacity in TRC (para 3.37). A medical and welfare unit currently
exists in TRC's manpower department but its major pre-occupation has been
with attempting to expand the number of clinics on the system rather than
addressing the specific sources of risk to the health of workers arising
from their conditions of work.



- 54 -
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
4.01     The historical financial performance of TRC is presented in
Chapter II.
A. Financial Recovery Strately and Projections
4.02     TRC represents a substantial investment in poorly performing
railways assets, both operationally and financially. At currently
prevailing prices, the estimated value of TRC's physical asset base on a
gross replacement cost basis is about US$ 550 million, divided equally
between infrastructure and operating assets. The amount of outstanding
debt related to the acquisition of its existing assets (after substantial
assumptions of debt by Government) is currently about US$72 million
equivalent whilst the present value of the future replacement costs of its
operational assets as they reach the end of their useful lives is estimated
at about US$76 million. An additional US$156 million (at present prices)
needs to be spent to make good the accumulated deferral of maintenance on
infrastructure and operating assets and avoid their premature replacement.
In addition to its railways assets, TRC has substantial investments in land
and residential properties. TRC's non-operational landholdings in Dar es
Salaam and the other major cities have been conservatively valued at US$77
million whilst its buildings, mainly residential structures in the center
of Dar es Salaam, are worth an estimated US$36 million on an open market
basis. This investment in real property currently makes no contribution to
TRC's financial performance.
4.03     During appraisal, agreement was reached with Government that as
part of the explicit statement of objectives to be contained in the MOU,
TRC would be set specific targets of return on its capital employed. The
goal of such targets is to ensure that TRC progressively utilizes its
assets and prices its services such as to generate an adequate level of
free cash flow to meet its existing debt service obligations, finance the
costs related to the rehabilitation of its existing assets and their future
replacement, and provide a return to Government on its equity investment.
To meet this self-financing goal, TRC would need to earn a rate of return
of at least 15Z on its total capital employed (valued on a historic cost
basis) between 1992 and 1994 and at least 202 from 1995 onwards, assuming
progressive improvements in its operating performance. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that TRC be set these
target rates of return on its total capital employed as its primary
financial objecttve (para 6.01 (xiv)). These rates would be subject to
annual review and change after consultation with IDA. In addition, TRC's
property assets which are not required for operational purposes,
specifically its landholdings, could contribute significantly to
strengthening its financial position if they are exploited in a commercial
manner. To this end, during negotiations, agreement was with Government
and TRC that, no later than January 31, 1992, TRC shall prepare a policy,
satisfactory to IDA, on the commercial use of its surplus land (para 6.01
(xv)).



- 55 -
Restructuring Actions
4.04     For TRC to be able to achieve the returns on its assets that are
consistent with its long-term capacity to be self-financing, TRC and
Government must implement a number of actions within a coherent framework.
These actions would cover the following areas:
(i)   Efficient Operations; The inefficiency of current operations
constrains the utilization of capacity, reduces the revenue
generating potential of TRC and increases the unit cost of TRC
operations. Improved operating practices will have a number of
effects on TRC's financial performance. Firstly, with its current
assets base, TRC can double its freight traffic, which at current
unit contribution margins (prior to the March 1991 tariff
increases) would provide an additional contribution to fixed and
financing costs of an estimated TSh 2.0 billion, enough to
eliminate its operating loss. Secondly, improved operations can
improve TRC's contribution margins by improving variable costs per
unit of service provided through running fewer trains for a given
volume of traffic thereby reducing running and maintenance costs.
Finally, efficient operations reduce the need for premature
replacement of assets as well as the quantity of assets required
to do a given amount of service.
(ii) Fixed Cost Reduction: TRC's complement of labor is significantly
larger than is warranted by its scale of operations. Reductions
in staffing to levels commensurate with the scale of TRC
operations and improvements in efficiency are an integral part of
any program of financial recovery. However, significant direct
cost savings are not envisaged from such a program. Rather,
savings generated from such a program should go towards financing
increases in the remuneration of retained staff to a level
consistent with expectations of good performance.
(iii) Tariff Increases: For TRC to be able to meet its financial goal.
the level of tariffs must be sufficient to enable it to meet its
total costs (including the annualized cost of future assets
replacements) at efficient operating levels. Based on the
financial evaluation of the project, TRC would need to take three
sets of actions with respect to its tariff levels to enable it to
earn an acceptable return on its assets. Firstly, the increase in
its operating costs since the tariff increase of June 1989 must be
made good. Secondly, tariffs would need to be increased in real
terms to provide adequate coverage of its existing debt service,
the debt service related to the investments required to support
restoration of efficient operations and adequate capacity
utilization and provision for the cost of replacing its assets and
maintaining its operating capacity. Thirdly, TRC's tariffs need
to be protected against future erosion by inflation. Government
approved tariff increases of 25X for freight traffic in October,
1990 to compensate in part for inflation since the tariff increase
of June 1990. A further increase in freight tariffs of 7CZ to
start addressing the structural imbalance in TRC tariffs was
approved by Government in March 1991.  TRC now requires an



- 56 -
additional tariff increase of 80S to enable it to cover its total
projected costs at efficient operating levels. TRC will remain
very competitive after these proposed tariff increases.
Currently, TRC's tariffs for a wagon load movement of 40 tonnes of
general cargo over a distance of 800 km is TSh 184,000 compared to
about TSh 700,000 (and up to TSh 1,000,000) for movement of a
similarly sized consignment by road. Movements of comparable
goods for similar distances on TAZARA cost about TSh 500,000. A
byproduct of the huge differentials in transport costs between TRC
and truckers operating on similar routes is the existence of an
active secondary market for wagon allocations (TRC now has
adequately effective, albeit administrative, procedures in place
to stem this trade in the absence of a price mechanism to
eliminate this unwarranted rent). Increasing TRC tariffs by a
cumulative total of about 2002, as proposed, would still leave
existing trucking rates at least twice as expensive as rail
transport and provide TRC with a sufficient cushion against
reductions in trucking rates as the country's road network and
trucking supply capacity are improved. To prevent TRC from
incurring losses that would need to be financed from additional
borrowings or covered by subsidized project financing and to
restore its tariffs to full efficient-costs recovery levels,
agreement was reached with Government and TRC during negotiations
that the implementation of a further cumulative structural tariff
increase of 80Z would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness (para
6.02 (v)). With these tariff increases and assuming achievement
of the operating performance objectives, TRC's major pricing focus
would be on offsetting the impact of inflation and foreign
currency fluctuations on its cost structure (an estimated 70? of
its costs is represented by imported inputs including the
annualized cost of replacement investments) and adjusting tariffs
on specific movements for competitive reasons. Consequent to the
issue of the Ministerial Directive and the execution of the MoU,
TRC now has a clear mandate to make such decisions as it considers
them to be commercially appropriate.
(iv) Capital Structures TRC does not have a defined strategy guiding
its capital structure. Investments are financed predominantly by
debt, part of which is capitalised periodically to ease its debt
service and liquidity problem. Equity represents the initial
liability of TRC to Government on account of assets transferred to
TRC from the EARC as eroded by subsequent losses and increased by
the capitalization of debt. There is no notion of an expected
return on either debt or equity, a reflection of the past lack of
a defined financial objective and the expectation that investments
would always be financed by some external party irrespective of
the performance of the corporation. Currently, TRC's capital
structure is virtually wholly debt, which now comprises about 100?
of its total assets (including deferred foreign exchange losses).
However, the debt is highly concessional with a weighted interest
cost of about 2.5Z. With a mix of efficient operations and the
tariff increases and policies proposed (para 4.05 (iii)), TRC's
cash generation would be adequate to cover its working capital
requirements, the cost of project expenditures to make good the



- 57 -
deferral of assets maintenance and strengthen its managerial
capacity and its debt service obligations in all, but the first,
project years (para 4.06). It would also generate a level of cash
from its operations that is consistent with an ability to
comfortably finance major assets replacements as they arise. By
this measure, TRC is well within its debt capacity notwithstanding
its current high financial leverage. However, to be prudent and
provide it with a debt service cushion in the early years of
project implementation, capitalization of debt associated with
past but unproductive investcents may be justified. This
capitalization could be subsequently refinanced, in effect, by
earlier and larger dividend payments. One loan that could be
partially or wholly capitalised for such purpose has been
identified by TRC and Government has undertaken to do so. There
is no justification for capitalizations beyond this level.
(v)   Investments: The proposed investments under the project represent
all the major investments planned for the next seven years and are
closely tied to a clearly defined strategy to enhance the
utilization of TRC's existing assets and make it a financially
self-sustaining,entity. To avoid imprudent investments that will
not contribute to the strategy's goals, agreement was reached with
Government and TRC on an annual investment review mechanism
between IDA and TRC and on consultation with IDA before TRC
implements any proposed investment costing in excess of an
aggregate of US$2.0 million equivalent (paras 2.38 and 6.01 (v)).
(vi)  Working Capital Management: TRC has a policy of providing service
only on the basis of payments being made in advance of performance
of the service. This policy which would minimize its investment
in working capital has not been implemented in practice. As a
result, accounts receivables have ballooned to the point where as
of its 1990 financial year-end they represented over 452 of annual
revenues (168 days of revenues) with most of it being obligations
of major parastatals and government departments, a major transit
traffic forwarding and clearing agency based in Tanzania and
Uganda transit traffic customers. This level of investment in
accounts receivables represents an additional cost of doing
business that TRC can ill-afford and which cannot be offset by TRC
stretching out payments on its obligations to its suppliers.
Since the 1990 year-end, TRC has made a concerted effort to impose
its stated policy for the provision of service and has reduced the
level of receivables outstanding from domestically-based customers
to about 20 days. The overall level of accounts receivables is
still high however, reflecting amoants outstanding from Uganda
customers which are blocked by Uganda Railways to offset a large
and disputed level of indebtedness to it by TRC for hire of
locomotives and wagons. This dispute is being resolved with
satisfactory progress. To ensure that TRC's accounts receivables
are reduced to and maintained at an acceptable level, agreement
was reacb|d with Government and TRC during negotiations that TRC
(a) shall maintain its accounts receivables at a level no greater
than 45 days of annual revenues until completion of the project;



- 58 -
and (b) shall furnish semi-annually to IDA an aged analysis of its
accounts receivable (para 6.01 (xvi)).
(vii) Marketing: An average cost analysis for railways freight transport
and trucking undertaken by the appraisal mission and TRC staff
suggests that at iti 1989 cost structure, TRC's unit cost of
freight transport were lower than those for trucking only at
distances greater than 1100 km. With the improverl efficiency of
operations envisaged under the project, the cut-off point for
lower railways transport cost will be approximately 500 kms. An
analysis of traffic on offer in 1989 also suggests that about 75?
of traffic was greater than 500 kms. Although TRC should continue
to cater to traffic at all distances as long as its tariffs at
such distances provides a contribution to its fixed cost and it
has capacity to do so, increasingly its focus should be on
granting priority to long-distance traffic where it has a
competitive edge and where it can generate greater volumes of
traffic. The appropriate selection of markets to serve would
become even more important for TRC as improvements in the roads
network undercut TRC's cost competitive edge notwithstanding the
existing huge differentials in rates between trucking and rail
transport. This would be a change from its present pattern of
operations where a disproportionate amount of resources is devoted
to running short pick-up trains on short distances. Also for a
s9.gnificant proportion of the longer distance traffic (cotton.
transit traffic, coffee, oil products), a few customers account
for the major part of traffic. This creates a favorable
competitive basis for TRC to negotiate risk sharing arrangements
whereby certain customers can assume the financial risk of
ownership of major classes of assets (such as wagons) in return
for enhanced quality of service. These arrangements are already
planned for oil products and should be extended to other areas.
These strategies based on analysis of the structure of its markets
could conciderably reinforce TRC's competitive position and its
profitability.
Projected Financial Performance
4.05     The impact of the restructuring actions on TRC's future financial
performance is summarized in the table below and detailed in Annex 4-3.
The financial projections are in 1989 Tanzania Shillings. It is assumed
that freight tariffs are raised by 70X at the end of the first quarter of
1991 and by a further 80? by the end of 1991, representing structural
increases in overall tariffs to meet the proposed financial objectives of
TRC. Tariffs are thereafter maintained in real terms throughout the
period. The projections of demand for rail transport are detailed in Annex
4-1. The projected freight capacity of the system under different
efficiency and investment scenarios are detailed in Annex 4-2. For the
projections, it is assumed that all improvements - ranging from the
introduction of block trains to enhanced locomotive and wagon availability
- are successfully e-.ecuted as planned. As a consequence, TRC's share of
the assessed traffic on offer increases from 652 (1.1 million tonnes out of
1.8 million tonnes) of such traffic in 1991 to 922 (1.9 million tonnes out



- 59 -
of 2.1 million tonnes) by 1994. TRC is assumed to capture all traffic on
offer (2.2 million tonnes) in 1995 and onwards. The projections also
assume that an adequate level of current maintenance of assets is
undertaken and accounted for in the ,inancial statements.
4.06     As shown in the table below, TRC's financial performance will be
radically transformed by full implementation of the turnaround program.
TRC's operating income breakeven level from 1992, when the structural
tariff increases are assumed to be fully implemented and excluding project
expenditures of a recurrent nature, is approximately 530 million net
tonnes-km or 0.5 million tonnes of traffic at its average haul. This is
the same level as in 1989. The static breakeven level reflects the fact
that current maintenance expenditures are assumed to be increased by a
greater rate in real terms than the tariff increases thereby eroding the
unit contribution rate. However, with the greater absolute level of unit
contribution margins and double to triple the incremental traffic level
over the breakeven level from 1992 onwards as compared to 1989, TRC is
sufficiently cash generative to meet its operating and financial costs,
finance all local costs and much of the recurrent foreign expenditure costs
of the project out of its cashflows, pay substantial dividends to
Government and accumulate large cash balances. Subsequent to the proposed
revaluation, TRC's depreciation charges will increase by an estimated TSh
3.0 billion and its net income will fall by a corresponding amount.
Nonetheless, a substantial level of dividends can still be paid without
impairing TRC's financial viability. However, as TRC improves the benefits
to its workforce through further enhanced wages and pension benefits,
dividend payments would have to be reduced. The financial projections also
indicate that the financial leverage of TRC will unwind rapidly from 92? in
1989 to about 50? from 1993 onwards. It is expected to fall further
consequent on the proposed revaluation of its assets. Finally, as the
table above indicates, TRC would need to generate a gross cashflow of about
TSh 9.0 billion between 1993 and 1995 to cover the projected total claims
on its cash generation. At its contribution margin rate of 751 for the
railways service and fixed costs of about Tsh 4.0 to 5.0 billion p.a., TRC
would need a traffic level of aruund 1.5 million tonnes at its avezage haul
to be financially solvent during this period. If traffic falls below this
level, TRC would need to finance a greater proportion of the project's
foreign recurrent costs (expenditures to rectify the accumulated backlog of
maintenance) out of borrowings rather than its cashflows. In practical
terms, this would mean a reduction in the short-term cash transfers from
TIC to Government for reimbursement of donor-financed expenditures rather
than TRC recourse to the domestic banking system.



- 60 -
TRCs Projected Financial Performance
(TSh Million)
1991     1992    1993     1994    1995    1998
Revenues:
Rail                     9580    16836   20551    22844   25557   25557
Other                    1057      582      582      582     582     582
Total                   10637    17418   21133    23426   26139   .6139
Contribution Margins:       6337    12803   16199    18002   20169   20169
Fixed Costs                 3704      4077    4379     4676    4940    5260
lincl. Depreciation)
Recurrent Operating
Income            2633     8726   11820    13326   15229   14909
Gross Cashflow from
Recurrent Operations        2819     8955   12364    14193   16339   16339
Claims on Gross Cashflowt
1. Working Capital
Requirements         (2830)     602   (1438)    (310)   (169)    139
2. Project Expenditures (foreign costs)
for training, support
activities and rectifi-
cation of maintenance
backlog                  (271)   (1806)  (4273)   (4085)  (2835)   (592)
3. Claims 2 Debt-financed    --       580    2094      2366    2235     575
3. Local Project Costs       (86)   (1081)  (4221)   (4776)  (4726)  (1342)
4. Existing Debt Service   (1049)   (1018)   (986)    (954)   (922)   (467)
5. Project Debt Service      --       --      (147)    (756)  (1444)  (3161)
Total Claims               (4263)   (2723)  (8971)   ,8515)  (7861)  (4848)
Available Cashflow          (1417)    6232    3393     5678    8478   11491
from Operations
Dividends                    --        --     1197     1534    3062    6872
------------------------------------------
Net Income                  1033     4623    1996      2557    5103    9164
Return on Total Capital
Employed (Z)                  18        37      16       16      20      24



- 61 -
B. Passenger Service
4.07     In 1989, TRC carried 2.3 million passengers, well below the 1983
peak of 3.1 million passengers. The drop in volume was caused by (a) a
deteriorating coach fleet; (b) the reallocation of locomotives from
passenger service to freight; and (c) poor track conditions, leading to
speed restrictions and underutilization of the existing fleet.
4.08     To return passenger service to an acceptable standard, two actions
need to be taken. First, out of the existing fleet of 127 coaches, 100
should be rehabilitated, and the remaining 27 replaced. Second, motive
power equivalent to two new Class 87 locomotives needs to be provided.
Such a program should, in combination with the track rehabilitation
program, make it possible for TRC to double its passenger volume. However,
the increased traffic will not translate one for one into revenues as
overcrowding, with current coach occupancy rates well over lOO, is likely
to fall. The resulting passenger level is estimated at 4.3 million. The
financial impact of the project is summarized in the table below.
TRC: Projected Financial Performance of Passenger Services
Without project          With project
(Tsh millions)
Revenue                                    935                     1777
Passenger specific costs:
- Variable operating cost                  607                     1195
- Fixed operating costs                    252                      345
- Capital replacement charge               461                      966
- Contribution to TRC's
fixed costs                             (385)                   (384)
Break-even tariff increase, S               41                      22
Passenger carried, millions                2.2                     4.3
4.10     In the financial evaluation above, passenger service is treated as
a joint-product with only specific costs allocated to it. This implies
that freight should, for example, receive prioiity over passenger service
in a case of locomotive scarcity. In addition, TRC must be allowed to
cover specific passenger costs. Based on the analysis above, present
passenger fares would need to be increased by about 41? in real terms for
the service to generate sufficient revenues to cover all its specific costs
at current traffic levels and with existing assets. The unit passenger
fare increase required will be halved to 22Z if passenger volumes are
doubled with expanded frequency of servico that is possible with the
investment proposed under this project. the fares increases for passenger
services already approved by Government are adequate to ensure full
recovery of the avoidable costs of passenger services (para 2.26).



- 62 -
V.  ECONOIQC EVALUATION
A. Prolect Benefits and Costs
5.01     The main benefits of the project are increases in the effective
capacity of TRC and reduction in its unit variable cost of transport
(assuming aa adequate capacity-sustaining maintenance program is
implemented, with or without the project). The forecast of traffic on
offer to the railways and its composition is detailed in Annex 4-1. TRC's
projected effective freight capacity witi. implementation of the project is
summarized in Annex 4-2 and contrasted to the traffic on offer in Annex 4-
1. TRC's effective capacity to handle traffic increases pragressively from
65Z of the traffic on offer in 1991 to 1001 in l995. Withnoit the project
and the increase in TRC's effective capacity, the incremental traffic
projected for TRC with the project would be diverted to road transport,
continue to go by road (as is the current case for some traffic offered TRC
but which it cannot carry due to restrictions on its capacity) or not be
moved at all. In the cases of continued use of road transport or diversion
of traffic to roads, the economic cost to the economy of not undertaking
the project is the economic cost of road transport. In the case of traffic
not moved at all in the absence of available rail capacity, it is assumed
that the economic cost to the country of lost or spoiled production is
greater than the additional road transport costs of moving it.
Accordingly, the cost to the economy of lost or spoiled production is taken
as the economic cost of road transport as well. For purposes of the
economic evaluation and taking into account the recent performance of TRC
in implementing programs to improve its effective utilization of its
assets, it is assumed that the traffic carried by it is capped at 1.5
million tonnes, rising from 1.18 million tonnes in the first project year
to this level in the fifth year of project implementation. This is
consistent with assuming that either the traffic is not available or that
the full availability and utilization targets of the OIP will not be
realized. The latter case is equivalent to assuming that although the full
range of project investments are implemented, no material benefits are
derived from the institutional components (see Annex 4-2, Scenario 4).
5.02     Witbhout the project, it is assumed that the investments already
planned by donors, but currently contingent on the successful outcome of
the credit negotiations between Government and IDA for the proposed
project, are implemented.  These investments cover mainly the locomotive
rehabilitation component of the proposed project and are continuations of
the programs begun under the BP. It is further assumed that the OIP
already initiated in the preparation for this project is continued but with
less success than under the comprehensive program planned under the
project. The program of investments to arrest the deterioration in the
condition of the track and replace obsolete equipment is assumed not to be
implemented. On this basis, it is projected that the effective capacity of
TRC would stay more or less constant at the current level (Annex 4-2,
Scenario 7). Under these circumstances, traffic not currently going by
rail would continue to be diverted to roads. Other plausible
counterfactuals that were considered are depicted in Annex 4-2.



_ 63 -
5.03     The economic cost of rail transport is based on the variable cost
of rail transport derived from the financial evaluation of the project with
the assessed foreign component of such costs shadow priced by a factor of
1.4. The assessed costs attributable to operation of the passenger
services are excluded from the analysis. These costs are estimated to be
about 302 of the shared resources (locomotives fuel and maintenance) and
351 of labor costs. To be conservative, although traffic is capped at 1.5
million for the purposes of the economic evaluation, it is assumed that the
costs of maintenance of locomotives are kept at levels consistent with
traffic levels increasing to 2.2 million tonnes by 1996. To compensate for
the additional handling costs entailed in rail transport for the movement
of most types of commodities compared to more direct truck routings, the
unit variable costs of rail transport have been increased by 20S. On these
bases, the variable economic cost of rail transport is estimated to decline
from TSh 4.6 per ntkm in 1991 to TSh 4.4 per ntkm after 1995. Details of
the derivation of railways operating costs are given in Annex 5-1.
5.04     Road transport costs are derived from NTC's truck operating costs
data for inter-regional (long-distance) movements in Tanzania and are
detailed in Annex 5-2. The road transport costs are based on a 30-tonne
truck-trailer combination which is incressingly typical of long distance
trucking operations in the country. All costs are net of taxes and duties,
with all underlying imported content of such costs shadow priced by a
factor of 1.4. In view of the ongoing comprehensive efforts to improve the
condition of the roads in Tanzania under the Integrated Roads Project, it
is assumed that truck operating costs will decline from 1994 as a combined
result of the impact of improved roads on the life of tires, reduced
maintenance costs and higher vehicle utilization. To be conservative, no
account has been taken of damage cost to roads by trucks. The economic
cost of road transport (operating and capital) is estimated at TSh 12.0 per
ntkm between 1991 and 1993, declining to TSh 11.4 from 1994 onwards. The
differential in rail and road costs is TSh 7.4 per ntkm in 1991 falling to
TSh 7.0 per ntkm from 1995 and onwards.
5.05     The investment costs used in the economic evaluation are the costs
of all project components net of the costs of investment which it is
assumed will be undertaken in the absence of the project (Annex 5-3) and of
the passenger services component. No corresponding benefits have been
taken for the investment in coaching stock rehabilitation and replacement.
B. Economic Returns
5.06     The economic returns to the project, based on the above
methodology, are summarized in the table below and are detailed, for the
base case, in Annex _:-4.
Proiect Economic Returns
Economic Rate of Return Net Present Value (10X)
(X)                 (TSh million)
Base Case                              18                       10892



- 64 -
The base case economic rate of return (ERR) to the project is satisfactory
at 19X. To test for the robustness of the economic returns, an analysis
was undertaken of the extent to which the key variables identified in the
sensitivity analyses above would need to deteriorate before the project
yields an ERR of 10X. The results of this analysis of the circumstances
under which the project switches from being economically viable to unviable
are shown in the table below:
Switching Values of Key Variables
Traffic Growth (? of Base)                                69?
Road/Rail Savings (2 of Base)                             72?
Project Costs (? of Base)                                140?
The analysis of the project's switching value indicates that the project
economic returns are sensitive to feasible downturns or lack of growth in
traffic and erosion in the cost competitiveness of railways vis-a-vis
trucking. These risks are explored in greater detail below.
C. Project Risks
5.07     The main risks faced by the project are (a) operational: the risk
that management may not be able to meet the performance objectives of the
OIP; (b) business environment: the risk that traffic may not materialize as
projected, and (c) physical project implementation: the risk that project
completion and benefits may be delayed or cost over-runs may be
encountered.
5.08           Operational Risk: The major operational risk is that TRC
management may not be able to plan and control its operations such as to
achieve the target rates of utilization of its locomotives and wagons and
the associated projected increases in its effective capacity. The
effective capacity projections used in the analysis are reasonably
conservative and assume that TRC achieves (i) only 75? of the locomotive
availability targets of the OIP; (ii) 50? of the block trains planned under
the OIP; and (iii) 90? of the locomotive utilization targets. Nonetheless,
these targets are still significantly more than TRC is currently achieving
notwithstanding its relatively successful implementation of the first phase
of the OIP. The switching value analysis indicates that the threshold for
viability of the project is 1.3 million tonnes of traffic achieved from the
fifth year of project implementation or a decline in the traffic figure
used in the analysis of 13?. The risks that TRC management may perform
worse than implied by this traffic level is substantial. To mitigate this
risk, improvements on TRC's current performance would require not only
extensive assistance to TIC in putting in place technical systems to help
manage operations but also substantial pressure on and powers to its
managers to manage effectively. A key objective of the project is to
achieve this mix of managerial accountability and power.
5.09           Business Environment: The key business risk facing the
project is the likelihood that traffic on offer, as opposed to TRC's
effective capacity, may be less than forecast. The demand for rail
transport depends on three key elements: (a) growth in production of bulky



- 65 -
commodities like cement and cotton; (b) TRC's competitive position vie-a-
vis trucking; and (c) the rustainability of the economic recovery in
Tanzania and the development of the general economy in bordering states.
As the switching value analysis shows. however, TRC needs additional
traffic of 0.4 million tonnes before the project becomes viable. About 80S
of this required incremental t,nnage is currently on offer from the oil and
cement industry but cannot be accepted by TRC because of existing
restrictions on its capacity. Nonetheless, TIC would need to strengthen its
capacity to offer a reliable and competitive service to fully cope with
this risk, particularly with the likely improvements in the cost
competitiveness of the trucking industry as the roads network is
rehabilitated.
5.10           Physical Proiect ImDlementations The risk of project delays
or cost over-runs is substantial due to the significant civil works content
of the proposed project and the project returns are relatively sensitive to
this factor. To safeguard against this risk, the implementation profile
for the project has been based on conservative assumptions whilst the
management of project implementation has been designed such as to minimize
the risks of delay and unacceptable quality of work that would require
subsequent and more costly rectification.
D. Passenger Services
5.11     The proposed investment in coaches is to replace the part of the
coaching fleet that is currently slated for scrapping and to restore to an
acceptable degree of operating reliability and comfort, the currently
operational fleet. The economic evaluation of the proposed investment has
been undertaken on the basis of the assessment of the relative economic
costs of the investment compared to service provision by road transport.
The analysis is detailed in Annex 5-4 and Annex 5-5. The analysis assumes
that TRC's average passenger haul is 400 kme. However, this is based on
the last comprehensive survey of ridership patterns undertaken in the early
19809. Recent sample surveys undertaken by TIC indicate that the average
passenger haul is about 800 km, which appears consistent with the increased
supply of road capacity for intermediate distance travel since the start of
the EMP. To that extent, the analysis is conservative. The analysis also
assumes that four new locomotives are required by the passenger services in
addition to the assignment to it of four existing locomotives. This
assumption is based on the fact that with efficient operations and full
assignment of the complement of locomotives required by the passenger
services, there is an assessed overall shortfall of four locomotives based
on the existing fleet size. This effectively gives priority to freight
service which bears the full cost of the system's joint fixed costs of
operations. In reality, this assumption is also very conservative. With
the already committed locomotives procurement program. TRC is likely to
have surplus locomotives. Bus operating and capital costs and operating
data are detailed in Annex 5-4.
5.12     The economic analysis indicates that, at a discount rate of 102,
the unit long-run incrmental cost of the railways passenger service is, at
TSh 2.3, about 71 less than that of road transport. However, given the
conservative assumptions as to the resources requirements on which the cost



- 66 -
analysis is undertaken, this is a reasonably robust differential. For
example, assuming that the locomotives used by the passenger services are
all existing locomotives not due for replacement until around 2015 would
reduce the unit long run cost of passenger services to TSh 1.8 and widen
the differential to 28S. Similarly, using what are probably more realistic
average hauls would widen the differential.
VI.  AGRWSENE S REACHED AND RZCOtENUDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with
Government and TRCs
Mi)   that TRC shall (a) furnish to IDA for its review and comments
annually by not later than November 30, a plan for the scrapping
of wagons for the following year; and (b) shall implement such
plan taking into account IDA's comments (para 2.31);
(ii)  that, by December 31, 1992, TRC would have leased out its hotels
and franchised the catering services on its trains (para 2.32);
(iii) that, by December 31, 1992, TRC shall have completed the transfer
of operational, managerial and financial responsibility for its
roads services to an independent operator (para 2.33);
(iv)  that, by no later than March 31, 1992, TRC shall have completed
the preparation of and started on the implementation of action
plans, acceptable to IDA, to introduce a corporation-wide revised
salary structure and incentives scheme for its workforce and to
further reduce its manpower (para 2.36);
(v)   that (a) TRC's annual investment plan will be reviewed annually by
October 31 with IDA; (b) all investments in such investment plan
will be subjected to economic and financial evaluation and
justification; and (c) that of these investments all those costing
in excess of US$2.0 million equivalent will be implemented only
after consultations with IDA (para 2.38);
(vi)  that the operation of the proposed quarry to be established under
the project would be contracted out to experienced quarry
operators (para 3.07);
(vii) that the program of locomotive rehabilitation to be implemented
during the project period be subject to an annual review with IDA,
taking into account traffic prospects (para 3.17);
(viii) that a review of the management development program be conducted
annually on a tripartite basis with IDA, TRC and the consultants
(para 3.21);



- 67 -
(ix) that an annual review of the program for supervisory level staff
development and support be undertaken; that the results of such
review would be made available to IDA and that TRC, would
consequent to the review, make appropriate changes to any or all
parts of the program taking into account the views of IDA (para
3.22);
(x)   that, by January 31, 1992, TRC would prepare and furnish to IDA
for its review, its training plan and strategy (para 3.23);
(xi) the project financing terms for the project costs (para 3.43);
(xii) that by no later than December 31, 1993, TRC shall have undertaken
in conjunction with Government and IDA, a mid-course review of the
project (para 3.44);
(xiii) submission of accounts to IDA within six months of TRC's
financial year end (para 3.46);
(xiv) that, subject to annual reviews, TRC earns a rate of return on its
total capital employed of at least 152 in its fiscal years 1992,
1993 and 1994 and at least 202 for each fiscal year thereafter
(para 4.03);
(xv)   that TRC shall prepare and adopt, by no later than March 31, 1992,
a policy on the comtercial use of its surplus land satisfactory to
IDA (para 4.03);
(xvi)    that TRC (a) shall maintain its accounts receivables at a level
no greater than 45 days of annual revenues until completion of
the project; and (b) shall furnish semi-annually to IDA an aged
analysis of its accounts receivable (para 4.04 (vi)).
6.02     The following actions were agreed upon as conditions for Credit
Effectiveness:
(i)   the appointment by Government of a new Board of Directors for TRC
(para 2.27);
(ii) the completion of the action plans to improve maintenance and
trains operations practices and satisfactory progress in the
implementation of such plans (para 2.31);
(iii) TRC has signed contracts, satisfactory to IDA, for the leasing of
TRC's road and hotel services' assets and for the franchising of
TRC's catering services (para 2.32);
(iv) the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government
and TRC for the IDA Credit (para 3.43); and
(v)   the implementation of cumulative tariff increases of 80? by TRC
(para 4.04 (iii)).



- 68 v
6.03     Based on the above agreements reached, the project is suitable for
an IDA Credit of SDI 56.1 million (US$76.0 million equivalent) on standard
terms to Tanzania to be onlent to TRC.



- 69 -                         Annex ";
---  --                     -   -----
---   -   -~~j --------- 
I                                     0  O- 1t O     a -  -  - @0
8 |  |   S  r I                                        I .o
-~   ~       ~ ig           6 6 3 6                        g;-Tlda-l7---l4-
- j   l;lill                t ;          1-1      l         i ilso -
-     ---   ------ - - -
DI
or
o     I I  I I  I  1:          ~~1.1 :1  1  1 1  10 1  1el aZ  -g   
0         :~~10  0 1      i      0     0 I  I                      8                t
X        _;'   Ii             T T                                0  0                   f                    f  
a..L:1:~......
I _   _     _l_l..                I_   |j        ._l    _I    _  _  _d__a
!1' 2l    X"lR  ^Z  #12$  s  |"  l: ............                ti



- 70 -
TANZANIAt RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TANZANIA RAILWAY CORPORATION              ANNEX 2.2
CURRENT SPEED RESTRICTIONS
SECTION                 LENGTH              TRAFFIC         EXISTING
NO.                          KM            MILLION T          SPEED
458                          17                  1.9              10
528                          10                  1.7              10
32B                          25                  1.5              10
22B                           5                  1.5              10
718                          10                  0.7              10
101E                        184                  0.2              10
111A                         57                  0.2              10
42D                           5                  1.9              15
410                          17                  1.9              15
91X                          80                    1              15
104A                         48                  0.2              15
103A                         48                  0.2              15
1OSA                         88                  0.2              15
62A                          40                  1.7              20
66A                          50                  1.7              20
52A                          10                  1.7              20
65A                          20                   1.7             20
64A                          91                   1.7             20
34A                          63                   1.5             20
72A                          20                  0.7              20
78A                          40                  0.7              20
79A                          40                  0.7              20
77A                          51                  0.7              20
710A                         40                  0.7              20
112C                         51                  0.2              20
102C                         28                  0.2              20
43E                          15                   1.9             30
54C                          63                   1.7             30
210                           5                   1.5             30
92X                         100                    1              30
92X                         100                    1              30
92X                         100                    1              30
74C                          40                  0.7              30
76C                         123                  0.7              30
75C                          97                  0.7              30
73C                          40                  0.7              30
44C                         180                   1.9             35
63C                         130                   1.7             35
33X                          34                   1.5             35
24C                         170                   1.2             40
23C                          30                    1              40
ITEM                    LENGTH % OF TOTAL LENGTH
SPEED < =10 KM              308                   13
SPEED c =I5 KM              286                   12
SPEED <=20KM                544                   23
SPEED < =30 KM              683                   29
SPEED <=35 KM               344                   15
SPEED < =40 KM              200                    a
TOTAL                      2365                  100



TANZANIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
|__ ___   MAINLINE AND SHUNTING LOCOMOTIVES
N   DATE OF             TYPE OF WHEEL  TP O                CONTINUOUS MAXIMUM    ADHESIVE                 TRARNG
NUMBER MANUF AC- MANUFAC- TRANSMI ARRANGE TYPE OF H.P.I  TRACTIVE    TRACTIVE  ADHE SIVE                          LOAD AT
CLASS  IN BOOK TURE           TURER      SSION    MENT    ENGINE  RPM   EFFORT            EFFORT    WEIGHT   ALE LOAD I% GRAD
F                ._,_                           ___        __,_    {f) --_  . ._ISJF)    (TOlN!~ES) (TQNNEL       (
t4       21        1979       THY9SEN   HYDO-   B-B         MTU 12V  7401   10.400        12.500      30         10.3
HENSCHEL  AUUC                300 IC   is0
W."__ANY         __11112                                           _          .
72       2        t972        EN4GUH    ELEC-    1-BC-BC-1 EE SCSVI 1240*  14.645         16.150      is 6       12.475     me
ELECTIrC   TIO                MARK  t t50
_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ U .K .   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __     _  _      _ _  _
73       Is       1976        DIESEL     ELEC-    CO-CO    ALCO       1300t  16.000       24.420      72         t2.6       700
LOCO W10    TFUC              251061N
INDIA                         LINE                                       __ __              _
7        0        les6        ENOUSH    ELEC.   tCO-COi EE 126   16401  20.180            27.25       109 3      13 3       1000
ELECTfIC   TRAC               8VT      650
tU.K.                                                                        .   _   __.____
Bs       20       1*72        MLWIALCO  ELEC-    *CO-CO1 ALCO        10501  16.775        35.000     ItO        13.5        1200
15      1907        CANADA    TAlC                251C 12V  1050                | ___                     _  
3s       4        102          NDREW    HYWR-   C           PAXMAN  300    0.070          11.100     30.6        13t
_BARCLAY    AULIC             ORPHL MK  .___                                               _ _    _
36       20       197       .  USH       ELEC-    0-6-0    PAXMAN  326    7.020           11.000     362         *32
ELECTRC   TRC                 6RPHL    150
7                to"         HENOCt1EL  HYOR-   C          MTUOV    25K   63KN           120 KM     32          13 2
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   UUc   _ _ _ _ _ _    306  TC 12  1600  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ __T2 g
U~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1'



- 72 -
Annex 2-4
TANZW IAsfAIL WYS USTRUCTUIMIlG PRLOJECT
LOCOROTIWVIIO0LIM.   AND  ING CApACttY *1990
AWAITING            LOCOS-ON-L:NE/   ORIGINAL          CURRENT         PERCENTAGE
NINER   REHS   A  LOCOSON- LOCOS IN lOOKS   TRAILING LOAD  TRAILING LOA   REO TION IN
CLASS IN BOOKS  RWEUILD  LINE        (PERCENTAE)    At 1%         tgIENT AT 1Z GADIENT  ALIN
(TOtNES)        (TOWSHE)    CAPACITY
64           21        6         15               71               S0o             450           10
72           2         2          0               0                660             595           10
73          is        10          S              33                700             59f           15
s7           a         0          8             100               1000             900           10
88          35        10         25              71               1250            1125           10
35           4         0          4             100
36           20       11          9              45
3?                     0          5             100
TOTAL      110        39         71              65



TAN2WNAs RAILVAYS  RESTuRIG PROJEC?
TANZANIA RAILWAY CORPORATI
WACON TYPES. CHRACISTICS AND HOLDING
l.a      WaGn Stocs 8 per Fxccrds
CAPACM/Y)      TAFE
WAGZON                                  STOCK BAIANCE AS ON DECEMBER                       WAGON  WEKIHT
,Pw      COVE             1989      1990      1991       1992    1993     1994__    19__(lqa  (
w u                      - 121  0     0                                               14        12
CL               557      4B4        446      407       367      3:17      337        13        12
CGB               67        ;F        O                                               32        17
CGS"            395        &V7      B337                3        3337 333                       17
CIa              973       670       850                ON       807   8D7            36        17
2073     1717      1633      1564     1511      1481     1481
OPN   .S                    B2        41        0                                               15 -  _   16
LSB              374       274       274      274       196      118        40        34        16
ISOL            lD        100       100      100       100      100       100        35        16
556      415       374      374       296      218       140
HS                48        19        is       11        7         3         0        14-       t2
HSB               91        42        34       26        in       10         0        24        16
HF                13        11        9         7        5         3        0         3         16
HWB               12         4        3         2         1        1        0         32        16
HBO              413       347       347      337       317      232       291        37        17
577      423       408      383       348      309       291
TAN(     tF                 2         2        2         2        2         0        0      117          17
(tJ       20                 6        6         6        6         0        0         0      12338       18
PT                so       45        45        3        33        33       :13     tas         21
CFO               50        40        0         0        0         0        0      37765        24
D06               10         6        0                                            395          23
DO                 5         3        0                                                         22Z
FMB               19        16        5         5        5         5        5      23022
O                ?187     153      123       88        a8       88       s8    50C            23
329      271       181      134       128       123      136      _ _
C0Tll - LW        8         0        0                                               10        12
CF                 9         0        0                                               10        12
cHB              173      g9         98       Os        98       99        Os         30       18
190       96        98       so       98        98        98
BHB               75        7s       7s        75       7S        75       75         40 _
.    C8            6         5        5         5        5         5        s:
MV                 4         0        0
MG                15         9        9         0
Mae               23        20       2D        23       20        2D       2 
IF8L              14        14       14        14       14        14       14                                   t 
CONTARER                    50       100      150      2DO       3)0      20D
PHOSPHAEE         25        25       25        25       23        25       25
B6      12_       173      214       24       254       254 
''AL-- 3.__6   2 3122  2942                        2342      2        2571  -. 2475
,. _., . . _ _ . , . . . *w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



TANZANIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
i .b     Stock Bdonce in Tenrs of the Highest Capacity Wagon                           1.c       Wagons Available fot Traffic
STOCKBALANCE AS ON DECEMiBER               _       _-                   WAGONS AVAILABLE AS ON DECEMBER
CG_____       1989     1990      1991      1992      1993      1994     1995                         1990      1991   _ 1992      1993      1994     1895
C5              47        0         0         0         0                              CVRE                              
CL             201       175       161       147       133      122       122
CBS             67        26         0         0        0         0         0
CGB(           355       337       337       337      337       337       337
CLII           973       870       650       620      807       807       807          Avail. %         74        83       86        69       92        92
1643     1408      1346      1304      1277      1266     1266           No. Avail     1042      1119      1121     1136      1164     1164
LS              35       1i8         0         0        0         0         0          OPEN LOWY
LSB            243       266       268       266      190       115        39
LSBL           100       l0o       100       100      100       100       100          Avail. %         72        83       86        89       92        92
498      384       366       366       290      215       139           No. Avail      276       304      315       258       197      128
HS              16         7         6         4        3         1         0          OPEN
1S8             59        27        22        17       12         6         0          HIGH
HF               1I       10         a         6        4         3         0
HFI3            10         3         3         2        1         1         0
"Lo            413       347       347       337      317       292       291          Avail. %         72       83        86        89       92        92
512      394       365       366       337      303       291           No. Avail      284       320      315       299       279      260
0        0         0         0         0        0         0           TANK
2        2         2         2         0        0         0
PT              18        17        17        12       12        12        12                                                                                   j
WB            38        30        0         0         0         0        0
7        4         0         0         0        0         0
DUB              2         1         0        0         0         0         0
FlB              9         7         2         2        2         2         2
Pro            187       153       123       88        86        88        88          Aveil.%          80       83        86        S9       92        92
.--Ii    263     215       144       104      103       102       102          No.Avail        172      119        90        92       94        94
LW               3         0         0        0         0         0         0          CATTLE
CF               3         0         0        0         0         0         0
aHB            173        98        98       98        98        98        98          Aved. %         70        83        86       89        92        92
179       98        98        98       98        98        98           No. Aval        69        e1       84        67       90        90
HOPPER  5H8               75        75       75        75        75        75          HOPPER          53        62        65       67        69       69
MISC.            5         0         5        5         5         5         5          MISC.
4        0         0
15        9         9         0
23       20        20        20        20       20        20
14       14        14        14        14       14        14
50      100       150       200      200       200
25       25        25        25       25        25        25            veil.%         70        83       aS        89       92        92
es      123       173       214      264       264       264          No.Avail         86       144      184       235      243       243
3181           2697     2569      2527      2443      2323     2235           TOTAL         1981      2149     2174      2175      2i3i     2056
_ .  _



-75 -
-j~44~W                            Annex 2-6
Page 1 of 11
.,THE UNITED       IC- F TANZAN1A
MINISTRY Df COMMUNZCATIONS AND  IRANSPORT
MINISTERIAL DIRECTIVE No. 1 dated ...........,, l91
THE TANZANIA RAIltAYS:CORPORATION ACT, 1977
(,N4o:ll .Qf:.1977)
MINYJ*F.RIAL DIRECTIVE
Made tinder Soction 13
1.   This Ministerial Diroctivaopay, ao Cited ae' TRC Ministerial Dlrective
No. 1 of IM9; and shall come intqo effect as of the dato of signing.
2.   In accordarice with the provisiune  f the Tanzania Railways Corporation
Act the Minister iu desirous.that the Tenzanie Railways Corporation provide
rail and inland waterways,'-freitt and.passenger servicos on an efficient
-nd commorcial basis.   .
3.   To that end, the.Governmenf intends pursuant to the TRC Act and this
Directive to clarify the rols2aiJO.powers8.f TRC, to ssciet TRC to oatablish
en appropriate corpo hte plan '4d$to..set out certain obligations and
practices, which will enable IRfto adminiofer ito undertaking on the basis
of sound business principles with BiWiew w4. generating through sustained
efficioht and oommercAns operations incomhi sufficient t.n meet ito
expenditures and earn a rate of i-*ss?n on its assets sufficient to sustain
officient and commercial operotavt.eo
4.   Undpr the provisions of Section 26 of the TRC Act, the Minister is
required, from time to time, to aetermine the ratio of debt. to total
capit1l omplayed by TRC. Pursuant to this provision TRC is horeby
directed to ensure that it ehallenot incur any debt if after tho incurronce
of such dobt, the ratio of debtA  .total capital employed shell exceed 60%.
5.   Section 11(d) ofthe TRC Act-empowers the Diroctur-Gouteral subject to
to directions of the Board to a"nrovo any alteration to the oetablishment,
of TRC, other than an alteration Involvng a major roorganization or a
eubstantial reduction In the numlMr of omplojeoa. To clarify this provi8ion
and to ensure that 1RC adapts its? .oorporate structure and manpower lovel8 to
ichanging commercial ccnditionea



-76 -
Annex 2-6
Page 2 of 11
.~~~~:
(*) A major reorganization chall mean reamalgamation of the
diviaions to be created under TRC,e now organizational
structure or the creation of new non-railways servips
divisions or subsidieries or the amalgamation of TRC.
with any other unzelated corporation or entity.
(b)   A reduction in the. number of employees shall refer t
reductions in the.tevised staff estsblishment of TRC that
the ioard and theo  nagement conseider appropriate to
achieve TRC,s eofip4ency and commorcial objectives.
6.     Under Section 20 ot1Ahe TRC Act, TRC slill not be required
to provide services to any buthority either gratuitously or at a rate
or charge which is insufficient to meet the cost involved in the
provisions of such services, unless the authority conceorned
undertakes to make good the smount of the lose incurrod by reason
of the provision of such services. In order to on:ure compliance
with this provicion, the Governments
(a)   hereby permits TRC to adjust Ito tariffs         with such
frequency as TRC considers commercially prudent to
covor Its full costs under efficient operating conditions
and including an appropriets provision for an edequate
rate of return; and
9b)   undertakes to makeogood any lose incurred by TRC by. reswn
of provision of ttonsport  -r? eerw4ces, Jnvestmento 6r
inland waterway fatill)Jesedt 'he diiective of the
Covernment.        J
7.     It is furthor directed thiat In ordor to operationalize and
oxpand this DirectJvef the Principal Seoretary shall after
consultation with the Ministart from time to time, enter into
a memorandum of understanding, performance agroement or other
inatrument with TRC. consistent with the provisions of this
Directive and the IRC Act.
Dar eo SALAAM4                   tiilcoC            n     ons end
23 May, 1991                                  Transport



- 77 -
Annex 2-6
Page 3 of 11
TANZANIA RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MEMORANDUM OF UNDgRSTANLIONG, dated 24 May 1991
INRTWREN
THES (QVERNNNT OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA.
THROUGI
THE MrItSTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS ANI) TRANSPORT (MNCT
AND
TANZ7.ANIA RAILWAYS CORPORATION (TIC)
I    The Government, consistent with the Tanzania Railways
Corporation Act (TRC Act) and Ministerial Dlrective No.1 dated
23 May, 1991 of 1991, is deslrous that TRC provides rail, roeds
and Inland waterways fr,eicht and passonger servioeo on an
efficient and commercial basin.
2    In conformity wlth this TRC will ulndertake all neceossry
octions within Its powers- Inter ella, tat
a) olosely plan Its level and pattern of services to moot
the changing needs of Its customersi and
b) manage Its operations so that services are provided
efficlently and In a cost effective manner.
3    TIC will carry on Its opwatlona and conduct Its affairs In
aooordance with sound administrative, financial and oporatlons
monagement aseisted by competent otaff In adequate numbers. To
thot end. TRC ulil lplemnt:
a) the revised corporate orranlsational structure sot forth
In rhehdulo 1; and
b) the manpoar restructuring plan set forth In Schodule 2
4    The governsent shall  ensure that TRO revised  capital
structure met forth in Schodule 3 Is lmplesented.
5    In carryli  out Its oprations and financall offairs, TRC
will use Its best efforts to achieve the operatlokal targets Got
forth irn Schdbule 4 and the rates of return on total eapital
employed oet torth in schedule S hereof. It is understood that
such pormoance shall be subject to review  and to attOdment
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 17.  Further, It Is
understoOd that the rates of return on "aital u ployod speol l'ed
In Schedule 3 shall be subject to amendment to take account of
the revaluation of assets to be undertaken a part of the
Rai lways Ketructuring Project. for purpose of this mmorandus,
capital employed means thu us of capitel, proviwionu, long-term
and short term*debt, accumulated profIts avd louses mu1d any
revaluation  surplus.   Profits to  be taken  Into account In
determining the rate of return shall be protits before interest
on debt but after duprwctltion.



- 78 -
Annex 2-6
Page 4 of 11
2
6    The Government ahall aupport and provlde all t1he fa&clitles
and other resources required by TRC Jn the lmplementatlon of the
revise4 corporate organisation and capltal structure referred to
in paragraph 4. To ensure that TRC can continue to adopt its
manpower levels to changing coamercile conditions, as provided
in the Directive, TRC may reduce Its staff complement as
necessary for efficienty and commercial purposes. Accordingly TkC
shall Implement the manpower reduotion plan referred to in
paragraph 3 abovc, as the some shall be revsord following TRC
maanpower reduction study.
7    Pursuant to Section 20, Part lV asnd Sectlou 2C Part V of the
TRC Act, the government hereby affirms the prJnclple ttiat TRO in
costing it& services shall make full provision for the earning
of a rato of return on Its not flxed as*ts an periodicalJy
revalued (or as a surrogate for thiA a rate of return on its
total capital employed) suffIcIernt to cover Its financlng charees
on existing assets and ensure that Ito cashflow generatlon will
be sufflicent to cover the flnancing charges related to the cost
of replacing its flxed assets. Further to perasraph 6 (a) of the
Directlve effloent optrating conditions means that TRC shall be
In compllance with the porformance target. not. forth In Sohedule
4 to this femorAndum.
8    Pursuant to parograph 6  (b) of the Directive, logses
incurred by TRC on the provision of services at the direction of
the Government wil) be determie  an a thweo monthly basis by TRC
and presented to the Hinistvy of Finanee. Payments te TRC to make
good such losses will be mad. to TRC pursuant to the appropriate
Government budgetary procedure, as dacided by the itnistry of
Finance. The ro vrnment hereby und6rtakes that such payments I Il
be made no later then ninety day. after the prosontation of the
quarterly assessment of losses. Yt to understood that Such
payments will be sub.tJut to audit and adjustment will be made on
the basis of such audits. No other losses incurred by TIC In ita
operattQnu golall be roiburtied by Covornnesnt.
9    The Government hereby perilte, TRC to undertake invaetments
In support of its comercial operations subject only tol
a)   tho debt to tatea  cepitati euloyed limitation outlined
in tk& Direoctgves and
b)   submieswon to MCT, an part of the anu&l capital
budagetng process, of tchnloal economic and tinaalelal
evaluation of any Investment euoeoding US: $ 2 million
which it proposes to undertalt outside of the plainned
programE of Investments under the pwepomed Rlelwaye
mostructurtin Project. it to understood that this
latter figure will be ubjeot to review ou an annual
basis taking into account changes in the prices of
malor classes of transport wervices' assets.



- 79 -
Annex 2-6
Page 5 of 11
3
10   To Suppvft TRC's ability to maintain an offiolrnt level of
operating performanoc:, (;overnment shall ensure that the list of
items eligible under the Open Gesaeral Llcense System at; any point
uvvers all categories of items likely to be iuported by TRC for
uee in its maintonanle. activities.
11   In  ne.w-dr to aveJ6t. Govornment to determine progreoss mad* In
meeting itg. obligations under this tis-uorandum, TRC shall prepare
promptiy at the end of six ivonths during Its flnancial year hut,
In any event., not later than 45 days thereafter, and furnish to
MCIT, a report setting forth Inter a) la:
a)   Its performance as agalnst operating targetse set forth
lit chadtile 4;
b)   ito profit and loss and cashflows tor the six monthis
period* cumulative statement of profit and lose and
cash flowa for tho year to dato and, If relevant,
revised prolections for the financial year as a whtole;
c)   8tatement of progress on key capital projects under
implementation and compared to those contemplated In
its capital budget approved by MCT; and
d)   any actions which it proposes to take to remedy any
major deviations which have beon Identified In tho
said report.
12   Promptly at the end of each of TRC'B firnancial years and In
any event not later than six uonths aftor such year end, ThC
shall preparge and furnish to 4CT a report on its performance
against the targets vat forth In Schedule 4 to this Memorandum,
a preliminary statement of its financial position and a narrative
report on tho causes of devistionw ft actual performance grom the
agreed performance.
13   Arter review by tC' of each of the roports referred to ln
paragraphs It and 12 of this Memorandum, the Minister shall
determine any actions which he doom, necessary imprcovins
management of TRC's aftairs and wLth reSpect to the ensuirn
quarters or financial year.
14   The Oovernmunt hereby  permits TRC  to  adopt porwonnel
policies, including, inter slia, pay, incentives and conditions
of service which will enable TRC to attract and retain
appropriately qualified ald experienced otaff.
15   The (overnment and TRC shall cooperate fully to assure that
the objectives of tlhle Mmorandus xre accomplished. To that and,
the Government or TRC, As th) case may be* will promptly Inform
each otheo of Any condittion which interferes wLth the achievement
e,f the objectives of thiS Mgmorandum.



80                          Annex 2-6
Page 6 of 11
4
Ir. Taic  Mainva "e&6JA sIall  -"  %&*P. ioL1va us& Liao %I& u-a %dih1s.
It In signed by the partles thereto and shaJi  subsist for a
perlod of five years.
17   Any amonduent to this Memorandum or the Schedules thereto
shall be effected by mutual agreement of the parties through an
exchange of )*ttors.
On behalf of NOT                           On belhalf of TRC
Dated: _y"I ^9?grV- lociQ                   Dated i ; e    s- 99
4INEM,VA. IkCEIiCIARY
A"bsrhlY (IF .O?.Ufl:NICAMWNS
ANIUAM1*PORT



- 81 -
Page 7 of 11
5
CULS BI                    ORGOANSATfONAL SThUCTUKM
I



- 82 -
Annex 2-6
Page 8 of 11X
6
KANP(OWBa- RUSTRUCTURIO P'LAN        SCIIEDULE X
TRC has arranged for asslstance so that the detalled staff
requirements over the plan period can be established. Provi llonal
figures for the whole corporation, subject to an estb1lishatent
study and the reorganisatJon rpEerred to in Peragraph 3 of the
agreement, are:
Year       1991       1992       M993      1994       X995
Number    13579      13247      12890     12890      12890



- 83 -
Annex 2-6
Page 9 of 11
7
CAPITAL. STRUCTURE             .tHRWi.P :
Debt      Equity          Reserves
31.12.90 Tsh billion      16,976    7.165           (B.500)
Converted to
million US&                64.8     38.3            (42.5)
Debt/Equity
swop --Italian Loan       (27.4)    27.4
57.4     65.7
Reserves                           (42.5)
57.4     23.2
The rates of return on capital employed to be earned by TRC
referred to  iti paragraph S of tkte agreement shall be the
followings
1991                95
1992                15S
1993                19L
1994                201
1905 and thereafter 201



- 84 -
Annex 2-6
Page 10 of 11
PBRVORMANCB TAROBIS      SC)DIWLS 4
1991 1992 1993 1994 199&
1.c'c00otlve availability it
Clams 35                    7S   75   75   75   75
Class 30                    50   75   75   75   75
Class 37                    75   75   75   75   75
Class 64                    60   70   75   75   75
Claos 73                    33   33   40   40   40
Clamss  7                   71   71   72   72   71
Close as                    64   71   74   7S   75
Overarl                     .58  64   70   70   70
Looomteltv  tJtMlIsgt)Jon km/day
cJrta 35                   150  175  180  200  200
Class 36                   176  17b  190  200  200
Class 37                   200  200  200  200  200
Class 64                   300  350  350  350  350
Class 73                   250  300  3S0  400  400
Class 87                   350  400  450  500  500
Class 88                   425  475  500  550  S50
Overall for Nainline      .162  413  433  409  409
I.o0omotive reliabIlity OOOk.
Close 36                    10   20   30   40   50
Cleas 37                    45   435   6    45  4S
Class 64                    20   30   40   43   50
Class 73                    20   30   40   45   50
CU1 OD 87                   20   30   40   45  ji
Class 00                    20   30   40   45   50
Ovorall                    *20  *30  *40  p46  SQ
blook Rkes
CU'ored Wagons              10   15   18   20  2&
Open wVgons                  3    4    5    5    5
Phosphate Wagons             1    I    1    1 I
Livestock Wagono             I    I    1    1    I
POL ifeoN                    4    S    6   10   10                                 U
Container Waons              2    3    3    3    3
Total                       21   20  ^U   40   45
Average Yard Detention
Through train, minutes      30   30   an   30   3
Origtnatitng/?i., days       6    5    4    3    3



- 85 -                      Annex 2-6
page 11 of l1
9
Wagon Availability I
Covered wagons              83   f6   89   92   92
Open W^Agon                 83   86   89   92   92
POL wagons                  83   66   89   92   92
ContLln.r wagong            83   80   89   92   92
LiVesOtok Wagons            83   86   89   92   92
Overall                     83   86   89   92   92
Wagon km,/Wagon day        123  143  15   169  181



TANZANIA; RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OPERATIONS IMPROVEMENT PLAN
PERFORMANCE TARGS
1. LOCOWTMOE AVALMILITY
UNff OF            CURFEW    --SHORT TERM PLAN--                            -MEDIUM TERM-    LONGTERM
MEASURE- NO.OF    STATUS       JULY  AUG.   SEP.  OCT. NOV. DEC.              1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
LOOO CLASS            MENT    LOCOS   J-M 90                           1990
Ctus35                    %             4   48           60       60    65    65    70 75             75    75    75    75    75
ChM36                                  20   32           35        5    40    45    45 45             50    60    75    75    75
CIS37                                   5   96           85       85    85    80    80 75             75    75    75    75    75
CLms64                                 21   39            45      45    45    47    47 50             60    70    75    75    75
CIS73                                  15   ?7           30       30    31    31    32 33             33    33    40    40    40
Cass87                                  7   45           50       s0    55    55    60 64             71    71    71    71    71
Class B8                              3a   52            57       57    57    57    57 57             64    71    74    75    75
Oweri                                 107   44           48       48    49    50    51 52             58    64    70    70    70
2 LOCOMOTIVE UTILIZATIN
UNIT OF   CURENT         ----I-OLEM  PLAN-                            -MEDIUM  lERM-            LONGTERM
MEASURE-  STATUS         JULY  AUIG   SEP.    OCT. NOV. DEC.            1991  1992  1993          1994  1995
LOGGCLASS              IENT      JIM 90                         1990
CLas3s                LOOOKhw                     100   110      120   120   13 130            150 175   190             21  200
Clas 36               LOCO DAY                    140   150      150   1      160  160         175   175   19D      0   20 03
Cs37                                  160         160   170      170   180  230   200          310   310   310           20D  0M           a
Os64                                  230         2     250      250   275   275   275         300   350   30            350   350
CLm73                                 171         180   180      180   310   210   200         350   300   350           40D   400
SS87                                  210         270   270      270   300   300   300        350   400   450            500   500
CinsU8                                33D         350   30              3     300   400       42    475   500            550   550
O0r For
MaiLkhe                               20          297   302      307   323   328   331        362   413   433            469   469
3. LOCXMOTIVE RELIABLffY
UN  OF   CURREN          -SHORT TERM PLAN-                            -MEDIUM TERM-             LONG TERM
MEASUFE-  STATUS         JULY  AUG. SEP.    OCT. NOV. DEC.              1991  1992  1993          1994  1995
LOCO CLASS            MENT      J-M 90                          1990
Class3S               ME1tNKMW      3971         50O   5000    5000  5000  5000   000    10000 2000  300X              40oo 500a
Class 37             I-AlLURE       69136       43100 4230    4       4100 4500  45000    4500  4500  450              45M00  50000
Class64              IN USE         15S70       1000 10   11000  10000 10000 10000    2000 30000 4000                 45 00    5a5000
Glass 73                            12519       1(000  10000   10000 10000 15000 15000    21000 31000 400              45000 50000
Class87                             10698       12D00  1300    12000 13000 13000 13000   23000  30000 40[0             45000 50000         _
Class 88                            11287       12000 123O0    12000 13000 13000 13000    3120   30C00 4M00            4500  B0OOM
Oveall                               7489      >10000>13100>13000  >14000>15000>1500    >23000>30000>40000            >450>50



4. BLOCK RAKE
FORMATION
CoveredWagomn         CUMULATh           0           1      1        1      2     2      3        10    15    18             20    25
Open Wagons           NUMBER             0           0      0        0      1      1     1         3      4      5            5     6
PhospaeWagons         OFRAKES            0           1      1        1      1      1     1         1
Uvestock Wagons                          0           1      1        1      1      1     1         1      1      1            1      1
POL Wagons ,                             0           0      0        0      1     2      3         4      5      6           10    10
POL Wagons (Mough)                       0           1      1        1      1     2      2
ContainerWagons                          0           1      1        1      1      1     1         2      3      3            3      3
Total                                    0           4      4        4      7      9    11        20    28    33             39    4A
5.. AVERAGE YARD
DETENTION)WAGON
Through Wagons        MINUTES                      120   120        60    60    6)    60          30    30    30             30    30
OginaingjTenn.        DAYS              10          10      9        9      9     8      7         6      5      4            3     3
6. WAGON
AVAILABILY
CoveredWagons             %             52          56    60        64    68    72    74          83    86    89             92    92
OpenWagons                              61          62    64        66    68    70    72          83    86    p9             92    92   -
POLWagons                               52          55    60        65    70    75    80          83    86    89             92   90'
ContaneWagons                           70          72    74        76    78    79    80          83    86    89             92    92
Livestock Wagons                       46           sO    54        58    62    66    70          83    86    8I             92    92
Overal                                  55          59    63        67    71    75    77          83    86    89             92    92
7. SCRAP WAGONS
AWArlnNG DISPOSAL
Covered Wagons        BALANCE          369
OpenWagons            TO BE           296
POLWagons             DISPOSED          60
Misc.Wagons              (NO.)          96
Total                                  821         821   724       628   53    436   340           0
8. WAGON KMJWAGON DAY           <50                 8s    85        85    92    97   102         123   143   155           189   181
Asswnptomns
Block- 200                                                                                                                               i
Pick-up -75
Blocks in 1995-85%
of total Traffic



TANZANIAt RAILWAYS RESTUCTURING PROJECT
EXPECtEO tIF fIC UNOEI OIlt ILi NI ASsiUMPS IOuWNSA AN  SC6.NARIOS
Vrn.abl..s                     $         1991 t S   92       1003  ItH4          less     1900    I tl9     1000         Me      2000
eabbe                                     I0 e00     0 Go    I 00      I Go        00      1 00       00 Ie00           I 00      * 00       00
bk ete% S                       I 00      100       I00       I00         0 o    I 00 Io00           I 00      $ oo       D e     too      10e
uIzteoa                        I00 o       0      Io00      I00 oe     D oe00            1 00 Io00           100       I oo     100       D0e
swu mIo@u@Ive.                 000
I I  LOCOMOTIE AVAILABSiTY %
CLASS    MAXIMUS         TRAILING 0        FLEET                     AVAILABILITY (% I
TRACTIVt EFFORT  LOAO&OCO              SiZE
IXOF)           @00.4.
05           35000          1200           35        53        at       el        72        is        is        is        is        is       is        is        n
07          22215          loo              I        so        el        71       it        is        Is        7i        to        is        is       is        it
a            24420          I0s te                   2e        33       33                  40.       40        40        40        40       40        40       40
:2           Isis           a00             2         0         0        0        as        70        is        75        is        is       is        n        1
04           1250            000          2I         42        55        as        72       i5        ts        75        is        i5       is        is        is
50                          1300                                0         0        0         0        71        75        is        is       is        Is       1
0 At 1%  ety de                     A*IT IMATIC MEAN Of AVAILAUILITY
EXPfcECTE AT  InE BEGttINNItG * Ef OF OfYEAR
1.8  LOCOMOTIVE AVAILABILITY NO.)A
CLA9S     MAXnMUM        TRAtN  0          FEET            AVANASILITY IN NuMERS
TRACItIV EFFORT  LOADIOCO              SIZE     1000      1991      102      1903       0094    *15
(CF1            @004.)                                                                                                                                         I
60           35000          1200           35        Is        21       23       2as        20        a         20        2e       2         20       2a        2t      $
*7           2at25          1o0o            1         3         5         5        5         5         5         s         o                                            6 5   
1a           24420          Too            is         4         5        0         s         a         0         0         a        0         O         *        o
12           lot"e           0              2         0        0         e         I         I         2         2         2        a         2         2        2
04           law       00   a"             el         S         i        14 e      S Oo               to  lO              to       to        to        to       to
00                          1200            0         a                       0   a                    0         0         0        0         0         a        0
2 L LOCO REQUIREMENT NO0
CLASS TYPE OF SERVI                 BAStS OF
ASSESSMENT
2         S         S         7         *         4        4         4         4         4        4         4
4S BLOCKS &tRANSIT               MODEL                a        tO       34        or        as        t0        20        20       2t        a         X        ae
*s PASSE"uERlRANS8               TRAIN KS             S         S        a         S         a         a         a         0        a o                 a        0
IS OEPARTMENTALTRAMS            WORKLOAO              S        4         4         a         *                   a e                     0                e 
n2 "InmO                        PROVISIONt            t         3         I        I         I         *         3         I        3         *         I 
04 PICKuPTRAMS                   MOOEL               20g       22       Is        I?   1 14           10        la                 to        to        la       to
00                                      0 ~ ~~             ~~        ~~        ~~       ~~        ~~        ~~        ~ 5  a  a  0  0  0  0  0a   
0



TYAZANIAt RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
31   L0CO SUftPUSt1s)SetTl.A1tat)
CLASS
as                                                                                    0s                  0         a         00                             00
6)                                                     .5         3         3                   .3       .3        .3                    3        .3         3        -3
12                                                     3          I         I        .3
r2                                                      1         t         t         0         O                   0         0          I         I a      t
64                                                    -20        10        -6         2         1         *         6          6         6         6         a        6
60                                       0          0        ~~        ~~        ~~        ~~        ~ ~ ~           ~ ~~0  0  0  0  0  0 0  0  0    a
3    LOCO SURPLUtIS0I4nORIFAL1.4I -YYPE 66 EQUIVALENI...
CLASS
66                                                    11         Ii         0         6         5         0         0         0         0                   0 o
?                                                      .4        .         .3        -3        .3        -3        .3         .3        .3       .-3        .         -
13                                                     2          1                   0 0       0         0         0         0         0         e         0         0
72                                                     -              .1              0                   0 o0                0         0         0 o  o
64                                                      S6        4         2        -          I         3         3         3         3         3         3         2
00 0                                                                                                      0         0         0         0         0                   0 
lOtt AL                                                    0         4                   0 5       4         I          I         1         1         1         I         I
ADO FOR OPERATIONAL FLEXIBILITY                               O3                  .4        .4        .4        .5         5         .5        .5        .5        5 
NE1 SIOFRIACE OF tOCOS*lt-US0                                            1         I         I         0         .4       .4        .4        .4        -4         4         4
ttET StORIAGE OF LOCOS-041 tNE                             -0 Ss      1 23      0 62      0 le      -0 s      -5.92     -5 92     -5 e2      - S2     -50 2     -5 2      - 602
lAs.u.Iaf 75% A.ailooitU.
* - EQUIVAt EtuT NUMBER * FLEEI SiZE-
TRACTIVE EFFORTIIE OF tLOCO 6
4 1   TRAFFIC UNDER DtFFEREN4T SCENARIOS                                                                                                                                                   I
e    TiISC AstmodtIoBeeC..e.4#=oqaTonaeT.                         0.09      I         1.41      1.00      IesO       kis      21t       216        210       211       2le       216      Co
'0
.   Scenario I -FULL W SV # OIP                                   0."       t.1B     It S       II        t as      215       2 15  21   25 21I              21I       215       2.15
latro.. Ia tote ...U.bmp - 100% 0of. be$, 60
Sactk being.        100% as pIa.a.d
loomotieU  isones".    100o% as plOaned
a.   Sc..ado I FWg.rnwv  oi                                       60        1.16      I 51       I i      1.60      1 64       1644      1.64      1 04      1 04      1644      10
Stl lavotoal
MIC160. I. taCO eoVUeabW - 100% 1O b" es".
Black hbr           t00% as planned
e   t oot Se ae to*F ml t"  OtP o   as                                   1t          $t       I t       t I       te         ^41        41"l                e        0
10t@eu t1' ta z.2.    . OOS    . pleand
No.w Loc otives            rA
00 0
0I
rt.,
S.-



TRC - APflROVED ORGANISATION SIRUCIURE
*3 J                 E43                  __  _ -*- 
a +~ I .,.           -.   __  -  I  I  'S-'
l l     -   I   - ~~~~~~w-.                  _~fu~   _.
I   L__1  ,-. 0--                                                      r   
= m rj . _ _ .W t=~~-i-,                                        - -        -=
, ----CWt----.R2                                       .    *~~~~~~~- 
-*   -   *z     -II   -       .        .   .  i.  e-- a.  ~ .  -  t..  -e         . _
_ ___                           ___.J_5._   I*                                -
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 9.n  ~ - ~   ~-        - ~        -- .  .    -;  .      *  ,, ,~  -- ,



TANZNIA t RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MAINTENANCE COST
WPECf    rYPECF   MT  COST PEF                          NO. OURN                                               TOTAL COST   il lUOI
MIE        SERVifCE          SEfbICE      1990     1991 U966          1ow      1930     1995     1990     1991     1E96     lo lw
A. UXX             E       NO.        029        3         3        3        3        3        3      0.86     0.8      0116     086      0.86
L(073                                 0.29        1
1000.73                                 902                                                                    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.O0
L00072                                                                                               .000      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
00  0.00     0.00        D     00
L(x)064                               0.06       8        8         S        B        8        8      0.3      0.38     0.38      38 
L(00036                               Q22                                                      4      O.Q0     O00      0O.    D 000      #00
LCOO3t                                #14                                             4        4 40.00         000      o.0o     O.O      O
La00o3"                               0           1       4                  1        3        2      0.0     0Q13    0Q00       0.00     0.0
1.5S     1.36     1.2      1.27     1.CM
2.       LOCOIS         ARO     NO. OF          #l:       24       27       32       36       35       36      0.6      0.74     0Q8      0.99      0LOB
(.000.6         #Mr.    (0            0.66       6         7        7        7        7        7      0.10     0.12     0.12     0.12     Qt12
L0073                                 0A0        4         1        5       10       10       10      0.11     0.03     0.14     0.3      am
10072                                 amO                                    2        2        2      f.0      0.0      0.00     000      000 
LOCOWBO                               GM         I5       la       21       21       21       21      0.56     0.68     0.79     0.79     0.79
1000.5                                #01        5        5 O                5        5        5      Q03 ..03          000      0.00     0.00
(.00D45                               a01        9        9        14       19       20       20      #05 0o0           0.0      #12      0.12
Uoo.u'                                0.0        4         4        4        4        4        4      0.11     0.11     0.11     0.11    Q011
1.63     1.76     25       2.43    243
&        WAMO           OVB*W. NM OF           0.0         0      300      30       350      350      350      1.68     1.6      16       1.6      1.
.WU     NO.            0.F0    am       2 M   Z Qo         2100     20       20        242       2i       22      212      2.08
&          0A a             AU. NO OF          1101                         10       2D       20       20      0.00     0.00     0.10     O.2D     020
MEMS NM OF             0.QO     1OO       100      100      127      12?      127      #01      0.01 t0.01 Ot      O1      Q01
7.27     7.10     7.37     7.68     8l19
O0NTWir                         0.15                                                            1.09     1.07     1.11     1.15     1.23
8.38     6.17     6.47    6a83      942



- 92 -
Annex 2-11
Page 1 of 4
TANZANIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
THE EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROGRAM FOR TRC (EP)
The EP was based on a ten-point action plan covering (a) Institutional
measures and changes to bolster TRC's cash-generating capacity; (b)
organisational measures to facilitate the effective commercial management
of operating activities; (c) operational measures to facilitate better
utilisation of operating assets; and (d) rehabilitation activities to
improve the condition and availability of key operational and
infrastructural assets. The success of these measures in improving and
sustaining the operating and financial performance of TRC was mixed.
Institutional Measures. Three key measures were proposed to improve
TRC's cash-generating capacity: (a) immediate tariff increases averaging
about 602 for freight traffic and about 100l for passenger services; (b)
grant of limited dIscretionary powers to TRC's Board to increase tariffs
without reference to the Minister responsible for the railways and an
explicit statement of the additional increases that can be granted by the
Minister without reference to the Cabinet; and (c) capitalisation of about
US$80 million equivalent of TRC's outstanding foreign currency debt. In
retrospect this approach was inadequate to ensure that TRC's tariffs were
maintained at an an appropriate cost recovery level. The immediate tariff
increases compensated for the erosion of tariffs which had not been
increased for the four previous years and restored TRC's overall tariff
levels to adequate cost (including capital costs) recovery levels, assuming
capacity utilisation was reasonably efficient. However, the discretion
given to TRC to increase tariffs (cumulative 102 p.a.), and the combined
powers of TRC and the Minister to increase tariffs without reference to
Cabinet (201 p.a.), has proven inadequate to protect its cash-generation
against erosion by a subsequently much higher degree of inflation. Tariffs
have only been increased twice since thens once within the discretion of
the Board (102) and another (252) by Cabinet. The key lesson from this has
been that discretionary powers for TRC management has to be set within the
context of what is necessary for it to achieve its commercial objectives.
The commercial objective was implicitly self-sustaining financial
performance and TRC should have been granted unambiguous powers to achieve
it. This is particularly Important, since discretionary powers expressed
as rules could easily lose their relevance in a dynamic economic
environment. Finally, only a fraction of the proposed capitalisation was
eventually effected. The real reason for the proposed capitalisation in
the action plan was to limit tariff increases subsequently required by
providing an implicit subsidy to TRC's capital costs. As it happens the
Ministry of Finance has been unwilling to bear this liability explicitly.
Since TRC has been insufficiently cash-generative due to inadequate assets
utilisation and tariffs, it has had little option but to build up areas of
debt service which will now have to be borne by Government or paid for
through tariff increases by railways users.   The main lesson from this is
that debt servicing difficulties reflect a number of structural problems:
poor pricing structure, inadequate utilisation of capacity, unproductive
assets financed by dett that create claDms on cashflows generated by
productive assets, mismatched assets financing i.e financing long-lived
assets constituting significant proportions of capital employed with
relatively short term debt. Capitalisations can only address the problems
created by inappropriate debt financing or imprudent Investments financed



- 93 -
Annex 2-11
Page 2 of 4
by debt. Used as a panacea for other structural problems, it would serve
only to reduce the entity's capacity to be financially self-sustaining.
Orzanisational Measures. The action plan proposed the following main
organisational measuress (a) institution of corporate and departmental
operations improvement plans; (b) divisionalization of hotels and catering
services and roads services; and (c) rationalization of manpower levels and
improvements in remuneration.   Corporate and Departmental Improvement
Plans: Some efficiency targets were set for most of the operating
departments. However, this process had severe flaws. No analytical work
appeared to have been done to determine the feasibility or optimality of
the plans. Whether slack or tight, the plans had no operational
significance since input requirements and input productivity underlying the
plans were never well-defined and causes for underachievement of plans
could never be determined. No manager was held accountable for the
achievement of plans. These problems carried over to the overall corporate
targets (traffic carried, financial performance). There was no supportable
view of what could be achieved with available resources. Consequently, the
objectives were largely meaningless other than as relatively arbitrary
performance yardsticks. Given the lack of control of the underlying
departmental performance, no effective control could be exercised over the
overall performnace of the corporation even if the stipulated objectives
were optimal. The one successful area of improvements was in the
accounting department where reasonably designed plans to eliminate the
backlog of accounts were drawn up and responsibility for achievement of
this objective was clearly assigned and the planned objective was
substantially achieved. The key lesson learnt from this is that corporate
and operations improvement initiatives can only be succesful if based on
well articulated plans, with explicit assumptions about resources
requirements and productivity and whose key elemnts are susceptible to
monitoring. Also, responsibility for the achievement of the plans'
objectives must be clearly assigned. Divisionalisation: the steps actually
taken were limited to accounting separately for the direct costs and the
revenues of the non-railways services and granting limited procurement
autonomy to the hotels'local management. The hotels and cater:Lng and the
roads services performance continued to deteriorate. The effective
capacity of the roads service continued to decline sharply as it proved
unable to generate sufficient resources to maintain its vehicles, let alone
replace the life-expired ones. The physical condition of most of the
hotels deteriorated and the marine services performance were shored-up by
considerable external assistance. Lesson learnt: divisionalisation could
only be an effective measure to reverse the performance of the services if
two conditions were present: (a) the divisional managers were granted
sufficient autonomy to operate commercially; and (b) headquarters staff
understood the nature of the businesses and could set, monitor and control
appropriate performance standards. At initiation of the EP, IDA was
sceptical of the existence of both conditions. Disengagement of TRC
management from the operation of the roads, hotels and caterlng services,
wh:ch have little operational complementarity with the core railways
service, faced considerable political opposition at the time but was
considered Imperative if the divisionalisation proposal failed to be
satisfactorily implemented.  In a sense, this position has proved expensive
in terms of the subsequent losses incurred by the services and the
mangerial attention diverted from the core railways services. Manpower



- 94 -
Annex 2-11
Page 3 of 4
Measures: A limited incentives program was established for the workshops
staff about three years into the implementation of the EP and after
considerable pressure from the donors. TRC has encountered considerable
difficulties financing this scheme. This has probably undermined the
credibility and motivational effect of the scheme with its staff. No
effective action was taken to fulfill the proposal of the action plan to
start on a program of staff reduction until three years into the EP when
TRC action to implement staff reductions in areas of considerable
overstaffing identified by it was made a condition for negotiations of this
proposed project. Measures were proposed to be undertaken to strengthen
TRC's capacity to recruit staff in areas of shortage. TRC has however, not
been proactive in designing or implementing remuneration packages to enable
it to compete effectively for skilled staff.  It has relied instead on
adjusting salaries as prescribed by national statutory bodies. These
adjustments have barely been sufficient to enable salaries to keep pace
with inflation. They have not addressed the core problem of severely low
salaries, relative to other industries in the public and private sectors.
Operational Measures: The main operational measure to be implemented under
the action plan was the removal of scrap or defective wagons from the major
terminal yards in Dar es Salaam. The capacity of the yards had been
progressively reduced by the storage of scrap or defective wagons on
operational lines, limiting manouevrability in the yasds and contributing
significantly to wagon detentions and to reduction in TRC's effective
capacity. Little effective action to clear the yards of non-functional
wagons was taken during the program. It took two years and pressure from
the donors for a monitorable program to remove such wagons from the yards
to areas where they would not inhibit smooth train opei -7ons was drawn-
up.  The actual process of removal was slowed by lack       Lmely
availability of inputs.  In the meantime, the program .  scrap sales has
only been recently decided after years of debate on the appropriateness of
international or domestic tenders. Lesson: Given the importance of this
program for TRC's effective capacity, a detailed action plan should have
been agreed from the start. This should have enumerated the priority as
removal of non-functional wagons from the lines and specified a time frame
for such action after agreeing on the manpower and material resources
available for this. A time frame should then have been agreed upon within
which the disposal options would have been settled and a disposal time
schedule for the options agreed. Responsibility for the implementation of
the different aspects of the plan should then have been firmly fixed. The
program as structured relied wholly on TRC management initiative which
tended to be mirred in bureaucratic tangles and had no focus
Rehabilitation Activities: The rehabilitation program was to cover wagons,
locomotives and track. In addition, technical assistance was to be
provided to assist in managing the sub-projects within the program and
consultants were to be employed to define a future program of
rehabilitation and new investments as well as areas for institutional
strengthening. Some container wagons were to be procured under the
program. Implementation of the pro;gram was expected to take about two and
a half years. The program has been substantially completed with a time lag
of about one year. The lag in implementation was due mainly to procurement
delays for the various components. The number of serviceable operational
assets increased as envisaged under the program. However, the impact of



- 95 -
Annex 2-11
Page 4 of 4
this on TRC's capacity was offset by two factors: (a) follow-up maintenance
of the rehabilitated assets and of the other assets not included in the
program was not as effective as it could have been, reducing the
availability of assets as a whole; this problem was exarcebated by the high
rate of accidents on the system rendering rehabilitated assets
unserviceable; (b) utilisation of assets in revenue service deteriorated.



TANZANJi: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TANZANIA RAILWAY CORPORATION
TRACK REHABILITATION PROGRAM
SECTION TO 8E  LENGTH   TflAFFiC| EXISTING EXPECTEO  F.j        Pi bi      COST    CUMULATIN    % OF   PRIORITY
REHASIUTATED      KM    MILON T   SPEEO    SPEE                        MILLION TSH     COST      TOTAL
718                  10       0.7       10        48        1        79         69.9      69.90        1
42D                   5       1.9       1S        45        1       115         36.6     106.50        1 SECTIONS
410                  17       1.9       1S        48        1        66        223.4     329.90        2 WITH
52A                  10       1.7       20        56        1       37         147.6     477.50        3 CURRENT
62A                  40       1.7       20        56        1        34        640.6    1118.10        8 SPEED <
72A                  20       0.7       20        48        1         9         470     1588.10       11 20 KM
91X                  so         1       15 |      S       0.88      576         59.7    1647.80       12         2
328                  25       1.5       10        40      0.88      140        176.6    1824.40       13 SPEED c -
228                   S       1.5       10        48      0.69      117          35      1859.40      13 20 KM
528                  10       1.7       10        48      0.43       74         78.7    1938.10       14 IN NEXT
458                  17       1.9       10        44      0.33       55_ 55    150.1    2088.20       15 3 YEARS
92X                 100         1       30        56      0.69      205         52.1    2140.30       15         3
92X                 100         1       30        S6      0.61      181         52.1    2192.40       16
92X                 100         1       30        52      0.54      146         52.1    2244.50       16 AS PER
63C                 130       1.7       35       S5       0.76      134        137.5    2382.00       17
54C                  63       1.7       30        48      0.48      128         50.3    2432.30       18 P1
44C                 180       1.9       35        44      0.54       76        142.7    2575.00       19
43E                  1S       1.9       30        48      0.78       71         39.2    2614.20       19
21D                   5       1.5       30        48      0.78       52         14.2    2628.40       19
24C                 170       1.2       40        52      0.48       42        134.6    2763.00       20
23C                  30         1       40        56      0.48       32         31.7    2794.70       20
76C                 123       0.7       30        48      0.68      31         240.9    3035.0        22
33X                  34       1.5       35        40      0.29       28          19     3054.60       22
74C                  40       0.7       30        48      0.78       26        104.2    3158.80       23
730                  40       0.7       30        48      0.78       21         130     3288.80       24
75C                  97       0.7       30        48      0.78      21         315.4    3604.20       26
64A                  91       1.7       20        56      0.78       24       1646.2    5250.-40      3          4 REQUIRES ECONOMIC
IlA                  50       1.7       20        56      0.78       20       1054.6    6305.00       46          ANALYSIS FOR EAC. I
6SA                  20       1.7       20        S6      0.76       20        433.2    6738.20       49          SECTION
7A                   51       0.7       20        48      0.78        7        1226     7964.20       58
78A                  40       0.7       20        48     0.72        6         948.8    8913.00       65
34A                  63       1.5       20        40      0.29       5         1310    10223.00       74 NOT   S
79A            u     40       0.7       20        48      0.43       4         831.2   11054.20       80 JUSTIFIED
710A                 40       0.7       20        48      0.43       4         831.2   11885.40       86
1120                 51       0.2       20        32      0.48      17          53.7   11939.10       86        6
I11A                 57       0.2       10        32     0.78        1 t        582    12521.10       91
105A                 se       0.2       15       32      0.69       12         358.6   12879.70       93
104A                 48       0.2       15        24     0.88        9         242.4   13122.10       95          BRANCH LINES TO
103A                 48       0.2       15       24      0."8        9         242.4   13364.50       97          BE FINALLY                  0
102C                 28       0.2       20        32      0.78      28          29.6   13394.10       97          SCRAPPED                    X
I0tE                184       0.2       10_      15         1       29         417.2   13811.30 __  100  _  _                                 .
13811.3
NOTES:         1 Fl DENOTES THE FACTOR FOR DETERMINING THE PRESENT VALUE OF FUTURE INVESTMENT
bl PI DENOTES THE PRJORITY FACTOR FOR DIFFERENT SECTIONS
Pi - NTKMl(COST OF REHABILTATION) EXPECTE0 REDUCTION IN TRAVEL TIME ^F1



- 97 -
TANZANIA: RAILWAY3 RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                      Annex 3-2
LOCOMOTIVE REBUILDINGIRENABILITATk)N PROGRAM
LOCO         TYPE OF                       NUMBER DURING
CLASS        SERVICE         1990      1991     1962     1993      1994     1995   TOTAL
88       MODIFICATION                    12       14        9                          35
88       REBUILD                          1        1        1                           3
REHABIUTATION                            3         4                           7
TOTAL                  0        1         4        5        0         0       10
73       REBUILD                                                                        0
REHABILITATION         1        4        5                  3        2^       10
TOTAL                  1        4         5        0        0         0       10
72       REBUILD                                                                        0
REHABILITATION                                             1V        V*        0
TOTAL                  0        0        0         0        0         0        0
64      .8EBUILD                3        3         2        2                          10
REHABIUTATION                                                                  0
_TOTAL                 3         3        2        2         0        0        10
38       REBU;LD                                                                        0
REHABILITATION                  5        S         1                          11
.   TOTAL                  0        5         S        1        0         0       11
Decision on rehabilitation to be taken after a separato
detailed techno-economic analysis for each locomotive
LOCOMOTIVE PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
LOCO         TYPE OF                       NUMBER DURING
CLASS        SERVICE         1990      1991     1992     1993      1994     1995   TOTAL
88              E               3         3        3        3        3         3        18
D               2        6         6        8        9         9       40
A,B,C           178      190      247       285      289      289      1478
87              E               1                                                       1
A,B,C,D          61        84       84        84       84       84       481
73              D                                           1        4         5        10
A,B,C            14                20        39       52        53      178
72              D                                                     1        1        2
A.,BC                                        22       22        22       66
64            W5,W6             8         8        8        8         8        8        48
W2,W3,W4          172      252       338      360      360       360     1842
37             W5               1         4                 1         3        2        11
W2W3.W4           64       64        64       64       64        64      384
36              G                                                     4        4         8
A,B,C,D,E,F       180      200       320      537      560       560     2357
35CDE                                                              4      6841
A,B,C.O.E,F       114       114      114      114       114      114      684



TANZANIA          98
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                          Annex 3-3
LOCOMOTIVE AVAILABILITY & REQUIREMENT . MAIN LINE
1.1  LOCOMOTIVE AVAILABIUTY %
CLASS   MAXIMUM        TRAIUNG O        FLEET                   AVAILABIUTY (%) 88
TRACTIVE EFFORT LOADILOCO           SIZE     1090     199t     1092     1093     1994      1995
(KCF)           (nnos)
88          35000         1200          35       53       61       67        72       75       75
67          27215         1000           7       50       ^7       71        71       71       71
73          24420         700           15       29       33       33        38       40       40
72          18150         860            2        0        0        0        75       75       75
64          12500         500           21       42       55       65        72       75       75
Now          35000         1200           9                                   33       75       75
O Al 1% gradIent                 * ARITHMAtlC MEAN OF AVAILABILITY
EXPECTED AT THE BEGINNING a END OF YEAR
1.2  LOCOMOTIVE AVAILABIUTY (NO.)
CLASS   MAXIMUM        TRAiJUNG         FLEET          AVAILABILITY IN NUMBERS
TRACTIVE EFFORT LOAD/LOCO          SIZE     1990      1991     1992     1993      1994     1995
(KOF)          (tonnes)
88          35000         1250          35       19       21       23        25       26       26
87          27215         1000           7        3        5        5         5        6        5
73          24420         650           1S        4        5        5         5        a        6
72          18150         S0             2        0        0        0         2        2        2
64          12500         450           21        9       12        14       15       16       16
New          35000         1200                    0        0        0         3        7        7
2.1 LOCO REQUIREMENT (NO.)
CLASS
TYPE OF SERVICE             BASIS OF
ASSESSMENT
12       9         8        7        6         4
86 BLOCK &TRANSIT             MOOEL               8       10       14        17       21       26
87 PASSENGER TRAINS           TRAIN LINKS         8        8        8         8        8        8
73 DEPARTMENTALTRAINS         WORKLOAD            4        4        5         6        6        6
72 BANKING                    PROVISION           I        I        I         I        I        1
64 PICK-UPTRAINS              MODEL              29       22       19        17       14        10
New                                                0        0        0         0        0        0
3.1 LOCO SURPLUS(+)ISHORTFALL(-)
CLASS
88                                               11       11        0         8        5        0
87                                               65       -3       .3        .3       .3       *3
73                                                0        1        .0       .1        0        a
72                                               .1       .1       *1         1        1        1
64                                              .20       .10       46       .2        1        6
Now                                                0        0        0         3        7        7
3.2 LOCO SURPLUS(+)/SHORTFALL(-) -TYPE 88 EQUIVALENT-
CLASS
88                                               11       11        9         8        5        0
87                                               .4       .3       .3        .3       .3       .3
73                                                0        1        40       40        0        0
72                                               .1       .1       .1         0        0        0
64                                              -4        -4       *2        .1        1        3
New                                                0        0         0        3        7         7
TOTAL                                                .2       4         4        8        10        7
ADO FOR OPERATIONAL FLEXIBILITY                         .3       .3       .3       .3        .3       .3
NET SHORTAGE OF LOCOS-IN-USE                           .8         1        1        5         7        4
NET SHORTA( I OF LOCOS4ON.LINE                        .6.48    1.23      1.03     4.87     7.31     4.31
(Aauming 75% AvalabIlw
- EQUIVALENT NUMBER  F fLEET SIZE
TRACTIVE EFFORT/TE OF LOCO 88



_ 99 -
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 9
TANZANTA RAILWAYS CORPOtATION
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ManaRement Support and Develoment
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
1.             The Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) intends to undertake the
Railways Restructuring Project (RRP) during the period 1990-95 with the main
objective of becoming a viable self-sustaining entity, operated on sound
commercial principles to the benefit of the economy of the country by providing
economical and efficient means of transport in an environment of competition and
complementarity with other transport modes, both for domestic as well as
international traffic. The Government of Tanzania intends to obtain assistance
for the Project from the World Bank and other bilateral and multilateral
international financing agencies for carrying out the Project.
Manaaement Support and Development
2.             In view of: (a) the heavy worklcad of project execution combined
with s,;stems and efficiency improvements, (b) the major challenge of management
of change, (c) the need to set up proper and modern systems to suit the major
restructuring exercise, and (d) the close and constant coordination required
among the departments, TRC considers it necessary to obtain the services of
consultants to assist the management in carrying out the Project and attaining
its objectives.
Guiding Principles in the Structure of the Planned Technical Assistance
3.             The group of consultants must be found from one source or group
having the back up of an established railway system or systems, which has/ have
experience of undertaking similar changes and successfully managing change.
There must be a reservoir of management talent with the Consultant or the
railways concerned to provide competent staff, to effect changes in composition
of the team as and when needed, and to provide overseas training support for TRC
management officers.
4.             TRC will be actively involved in the selection of the individual
consultants from a panel to be proposed by the firm, usually of three candi-
dates for each post.
5.             The duration of t.Le T.A. is expected to be a period of about four
years, with three phises - the first for one year, the second for two years and
the third for one year. There will be reviews at the end of each year to assess
the effectiveness and success of the functioning of the T.A. to decide on any
corrections or modifications in the system that may be found necessary.
6.             The individual consultants will work in close coordination with
the TRC managers corresponding to their disciplines. Some ox the consultants
will be in line management positions and will be responsible for the running of
the department efficiently, carrying out the respective components of the Project
and attaining the micro and macro targets, designing, testing, installing and



- 100 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 9
establishing the system changes necessary and responsible for setting up adequate
monitoring systems for performance, production and quality control.   These
consultants will have designated counterpa:ts. The rest of the consultants will
have primary responsibility for developing, documenting and monitoring the
implementation if systems and procedures in their respective departments.
7.             The individual coneultants will maintain detailed diaries of work
done and interaction with TRC management officers, which will be initialled
weekly by the TRC officers concerned.
8.             At the end of each quarter, each consultar.t/TRC group will prepare
a joint report covering progress of work compared to the workplan, reasons for
variations and urgent action needed to be taken by top management. The report
will also include the detailed workplan for the rnext quarter. The consultant
will also comment on the interaction with the TRC officers, highlighting any
points where management counseling is called for in a separate report addressed
to the DO.   The TRC officers working with the consultant will also prepare
interaction reports every quarter to submit to their respective superior
officers.
9.             In  addition  to  the  consultants  defined  in  this  terms  of
references, TRC will also be recruiting, separately, specialists to assist in
developing financial management systems and procedures, management accounting
and budgetary control systems and in rationalising and strengthening its supplies
management systems and practices. These consultants will be formally part of
the management support unit and will be o.abject to the same defined guidelines
and reviews as would the group identified in these terms of references.  The
groups constituting the m&..agement support unit will be expected to co-operate
fully to achieve the corporate objectives of TRC.   To !nsure that these
objectives are achieved on a running basis and to assist in co-ordination, TRC
will also be recruiting, on an individual basis, an experienced railways
specialist with a strong general management background, to assist the Director
General and the Deputy Director of TP.C in devising systems and procedures for
monitorinj the achievement of key corporate goals and targets and in identifying
weaknesses in the implementation of the restructuring program and appropriate
remedial measures.



- 101 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 9
Phasnkg and Content of the Technical Assistance
Phase I:
10.      The first phase vill commence with a Team consisting of the following
members:
Function                              No.
Traffic Operations Planning                       1
Commercial Management                             1
Planning & Quality Assurance (Locomotives)        1
Planning & Quality Assurance (Rolling Stock)      1
Mechanical Equipment Maintenance                   1
Telecoms Engineering                              1
Civil Engineering                                 1
Supplies Management                               1
Manpor Development                               1
Corporate Planning                                1
Safety/Accident Relief Specialist                 1
Zonal Management                                  1
Total  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
11.      The Traffic Operations Planning Specialist will work with the Chief
Traffic Manager and her management team and be responsible for the following
major tasks:
(i)      Devising procedures for the effective implementation of the Operations
Improvement Plan (OIP) and the monitoring of results thereof;
(ii)      Detailed formulation of yard working instructions, train order systems
and wagon allotment systems;
(iii)      Formulation of the content of revised General and Subsidiary Rule Bocks
for operations and the Working Time Table of TRC;
(iv)      Central Operations Planning and coordination of the operations between
the proposed Zones;



- 102 -
Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 9
(v)      Formulation of procedures and systems to ensure close liaison with the
Commercial Branch to ensure the attainment of commercial objectives;
(vi)      Interdepartmental coordination procedures and systems, especially with
the Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Signal/Telecommunica-
tions branches;
(vii)      Organizing proper interface operations with the ports, customers and
other  transport  operators  including  neighboring  railways  for
streamlining  operations  and monitoring  them,  with  provision  for
accountability for delays and defaults on either side.
12.            The Planning and Quality Assurance Specialists for the Mechanical
Engineering Department will work jointly with the Chief Mechanical Engineer and
his management team and they will undertake the following major tasks:
(i)      Formulation of planning and control procedures and related systems for
the implementation of the OIP in so far as it concerns the Mechanical
Engineering branch and monitoring of results thereof;
(ii)      Ensuring the adoption and availability of quality control procedures
and systems for all works with special reference to locomotive
reliability and safe operation of rolling stock;
(iii)      Minitoring and control systems for fuel and lubricants;
(iv)      Ensuring adequate planning and implementation tracking systems are in
place for timely, correct and complete execution of Preventive
Maintenance Schedules, and repair, rehabilitation and overhaul programs
for locomotives, rolling stock and equipment;
(v)      Interdepartmental coordination systems, with special reference to the
Traffic and Supplies branches;
13.            The Civil Engineering Specialist will work jointly with the Chief
Civil Engineer, TPC and his management team and will be responsible for the
following major tasks:
(i)      Assist in strengtnening scheduling and monitoring systems for the
implementation of the track rehabilitation and renewal program;
(ii)      Ensuring the presence of adequate systems for the timely, correct and
complete execution of preventive maintenance of permanent way,
structures and bridges;
(iv)      Ensuring quality control of work with special reference to the safety
aspects;



- 103 -
Annex 3-4
Page 5 of 9
(v)      Planning  and  setting up of a Bridge  Inspection ant. maintenance
organization and supportive systems and procedures on TRC;
(vi)      Setting up of a Permanent Way workshop as planned in the RRP for
reclamation of sleepwrs and points and crosses.
14.                  The ,.r.   ical Equipment Maintenance Specialist will be
responsible for the follrv    tasks:
(i)      Establishing pri..,idu e;  for the  tracking of plant  and equipment
systemwide;
(iL)      Establishing systems ar.d procedures for the recording and monitoring
of the availability of all plant and equipment and of their use;
(iii)      Formulating policy with respect to preventive and periodic maintenance
schedules for all categories of plant and equipment;
(iv)      Review the capacity of existing maintenance facilities to undertake the
maintenance of different categories of plant and equipment or
subassemblies or components of such parts;
(v)   Establish systems and procedures to ensure the timely execution of
maintenance schedules and repairs to acceptable quality standards and
complementary systems for the analysis and remedy of failures.
15.            The Safety Officer will work directly under the DDG and will
assist him in establishing a safety cell and the procedures to govern the
organisation and work of this unit. His work will include the following:
(i)   Establishing the framework for the analysis of the main causes of
accidents and derailments and the corrective actions to be taken to
prevent the recurrence of such accidents;
(ii)  Undertake the first set of analyses of accident and derailment incidents
in conjunction with designated counterparts;
(iii) Write simple set of instructions for different categories of workers
for improving safety consciousness and practices;
(iv) Identify equipment needs for effective handling of accidents; determine
the optimal location of key pieces of accident relief equipment to
ensure effective responses to accidents or derailments systemwide; and
the standards with respect to mobilization of equipment;
(v)   Prepare the regulations governing the secondment of staff from the
operating departments to the safety unit;
16.            The Commercial Management Specialist will work with the Commercial
Manager of TRC to set up the Commercial Branch and organize the Marketing and
Transport Pricing sections. He will advise TRC management on commercial and



- 104 -
Annex 3-4
Page 6 of 9
pricing strategies, and liaison with customers, paying special attention to
quality of service. Special attention will be paid to block train facilitation
and confidential contracting for traffic and tariffs. He will establish liaison
procedures with the Accounting and Finance Department and the Market Research
Unit in the Corporate Planning Group of ?RC. He will assist TRC to develop
procedures for traffic and revenue forecasts for TRC's budget.
17.            The Manpower Development Specialist will work jointly with the
Manpower Manager of TRC and they would be responsible for carrying out the
following major tasks:
(i)      Implementation of the Staff Reduction Plan of TRC;
(ii)      Preparation of annual Training Programs and monitoring of implementation
thereof;
(iii)      Formulation of TRC policies for recruitment, promotion, progression
streams, retirement and rotation;
Uv)       Ensuring compliance with Labor Laws including safety regulations;
(v)      Monitoring and coordination of Incentive Studies and schemes.
18.            The Corporate Planning Specialist will work with TRC's Corporate
Planning Unit (CPU) and undertake Railway Transport Planning and Corporate
Development. He will initially assist in the setting up of this unit, selecting
its staff and organizing its work. The Unit will include a Market Research Group
(MRG), as well as the Efficiency Cell (EC).  The MKG will undertake market
research with the objective of improving TRC's commercial performance and work
in close liaison with the Marketing and Transport Pricing Units in the Conuercial
Branch. The CPU will undertake the preparation of investment programs, including
the appraisal and evaluation of all projects involved. A Traffic Forecasting
Model will be designed and detailed documentation will be prepared.
19.            The Zonal Management specialist will assist the Deputy Director
General in establishing the Zonal system of working in accordance with the TRC
Decentralization Plan. His task will include establishing the procedures and
modalities for coordination, monitoring and control of the functioning of the
departments in the zone, and interaction with neighboring zones and the
headquarters of TRC. He will ensure that the technical standards set down by
the headquarters technical departments are strictly observed and that there are
adequate procedures for headquarters monitoring of compliance without intrusion
into the day-to-day operating mandate of the zones. He will assist the new zonal
managers to organize the functioning of the zones in accordance with the budget
allotment and prepare forward budgets as per time schedules laid down by TRC
management.   The progressive devolution of powers to the zones should be
effectively used to decentralize decision making as envisaged in the
Decentralization Plan. He will ensure that the line and staff functions of the
headquarters vis-a-vis the zones are correctly understood by the zonal officers
to avoid conflicting activities.



- 105 -
Annex 3-4
Page 7 of 9
20.            The Team will work harmoniously with the various T.A. groups
funded by various financing agencies, and assist the TRC managers working with
them to coordinate and monitor these activities. The members will pay special
attention to the inspection systems on TRC at all levels and organize effective
systems of inspection and follow-up action.   They will lay great stress on
accountability and the hierarchy of accountability within TRC and specify the
clear lines and procedures to follow to inculcate the culture of accountability.
They will aid TRC managers in the proper exercise of the delegated powers and
in quick and effective decision making.  They will be economy-conscious and
examine cost-effectiveness in all their proposals.
21.            Within two months of the arrival of the Team in Tanzania, the
Consultants will undertake a quick diagnostic study of the existing systems and
procedures, as well as the management expertise available and will submit an
Inception Report to the DG, covering the results of this study and their plan
of action with a time frame, covering all phases of the MSD program. This plan
of action will be examined by TRC management and the final plan of action agreed
upon by the end of the first quarter. Thereafter, the Team will work to the
agreed plan.
22.            At the end of the first year of work, the Team Leader will submit
the Annual report covering the activities, achievements, and shortfalls, with
the updated plan of action for the Phase II.
Phase Ili
23.            The functioning of the MSD T.A. program will be reviewed at the
end of Phase I by a tripartite body comprising the DG, the World Bank and the
consulting firm. Based on this review, a decision will be taken on the mid-
course corrections, if any, including the composition of the Team. The annual
leave of all the members, excepting the PCU and the Zonal Management experts
(who, in any case are scheduled to be in position for one year only) will be
availed of during the thirteenth month of the consultancy. This will give an
opportunity to the DG to assess the independent performance of the TRC management
officers associated with the Team. Phase II should effectively conmence from
the fourteenth or fifteenth month of the Consultancy.
24.            The activities during Phase II, which will last for two years,
will follow, in general, the same pattern as in Phase I, in continuation, except
for discrete items which would have been completed, with suitable modifications
resulting from the end-of-phase review at the end of the first year. The number
of members is planned to be the same as in Phase I, but may be increased or
reduced based on the findings of the first annual review. Periodical reporting
will be on the same lines as in Phase I.
Phase Ills
25.            At the end of Phase II, there will be a review similar to that
at the end of Phase I and, based on the rev mw, the composition of the team for
Phase III will be decided upon. It is estimated that about five man-years of
T.A. will be required for Phase TIT.



- 106 -
Annex 3-4
Page 8 of 9
Trainig Supports
26.            During the course of the Consultancy, TRC management will make
decisions on specific and specialized training programs needed for their
individual managers overseas in the railway system supporting the Consultant
firm, and such training will be provided by the firm at reasonable notice. It
is estimated that about 20 courses of three months each will be needed.  The
Consultant firm and the trainee will submit training evaluation reports to TRC
as and when an individual officer has completed a course.
27.            TRC will organize specialized courses in the Railway Training
College with visiting Instructors from the Consulting firm as needed, and the
latter should provide these services at reasonable notice. In such instances,
the visiting Instructors should leave behind detailed documentation and
instructional material for the course, as well as an evaluation of the individual
trainees. It is estimated that about ten visits of an average duration of six
weeks each will be required.   The visiting instructors should be recognized
experts with proven track records in their respective fields.
General _ualifications of Consultants:
28.            In general, the maximum age limit at the beginning of their terms
should not exceed 55 years. In exceptional cases, outstanding track record and
professional ability can permit relaxation up to 60 years.
29.            The Consultants should have good University degrees or equivalent
professional qualifications/affiliations in their respective fields.
30.            The  Consultants   should  have  held  senior  positions  of
responsibility in railway management for at least ten years, and should have
proven track records of success in management, with particular reference to the
type of change envisaged on TRC.
31.            The work would call for intensive field work and the Consultants
should be in robust health to undertake arduous duties.
32.            Experience in and exposure to a working environment similar to
that obtaining in Tanzania will be an important added qualification.
Specific Qualifications of Consultants:
33.            Traffic Management Consultants: They must have held senior manage-
ment positions with specific responsibilities and track records of achievement
of time-bound programs similar to TRC's OIP and of interface operations with
other transport modes and operator (waterways and ports, specifically), as well
as international transit traffic operations and facilitation. They must have
worked in a decentralized environment with specific line and staff functions.
34.            Mechanical and Civil Engineering Consultantst They must have held
senior management positions with specific responsibilities for rehabilitation



- 107 -
Annex 3-4
Page 9 of 9
programs for locomotives and rolling stock and track, respectively. They must
have a track record of working rigorous quality assurance systems and inspection
arrangements.
35.            Comiercial Management Consultants  He should have held a senior
managerial position with responsibilities for tariffs, marketing and customer
relations. He must have a track record of having achieved results in his field.
He must be fully conversant with railway costing systems and procedures and be
familiar with traffic operations and allied parameters.
36.            Manpower Development Consultants le mr-   have held a senior
managerial position with responsibilities for manpower pLanning and development,
establishing of incentive schemes, staff redundancy, redeployment and retraining
schemes. le must have a track record of success in these fields as well as in
labor relations.
37.            Corporate Planning Consultant: le must have professional qualifi-
cations in Transport Economics. le must have headed a Railway Planning Unit with
a track record of Corporate Planning, Project Evaluation and Appraisal, Market
Research and Efficiency Studies.
38.            Zonal Management Consultant:  He should have worked as head of
a railway division, controlling all the functional departments within it. He
must have proven track record of successful implementation of programs to improve
operational efficiency, interdivisional coordination, field marketing work,
customer and labor relations and management of change. Specific experience in
a decentralized program will be an extra qualification.
Other Requirements
39.            The consulting firm  may be required to furnish p-s -.janel for
short-term consultancies and studies as may be found necessary by TRC during the
project execution stage, and a lump sum provision for about 18 man-months has
been made for this purpose.



- 108 -                                      Annex 3-S
Paee I of 2
TANZANIA
RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Ead  PectCos
Fo       Loca   Towl Foeign   Local   Tota
(US$ mUion)           (TSH m_o)
A.       Pennanent Way
A.1       Track Rehabltawlon                      24.80   50.50   75.30   4611   8797  1460
A.2      Bdgoe SvenUieln                          11.55   13.05   24.60   2241   2532   4773
A.3       TrackMMainLance6quipmont                 6.05    0.61    6.66   1174    117   1291
A.4      Troleys                                   1.72    0.17    1.88    333     33    367
A.5      Son QuaTos                                3.58    0.34    3.82    695     66    760
A.6       Plant MMiitwc Depot                      4.37    1.60    5.97    84     310   1156
A.7      Track Tr"Ouellalon Suppon                 0.90    210    3.00    175    407    S62
Subtota ses Coats                       52.97   66.37  121.34  10270  13284  23540
PT"sSca Contingencies                    7.95   10.26   16.20   1541  1t90   3531
Prie Esoalan                            13.41   17.38   30.72   2502   3356   5860
TOTAL                    74.33   95.94  17026  14419  16611  33031
S.       Locomosivec
a.1      RehabillUdWin Class 36                    3.60    0.36    3.90    696     70    766
8.2      Rhabufwon.Clanss64                        1.20    0.12    1.32    233     23    256
8.3      Rbuild. Class 66                          2.40    0.25    2.74    464     48    532
8.4      Rehabhkfia-CU  m66                        1.15    0.11    1.27    223     22    245
Subtob Son Coas                          8.44    0.64    .29   1639    164   1802
PYyski caConUnwenso                      1.27    0.13    1.30    246     26    270
Prb Escaalbon                            1.08    0.11    1.18    209     21    230
TOTAL                    10.76    1.06   11.06   2092    209   2301
C.       Roltng SOtak
C.1      PahaMblltanofpWagon.                     4.,6    a49    5.34    942      94   1036
C-2      Converson- 200 Flat Wagons                0.06    0.40    0.46     16     78      93
C.3       Refwbishmet  C;oches                     2.00    0.20    2.      366     39    427
C.4      Now Coahes                                8.10    0.81    6.91   1571    157   1729
Subotal Bas  Costa                      15.04    1.90   16.93   2017    366   3265
Physiod Conlide                          228    0.26    2.54    436      55    493
Pflb Esoallen                            267    0.34    3.00    517      66    512
TOTAL                    19.66    2.52   224    2672    466   4360
O.       Mdntants Flfl
0.1      CmR  epotw                                3.84    0.36    4.00    706     71    776
0.2       OSM Wkdtop                               2.30    0.23    2.53    446     45    491
0.3       Cl"eeW Ib                                1.05    0.10    1.15    23      20    223
0.4      AMds   ROW &$*s*                          1.40    0.14    1.54    272     27    299
SuboldsS os                              6311   0.64    0.22   1632    163   1769
Physa  Conlgne                           1.20    0.13    1.3     244      24    266
Prim Escason                             2.12    0.21    233    412      41    453
TOTAL                    11.76    1.16   12.94   M       2      2510
Slnl.T I_ _                V
E.l        efhtban .*1 Norh Uns                    2.45    2.10    4.56    475    407    693
SubtoS    COt                            2.45    210    4.6    475    407    683
Physi  C@fligefdes                       0.37    0.32    0.66     71      61    13
Poce fEcaaion                           0.62    0.53    1.11    120    103    223
TOTAL                     3.44    2.98    .3     67    572   123



- 109 -                                                 Annex 3 5
Pase Z Ot 2
P.       onvOtwgi  d _st
F.1      Oqld_mhil suppmt                          25      1L.00    3s0    45    1"4   6a9
0      0       0
8Mo  ea. Cutb                           I0    1.0    3.50    46        104   6o
ftvwiwc4wi4nd                            0.39    0.15    0.       71     3      102
Pdew mamln                               0.83    025   0.6       123     4      172
TOAL                      3.51    1.40   491    681    273    953
0.       Seiv  VeIN
el       Rad V.doe                                 1.00    0.10    1.10    1M4    1    213
0.2      Rai VNd                                   2 tO0    0.20    2.20    36     39    427
Sklabl Ban cow                           3.00    0.30    2.30    682     56    540
Phyal C*npnd.s                           0.45    0.05   0.0      67       9      so
P,u ESalafin                             0.76    0.09   0 86    147      1?    116
TO-AL                     4.21    0.83    4.64    617     014    6t
M.       tnbnao $Vt
HtI       Quit PM*q EquOnvent                      0.50    0.05    0.56    97      10    107
H.2      CoiIibm & SdiIw.                          3.00    0.30    3.30    682     so    640
St.BeS   " CoIbs                         3.50    0.35   3S86    619      66    747
Phy   CeMnsao_ld                         0.53    0.05    05      102     10    112
Pe" E@s5a n                              089    0.10    0.68    172      20    19
TOTAL                     4.91    0.51    5.42    9       9    1051
L        T    "chnkm Arnlics
1.1      Mm " _mnt0ewhpmeA ts.                     4.91    2.11    7.02    93    409   132
1.2      Fh_AI MgommwSpout                         0.67    0.33    1.00    130     94    104
1.3            sn_v5  SwpO.t                       5.80    2.48    6.2    1124    482   1606
IA       Sun TunrCedlq,y                           0.54    02     0.77    104      45    146
L5       AsusesPb    un                            0.60    0.10   0.60     67      10    116
s8biSlBais Coe                          12.42    6.2   17.6    2408   1016   342
Pnyl CEqngwi.                            1.66    0.70   2.6      361    153    514
Pde Emkmau                               2.20    0.93    3.13    42     160    607
TOTAL                    16.448    .87   24-   3186   13U    44
J.       T,slr4g
J.1      S.minm   &fabwaNpe                        1.00    0.00    1.00    104      0    104
J.2      Arntfor Scpdaed Coues                     0.50    0.50    1.00    07      97    104
J.3      Tm*  G*dpmns                              0.50    0.00    0N      O?       0      07
1.4      Hand-on thfVi  1w dlm                     4.50    0.46   4.6    67        S      on6
Sk6low Bsm Cca                           6.0    0.95    7.      126     164   1445
PhYhuICo_   _snua                        0.86    O.4    1.12    180      21    217
Prim gE_=Usn                             1.49    0.10    1.69    20       o    327
TOTAL                     6-7  1T.0   100.  1740    250   1060
K.       Shbde                                     0J8    0.27   0.0    12         52    175
MOPb MWnbrv
-ed smvel9lh1 4* LOis
OeP & UMab"wim Amd
PaPa. By Rush
C_~~PI
OSm VANP _Ewdno
Si*tm  Bse Cu                           O03    O0    o00    13           5      175
pIyu  Cetiqnie                           0.0    0.04   0.14       16      a      25
Pdm E.emMIsn                             0.04   o03    O.L.3       I      3      11
TOTAL                     0.78    0aa    1.0     140      04    n1
PV.  Toetl Sam Coals                   116.63   62.17  107.9   n470  15041  3411
PhIniCed"Voa"                           17.37   123    3.70   8371   2861   OM
P,ea1bse                                25.01   20.06   45.9   S5      36   89
TOTAL                   150.11  11418  2726   306   2         10
u _. _                   _       _ 



- 110 -
Annex 3-6
TANZANIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estiated Schedule ot Disbur.oemte
(USS million)
Sank Flscal
Year            Quarepr  Date             Disburd          Cuamulativ
1002                2 Dec. 81               1.50             1.60
4  June 80             2.90              4.48
1008                2 Dec. 81               ?.45            11.98
4 June 80              0.71             18.64
1004                2 Dec. 81               7.45            20.09
4 June 80              0.20             84.28
1005                2 Dec. 81               8.94            48.22
4 June 80              7.45             60.67
1006                2 Dec. a1               6.21            "6.
4 June 80              0.70             62.50
1997                2 DOc. 81               4.47            07.06
4 June 80              2.90             70.04
1990                2 DeC. 81               2.08            78.02
4 June 80              1.49             74.51
1900                2 Doe. 81               1.49            70.00



- 111 -
TANRANUAs RAILWAYS RZST1UCTURUNG PRtOJECT
ANNEX 4-1
TANIWIA RAILWAYS CORPORATIONI TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS                  IjTof 9
A.  Methodology
1. An earlier estimate of potential rail traffic was developed by Canadian
Pacific Consultancy Sorvices (CPCS) In 1987. CPCS projected demand to grow
from 1.1 million tonnes in 1990 to 1.4 in 1995. TRC, on the other hand,
estimated 1990 and 1995 traffic on offer to 4 and 6 million tonnes
respectively.
To update, verify and concile the two projections, ten major commodIties
were analyzed, namelys Cement, Coffee, Gypsum, POL, Fertilizers, Phosphate,
Cotton, Maize, Sugar and Transit traffic. Together they reprisent over 70:
of the estimated 1990 traffic demand. Minor comodities were discussed with
TRC and the Ministry of Agriculture.
The traffic forecasts were developed through In depth interviews with major
customers. Specifically, customers were asked to present growth projections
and expected modal spilt. Projections were, together with the interviewee,
compared to past data, as well as to CPCS's and TRC's estimates. Customers
were also asked to elaborate on future expanion plans. If projections
showed large deviations from past trends, feasibility studies and
verification of financial support for expansion plans were requested. The
collected data was thereafter modified in consultations with government
authorities and TRC. This annex sumarizses the overall traffic forecasts
and then describes the underlying assumptions.
B. Sumary
2. Demand for rail troanport os forecast to grow from 1.7 million tonnes in
1990 to 2.2 million tonnes by 1995. If TRC mee   this dmand, it will
represent a compound annual growth rate of 52. Trawit traffic is expected
to grow by 72, while daoestic freight will be confined to 3.82. However, in
the project analysis, it is ssumd that TIC will only slowly build
capacity to meet demand. Not until 1996 does the corporation c&pt%ar. the
full potential. Table I surises actual traffic hauled during  he 1965-
1989 period and table It projects demad and capacity for the 1990-199S
period.



- 112 -
AM= 4-1
Table I                                                                a5331 4-2
Traf f ic Hauled 1985-1989
(1000 toes)
Year:           19sS       1986       1987       1988       1989
Coffee          83         110        54        31         34
Cotton          20         33         91        49         77
Fertilizers    40          49         60        34         43
Mai2e           46         13         27         8          13
Tobacco         16         15         20        8           11
Cement          79         89         94         107        123
Phosphate       25         11         n/a        10        5
P.O.L           125        120        118        111        124
Other           358        253        327        346       264
Transit         142        186        218        224       232
Total           934        879        1009      974        890
Table II
Projected Demand, 1990-1995
(1000 tonnes)
Year:           1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
Coffee          33         33         33         33        33         33
Cotton          60         63         66         68        69         70
Fertilizers    40          30         31        32         33         34
Maize           60         61         64         65        66         68
Tobacco         11         11         12         13        13         14
Cement          225        252        282        316       354        400
Phosphate       42         32         32        33         34         35
P.O.L           303        312       321        331        341        351
Sugar           30         35         38        45         48         SO
Salt            25         26         26         27        28         29
Wheat           30         30         30         30         30         30
Cattle cake    25          26         27         28         29         31
Gypsum          16         17         18         18         19         20
Tlinbez         48         48         48         48         48        48
Rice            80         82         84         87         90         92
Oil seeds       40         41         42         44         45         46
Livestock       30         30         30         31         31         31
Beans           20         21         21         21         22         22
Grains          38         40         40         42         42         44
Tea             4          4          4          4          4          4
Other           206        206        206        206        206        206
Transit         348        372        398        426        450       450
Total           1710       1770       1859       1954       2058       2169
TRC haul        990        1100       1470       1660       1890       2160
C. Domestic freight



- 113 -                              A*=-4-1
Page S 0f 9
3.   Cment.   over the last five years,  aI&l transportation of ement
incaeased by 122 per annum; from 79,000 tonnes in 1985 to 1239000 tonnes In
1989. CPCS projected that TRC9* share of cement transportation would
increass to 223,000 tonnes In 1990, after vhich demand would stabillie. The
one-time jump wa to be caused by the rehabilitation of cement factories in
Dar as Salaam. CPCS argued that additional volume would be restricted bys
(1) continued low utilization of existing plants and, (2) foreign exchange
scarcity hindering increased importation.
Since CPCS made their study in 1987, several factors have changed. Capacity
utilization at the Saruji Corporation (Tanzania's largest cement
manufacturer) - currently at 602 - has and is expected to continue to
increase. By 1995, the Saruji Corporation, expeets production to reach
950,000 tonnes or 852 of capacity. Such an iprovement seem  quite
optimistic. If utilization stays below the 802 mark, total production would
reach 850,000 tonnes. This translates into an annual compound growth rate
of 52. Considering the housing shortage in major cities and pent up demand
In Uganda, a 52 growth rate does not seem unrealistic.
Past and Future Cement Production
Thousand tonnes
F&r.tory             1985      1987       1988      1990       1995
Dar Es Salasm        181       276        361       440        550
Tanga                154       168        171       186        235
Mbeya                42        47         62        72         90
In 1990 local consuption was approximately 609000 townes in Mbeya, 75,000
tomnes In Tang& and 120,000 tones in Dar es Salasm. By 1995, total local
consumption is expected to grow to 400,000 tonme, leaving 430,000 tonnes
on offer to TRC.
In 1989, ThC manged to carry saw 702 of traffic on offer (.3 mdllion
toAess). In 1990, TiC is expected to carry only 452 of the potential
traffic. Saruji hs responded to the current tranportation shortage byt
(1) curtailing production to avoid a stock build-up, and (2) by shifting
some transportation to roads. Had wagons been available, Saruji would have
shipped all its output by train. Given the foreseen operational
Liprovaents, Saruji's t:ansportation and storage problem will ease,



- 114 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 4 of 9
making a further bolstering of production possible. TRC should capture most
of the created traffic.
4. Gypsum.      Demand for gypsum is derived from cement production. As a
rule of thumb, each ton of cement require a gypsum content of some 6-72.
Most of the gypsum is produced domestically, and its production "an be
expected to grow proportionately with cement. In 1989, TRC carried 15,000
tonnes of gypsum. By 1995, demand is projected to have grown to 20,000
tonnes, which gives us a compound annual growth rate of 52.
5. Sugar.       Sugar is currently rationed in Tanzania. In 1989, 90,000
tonnes was domestically produced and an additional 15,000 tonnes was
Imported. By the end of 1990 sugar production should reach the 100,000
tonnes level.
Domestic production is concentrated to three major plants: Kagera, Kidatu
and TPC. Production is expected to grow to 187,000 tonnes by 1995, which
would increse the plant utilization rate from 43S today, to 812 in 1995.
However, increasing production to 187,000 tonnes would require
rehabilitatlon of all three plants. Currently, only the rehabilitation of
Kagera ha left the drawing table. If only one plant is rehabilitated, 1995
output would Increase to 165,000 tonnes.
Of the expected 1990 output of lO0,000 tonnes, 652 will move on road,
leaving 30,000 tonnes on offer to TRC and 5,000 tonnes to TAZARA. The modal
split is not expected to chage by 1995.
6. Fertilizer        During th. past decade, fertilizers have been heavily
subsidised. In 1989, farmers only paid some 202 of fertilizer costs. The
Fecrtillser Marketing Board (FM) will, by 1995, have Increased its prices
to a cost r eovery level. Thus, prices will, in real tems, incre"e by a
factor of five over the next five years. As a result, the Board foreases a
sharp drop In eonsumption.
In 1989, the PMB distributed some 52,000 tonnee of fertilizers, of which
43,000 tonnes were on offer for rall transportation. An fertilize prices
rise, farmers are likely to substitute factory made fertilizers with



- 115 -                                 ANNEX 4-1
.Pas 3 of 9
natural substances. In addition, past overe-onsumption will be  seducodf
However, the revitaliattion of the agricultural sector and the expansion of
cultivated land9 should increase demand. Thus, after a sharp drop in
fertilizer consumption in 1991, demand will once again start to grow. By
1995, FMf projects a demand for rail transportation of 34,000 tonnes.
7. Phosphate         Each ton of fertilizer require 1.6 tonnes of
phosphate. Most of FMB's phosphato is extracted In the Arusha/Tanga area.
The current rail transportation demand is 42,000 tonnes. Due to a lack of
suitable wagons, TRC only carried 4,000 tonnes of phosphate in 1989.
TRC is, however, purchasing x Hopper wagons. Thus, TRC should be able to
capture most of this traffic in 1995. The projected fall in fertilizer
production will reduce the required amount of phosphate in the fertilizer
plants. By 1995, TRC is expected to carry ca 35,000 tonnes of phosphate.
When CPCS made their Interviews, subsidies of fertilizer were expected to
continue. Thus, neither the interviewee noc the conaultantt, foresaw any
decline in production. In light of recert Aevelopments, the CPCS
projections needs to be revised downward4 for both phosphate and
fertilizers.
8. Cotton       Cotton production has remair ti, except for occasional
bumper crops, quite stable over the years. Tzs, expected 1990 cotton
production is 320,000 bales, or 61,000 tonne.s. After the bumper crop in
1987, cotton output wa  curtailed because of a transportation backlog.
Farmers responded with a shift from cash crops to subsistence farming. In
1989, the transportation backlog was finally removed, reducing the Cotton
Marketing Board's (C0B) cah shortage. Thus, CMB should once again ') able
to pay farmes on time, which in itself, should sttmlate production.
Cattle cake and cotton seed productlon usually move In taadem with cotton
output. In 1989, TRC carried 19,000 tonnes of cattle cakel slightly below
transportation on offer. Cattle cake on offer In 1990 is 25,000 tonnes,
expected to increase to 31,000 tonnes by 1995.



- 116 -
F&i07 of 9
National Milling's pyment difflcultieo continues, the foreseen improvemnt
In TIC's compttiive position In the Iong haul segment should make it
possible for the fim to capture the bulk of this market. In 1990, the long
haul seseat consistod of some 30,000 tonnes; expected to lncresse to
33,000 tones by 1993. The sise of the short haul market is approximately
of the sme sie so that of the long dLetance market. Based on interview
with National milling and the Ministry of Agriculture, wheat production and
traffic is expected to grow by 32 per annum over the next five years. As
previously mentioned, the assumption that TRC will capture 1002 of the
short haul segmnt is somewhat optimistic.
11. Other agricultural products    In addition to the above mentioned
crops, TRC carries a fair mount of coffee, rice, oil seeds, tobacco,
livestock and timber. In 1989, aggregate traffic demnad for these products
amounted to 270,000 tonnes. TRC carried S02 of this traffic.
Coffee on offer is mainly from the Arusha district and, to a lesser degree,
from the district south of Kidatu. Previously, coffee from the South was
shipped to curing plants In Arusha and from thereon to Tanga for exports.
The completion of new curing plants In tho Southern district will divert
coffee traffic from TRC to TAZARA. However, output growth in the north is
expected to eompensate for the loss of Kidatu traffic. We expect TRC's
share of coffee transportation to remain at 30,000 tonnes throughout the
1990-1995 period. CPCS did not correctly predict the timing of the lose of
Southern coffee.
TRC carried 21,000 tonnes of livestock in 1989. An additional 9,000 tonnes
was on offer, but, due to wagon scarcity, had to be herded to the coastal
area. Becaue of the poor state of the current breeding stock, the Ministry
of Agricultural does not foresee incresed output over the next five years.
National Milling offered TRC to carry 80,000 tonnes of paddy rice In 1990,
and expects deaund to Increase to 92,000 by 1995. TIC ha accepted to carry
some 17,000 tonnes in 1990. NM's deteriorating finaneial health and the
development of the informal marketing sector, could reduce the projected
amount on offer.



- 117 -                                AM   4-1
Page 6 of 9
Our estimate of cotton production deviate from the CPCS projections for two
re"ons: (1) The CPCS estimates were madi during the bumper crop of 1987.
Thus, the forecat was founded on an unusually high base year. (2) CPCS did
not take Into account CH3's ensuing cash shortage and the production shift
it caused. Nor did they subtract the transportation backlog from the 1987
base year. Consequently, we lowered CPCS's 1995 forecast from 110,000 to
70,000 tonnes.
9. Wheat        During the 1980's, National Hilling (MM), sold 30,000 -
50,000 tonnes of wheat and 200,000 - 300,000 tonnes of maize per year. The
annual figure depends on a number of factors, includings weather ,
productivity improvements, population growth and the development of an
informal market. The growth of the informal market Is likely to be the
factor having the greatest effect on future demand for traffic.
In 1989, TRC had some 30,000 tonnes of wheat on offer. However, National
Millings inability to pay for transportation services forced TRC to curtail
the allocation of wagons. As a result, National Milling was forced to sell
a large portion of its grains to local disttibutors with limited storage
facilities. Local distributors turned to truckers for the redistribution of
the comodity. If the operational improvement plan is successful, TRC could
recapture the diverted 12,000 tonnes of wheat.
10. Maize      Despite Increased maise production, TRC has dramatically
reduced the amount it carries. The reasons were twot (1) small holders
received low priority during times of wagon shortage, and (2) National
Milling experienced a severe cah shortage, making it difficult for tho
firm to pay its creditors on time.
Predicting TRC's share of the transportation market for maize is difficult
for two reasons: (1) National Hilling. survival as a major grain
distributor li, at best, insecure. and (2) the curront fragmentation of the
dlstributlon sector alght divert future traffle from TRC.
Fragmntation of maize production and dlstribution In combination wlth the
deteriorating financial health of National Hilling, makes lt dlfficult to
predict the future percentage of output on offer to TRC. However, even lf



- 118 -                            AN=  4-1
Page 8 of 9
Based on discussions with the Ministry of ASriculture, we have, for the
remaining agricultural products, assumed growth rates of between one and
four percent.
12. POL        The forecast of POL demand, was based on interviews with
BP, CALTEX and Shell. The interviews reinforced the projectic.n presented in
the World Bank's 1989 POL Study. The World Bank team and the Oil
Distributors had agreed on the following data:
White POL Traffic on Offer to TRC
Million Tonnes
1990      1991       1992       1993       1994      1995
Moshe                115        118        120        125        130       135
Dodoma               25         26         27         29        30         31
Isaka                16         16         17        18         19         20
Kigoma               10         11         11         12        13         14
Mikumi                12        12         13         14         15
Mpanda               2.5        3          3.5        3.8       4.0        4.2
Mwanza               59         60         62         65        70         73
Tabora               13         14         15         16        17         18
Black POL            62         64         66        67         70         72
POL transportation is expected to grow at appr'oximately the rate of GDP,
i.e. 3.32. Demand for POL between 1984 and 1988 increased by 132 per annum.
In light of past growth levels, a 3.3 $ growth rate seem  slightly
conservative.
D. Transit traffic
The potential for expanding the volume of transit traffic is large. The
main bottle-neck ha been and is TRC's operational inefficiencies.
Potential Transit Market
Central Corridor                Northern Corridor
1987      1995                  1987       1995
Imports                    186       519                   862        1035
Exports                    132       256                   216        274
According to the Great Lakes Report, traffic on offer to TRC could grow to
750,000 tonnes in 1995. However, this forecast in based on a traffic shift
from Mombasa to Dar es Salaam that might not materialize. Interviews with
several customers - AM!, Uganda Coffee Marketing Board, CKM and STIR -



- 119 -                              AM=9 4.1
Pape 9 of 9
revealed a deep rooted mistrust towards TRC's management and operational
capabilitieso
In 1989, TRC only carried 220,000 tonnes of transit traffic, or 692 of
demand. Due to TRC's past record, customers have started to divert traffic
to Mombasa. Changing customer's attitudes will require time. Thus,
improving TRC's efficiency will not guarantee TRC the full traffic
potential. We have assumed that only 400,000 tonnes will, de facto, be on
offer by 1995.



PROJECTED FREIGHT CAPACITY UNDER VARIOUS SCENARIOS (MILLION TONNES)                           ANNEX 42
SCENARIOS & DESCRIPTION                        1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  200   2001
SCENARIO 1-FULLINV. OIP                        0.98   1.18  1.51   1.71   1.86  2.15  2.15  2.15   2.15  2.15  2.15  2.15
fu investment
boo availability    100% Of base case
Block talns        -I 00% of base case
locomotive utilization  100% of base case
SCENARIO2-PARTIALINV+ OIP                      0.96   1.15   1.18  1.21   1.19  1.31   1.18  1.19   1.19   1.19  1.19  1.19
partial investment
bco avaitability   - 90% Of base case
Block trains       - 75% of base case
locomotive utilization  - 95% of base case
SCENARIO 3-NO INV + OIP                        0.92  0.68   OA7  0.35   0.16  0.09   0.03  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
no Ivestrmnt
boo availability   - 100-50% Of base case
Block trains       -10% of base case
bcomotive utlization   100-50% of base case                                                                                  o
SCENARIO4-FULLINV+ NOOIP                       0.92  1.01   1.08   1.19   1.26      1.45    1.45   1.45    1.45    1.45   1.45  1.45
ful investment
boo availability   - 75% Of base case
Block trains       -50% of base case
bocomotive utilization  - 90% of base case
SCENARIO5 -PARTIAL INV+ NO OIP                 0.88  0.91  0.91   0.93  0.85  0.87  0.78  0.70  0.63  0.57  0.51   0.46
partial investment
bco availability   - 75% Of base case
Block trains       - 25% d base case
bocomove utilization  -100-50% of base case
SCENARIO 6-NO INV + NO OIP                     0.86  0.47  0.21   0.09  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
no investment
loco availability  - 100-40% Of base case
Block trains       -10% of base case
xcomotive utilization  -100.40% of base case
SCENARIO 7-PARTIAL INYV  PARTIAL OIP           0.97  0.83  0.85  0.85   0.83  0.78  0.78  0.78  0.78  0.78  0.78  0.78
partial investment
bco availabiliy    -100-70% Of base case
Block trains       -20% of base case
bocomotive utilization  - 100-70% of base case



- 121 -
TANZANIA
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                              Annex 4-3
Page 1 of 3
WITH PROJECT: PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT
(TSh 000)
19614 .      1            1i9       t14          19          19         199       s1"            so"
Rail Roeie
Teasl rtg6                       166868        1911066      8600660    666878     8616600      866600    869660    816600         8616
Transi At                        tss taiB "am               m lpl    tiSalm              ttaS II  _WMA    $a"#"      $"a_         smmo
Total Pie ipt,                   76 18        14666        t0401   191017W o1 1141W            Iffi   111S419    91410           21614109
Itaeaneee Ser ices               I746          I9600        816        874176     8741766      S7 6       SUM        8741a6       W87417
Total Rail Rteuf we              96476        1666577      16l8l6    224840   26978    1666697    gloom    1666697                  66697
Reveavee: OIlier Service.         1066088       861678       8e67       6 7         8e67       8s1um       sum        Sei7          8167
Totl iRevenue                    1067809      1741744      91166       1411    168s6"    9618            1866    wi1 6              16
cOoti ls  Cmt
"Din*.  at.6                                    78824        6 S1         "Om       ion"1110   1tA1W      U3111,    1t5W           1110
sagon.          6818is       86406         6415       819064     8196         109        81904      a1""         60o4
Caecltes    a      006        14318         47170      47170       MM         4n7         4n78       4170         477
bt*"e,l                     1601          16476        171180    18807       176          all Wm      1311      1l t 0176    107136
Other "Oteri,l/Serv ice.          11t          1147172      1146"      1116  110      6900     106        116t       1106          100
Labor Costs                      13666         10981        304066     1966        196"69      160        1606       1986666       1"906
Incentive/
_leatal Paymt                      461           60761        6m0761      071        66          00761      6071       606           607
otler                             766"1         766861       766661     76411      7661         76lt       766l       761           76"
Oaeclotioa: Esieting Ae.ta         1o118        17212         6010t       848W       4157       841,197    J78        8 1           814SU9
: Ma. AO"t                 0        86759       218         816w      761147      9566      10767i    11o09          10600t
oeeret; ne Coets: Ro;            691679        62619        66666 _    967478   1846464       106646    10771       10060         1017"
----------.- -  - --
0.eat,ag Coota  Nan-ailI         1076999        40l188       4i14       4i18       41481        414        484815     4141         41481,
Totel IOarotiag Coot.            79"9M         6919         U9128541   10079   10909160    11S649   121478   1129424    l1061
_____________________
Oasa tisg Incoe                  9687517       6716116     11620104  188468   1549            18010    1466160   14096            146_64
ac;ewtion.al  sate.:
PForei  Coats of Ret.ificetioa:
(i)Loco Na t. Backlio             16082         728911      O418ls      817700      #t948            0          0          0            0
(ii) Track "Dint. 6ack log             0       286024       11842l 0    18789     14706        1l66        716744     4461199       I1
(;) WOon "Dina. Sacklog                0        116486       49210      810s76     18106                        0          0            0
(;v) Coast.. abist. backlog            0         4796        20106       110        549             0           0          0 
Subtotal: Naint. sOckloo           1e98        11268i6      27801      9428814     17119       6l 7        7644       44996         148112
Training Ceaacity Building             0        108176   e 464          381214       40610           6     1186        Sun71         SIOO
T*chnical Assitance                    0        4768O        9961O    10476O        848111           0          0          0             0
other                              16a6          97977       20414 t       9i20     1612        182499      96         6186          11186
Local Project Coo"                 657         1061169      4120988     77680    4726017       846        117060     18412          4708
Total: Emeoptienel Expenes        887848       267281       6494160   6O6149      7560991      48404      81278      194819         67891
Proft ibefore Pe". Chereo           01O75      8666         88I61O    4464986   T7I6686       10 9    1107425   1274909           14160
Interst Payebl e:
Long-term Debt: bleat              2875         1915         18609    12101a        96148        64460                 46106        419
:Na                      0            0        1466       78681     14446       1o068o    1462124    1741012        266686
Shorl-tar 0.1bt
Sutotal                           66278         191592       8060       86484     18467       21190M    28837487    976721        1909600
mInteast Inca..
Nat Interest Payable              2_873         1919          06U07     6849    1861           2139970    168467    276S77         19068
Am,lmasatien of Foreign
Recktago Lease.                   1094077      104077       104077    104077    102407         108407     100407     10940         10a407
Nt" k                             19           4428196      19987      2606    81068           70164      624        91 16        1066148
Dividondo                               0            0      1197846    1880        8018        41269    618          68727         7748968
i4tsi" 4lbralow Ia027                          462381        796261    1010i 6      0i491    _     9      9061476    1190606       966111



- 122 -
Annex 4-3
TANZANIA                                                  Page 2 of 3
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
WITH PROJECT: PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
(TSh 000)
Not p;i   e
14io'arc       olaw            ama=       lo m          Mm a       Slm.    am""             OWw            1997    sam           21 11
14..eree8141                        irni@WS                   8036    1331m          30943        1     4     mill       sses          i33
NM LOOM                           0                    0 O 310            511    O     38106 S    8186 0M    4670        47800         4306
vlroies                                           mm,         821111"     4149"O 4111011111i    IM              tm weu            w lmon tw  111407 M"
Tofta  Fiead Arnte   8816441      864431        838306        983983    1411101     1345153      1718618    1io 3    156983           1160
0.efread F.r.;p,
Egac g Itea    Los"  1024079      9339          319114        7133        6140.      am"          4033         8i          I 1033183   1037
I"^"e_tomo            41185        611           41A8          411U        412        4118         4118        *  m       4113          4118I
Not Narbiet Ca,.
LIrwatari             1760791     141q0         81*0780       4071       4133        41810s11 006t 8 9064    34546W                    i4i
Dalb-z                8368306     37236W        161*617       318391 89    83156283 163393 8uW 81116mI M"3                    71 3     89
Crod,t,re             81613       21 1148111111   33783        1309       2787       1998         1"am        86376  10 6978L          199M
98M        87933         810438        4360396    49331       5      11116l3          43196       4478093       4373
Cur. Portia, LTD      se39C1l      smi   _S3331   U m i                      I        47           m 111    13183        176           loam0
bsen  blbnI.a"oaalm    14896         3370       3390W   U      49031    1*333    18308           16139    196394    8496              m11i?
1ek Ove.rdr,ft        1116686      1183308      11 8          1*138       11138      11863        ias""       118333     118           1183333
Pvaiair,               461874      431874        41874         4I374       461174     432874       43154       431574     432874        441574
total Not Amt,   11*800          144836        198680        37431112   88311987   480633        4378 932        1900   63M4          831137
R inoaed f':
. 6qmw. Capital:
Casital Account       780018    141866         1*66416       41519815   1810341    161064"       131061    18106415   2103415         2810642
Retaieed  ora a.i    403 -        8029s67       -891789        3071    14837         83339           6736    41479   1035111           10196
-________________
Ensity Ca3ital        114891      70416M       1e167684      138w        198040    21586911    169n17    188344    W744              s81833
Leog-tore Det
Pro-Projet Debt    1614S6         933S          877941*       i986        71149    68061          8636        83844    49839           43111
Project bet                              0       140          680M3      1100312M   171*1803 10334367           41m76?   28304818     83471
Gros  LTD            1414886     e9368         10001891      142*6467   19        1019 saa    1631m6   83173o    17963                2780
Cwr. Porti LTD        890616       33361         3168161   *81                        47   0        336W      641W4      sm            116660
._________._____
Met Lang-tars Debt  181070         67M412       917660       1840        184078   83M0      4    29U12   373866    27513886           16483076
LTD  ejotaanct              0    -1567611      -155761         6111711   -1157611   -116e61      -18711  -113576111   -1887611        .11731
Total Libb i ite    114806    1443259          198060        27469112    81197   4806866         40790      811900    47094           16190837
--.---------------
c.. tag ElirWa d                 12301661      15642915    S1O6I6    13673    87433311           44110      499481    83086           88 90
RSAirn On COViftl EIla.Y0(l)            1i            87           16          i6         10           as          24         14            go
Debt/Ca,ital E lod  (5)                 ad           so            61          82         85                       86                       4



1991         1962         1998       1994       199-        1996        1997       1998         1999
Ca   Omratte   r   Operatl                                                                                     -        ---
RaIl *ewe                         08047      1688677t    2055109  226440   26556078                26556976   25666978 26556979    25556976
;Oarable Cease:
material                         806441       4027082      486500    4863779   65 98066       559668      3896636    63968  589    685m
Labor                             280111       895240       36660       876974     878974      $87974     879974     878974        876974
882s66a      4422272      472        528274    5777010      5777610    677?610    6777610       6777610
Contrlibutlo margin: Rail        5324        124185oo      15608636   17811767   197780e    107798      1917936   19779960       19779
: Oer          56118134     8665         86967      8967 8      69857      86 7 8      60657       86965?      868e"7
Fild Cte                         "58"?        8649545       8681469    88002      8626668     SUMS    862968 U829688              862
Eoptieal Ce                       7s40        2967262      844100   6091496   7560991         4840408    8128t7     1934819        78922 
ofre" Catle                      2461869      6067m51       86664    5 129    6778s2    11499185   18210766   14406224           15666621
Mat Inv. io Working Cap.        -2880147       002040    -1488062   -809724    -16875          297111     200097     188675        147841
Free Operating Caeht I.,.        -8667o9       6660799     2480602    502140      660976    117116246   1841060   14644099      15812982
Capital Expndltereg                    0       642429       6970   6279741    26996           20T87      18070       807500       277 5 2
1st C&lOW                        -8606799     0027869    -861"        -12688      570797      9766486   121089   18t789          15"5487           ..   ?
Fl_lw x w
Equity Fimaaleg                        0            0      2910000    2910000           0           0          0          0            0        J             ca.-
tn 0 
Non Debt                               0      1222480      6060206    578578    5174028       8471784    2286696    1a86226       476868       $  tM  .- g
bIrld_dPaid                            0            0       1190748    1588906    8062188     4288a89    6184419    67272         748988       >
7nterest Paid                     228875       191562        8057       6"449    1540671      2129970      84ST    2737217       2909800      z         0
Deot    ta                        82561       e6m2s           25681    625681      626681      478        6SS60386    941844     1228768
on   0
Nat Eabernal Finacing           -1049006       2062568     5660724    5401989    -254812   -888118   -7088018  -9116047   -11401575                 E t
______                                                                                                                                            UZ 
Cah Accreti"                     1417M9      4282826      -219C6  -41488S   -S41866    -6404874   -50847   -4016S52             -41886
Nat Finnsaclng                    888789    -6027389       8435168    126688   -5670797    -9769496  -12103859  -1873889       -155587
cn
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0o 



TANZAN IA
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
WH PROJECT: RAILWAYS VARIAl OETIN  COSTS
(TSh mi II ton)
1991    1992    1993    1s04    1996    1996    199?    1998    1999    2000
Vara;ble Imported Matorial         1378.20 12.50 1417.80  1491.70 1624.70 1624.70  1624.70 1624.70 1624.70 1824.70
Adjested Ecoseic Costs:            1963.66 1991.26 2027.45 218.13 2823.32 2323.82 2323.82 2823.82 2828.32  2328.32
Variable FmI                       1867.10 1626.40 1625.40 162.40  1625.40 1626.40  1625.40 1625.40 1625.40 1626.40
Adjusted Ecoomie Costa            I04.6  2824.82 24.82 2824.82 2824.82 2824.82 P824.82 2324.82 2324.82 2824.82
Variable huontic Costs
atewlrl                            110.10  110.70  111.40  112.00  112.00   98.00   10.90   08."0   98.90   90.90
Lobor                              176.50  8.00  685.00  385.00  8.00  386.00  858.00  868.00  M3.00  8U5.00
Issetives                           41.40   62.00   62.90   62.60   62.60   62.60   62.60   62.60   62.60   62.60
Subtol                             826.00  54.60  547.20  647.60  547.60  584.70  584.70  54.70  584.70  584.70
Total Imcro.aatl keo_sic Costs    4246.68 4862.10 4096.96  5006.25  619.44 5162.84  5162.84 5162.84  5162.84 6162.84
Unit Coet (TSh)g
Total Iacramotl co.. Co.t M         8."      8.69    8.47    8."      8."      8.90    8.66    8.08    8."       8.N6
Total Incr_mat9l Eoen. Coetat/N1     4.50    4.48    4.17    4.26    4.42    4.41    4.41    4.41    4.41    4.41
(.209 adjuoott for Interior eavico)
Roed Traowt Cot  (Econ)PlTM         12.02   12.02   12.02   11.40   11.40   11.40   11.40   11.40   11.40   11.40
Differential: Rail/Read Costa (T78)    7.42    7.56    7.65    7.14    6.97    6.09    6.0       0.900    6.00    6.0



Annex 5-2
- 125 -
TANZANIA
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Truk Physical and Operting Characteriefts:
ExIsting Road               With Rood
CondWons                    Improvemomto
Vehiclo Payload                                     15.00 tonneo
Trailer Payload                                     15.00 tonnes
Total Payload                                       30.00 tonnes
Truck/Trailer Load Factor                           70.00 %
Vehicle Km/year                                  42000.00                     50400.00
Fuel ConsumptUonVKm                                  0.90 lItro
Tyre SetalTruck-Traller Combinaton                  10.00
Tyre Llfe                                        26000.00 km                  3e(00.00 km
Tiroe Setoyear                                      15.00                        14.00
Road Transport: Capital and Operating Costa
Truck: Chassis and Cab (TSh 000)                  7954.00 (excluding duty and sales tax
Truck B    (rSh 000)                              1070.00 (exol. sales tax; Wool manufacturo using Imported component
Traler Chassis (TSh 000)                          3246.00 (off I.e excl. duty and sales txes)
Trailer Body (TSh 000)                             60000 (tocal manut. using Impoded oomponents; cxl. sales tax)
Fuel: Finanio price (TSh)                           64.00 per litre
: Net of taxes (TSh)                              64.00
Oil & Lubricants (TSh)                              10.00 %of cost of fuel
CwCosts {TSh 000)                                  137.00 per annum
Sundry Operating Costs (TSh)                         2.00 /km
Maintenance (TSh)                                   18.00 /km                    15.00
Admin & other overheads (TSh)                        8.00 /km
PriceMre Set (TSh)                               81000.0C (excl. sales tax
Tire Set/year (TSh)                               915000 (exel. sales tax)     854000
Economic Cost of Road Transport (TShfveh. km)
Exist  Rod                  With Road
Conditions                  lmprovem.mts
Capital Cost                                       101.32                       101.32
Fuel                                                62.37                        82.37
Oil/lube                                             8.24                         8.24
Crew cost                                            3.26                         .74
TIres                                               25.27                        19,66
Maintesn"e                                          21.67                        15.00
Sundry & Overheads                                  10.00                        10.00
Tota Costs/veh. km                                 252.33                       239.32
Total CostasTonne.km (TSh)                          12.02                        11.40



PROJECT ECUINC RETURNS
lavetmeont                                   TraffiC                             Cost of Road Transpot:
(TSh million)                             (million NTKU)                         Additional Traffic         Net Bene fit
With      Without                  with Project      Without Projet   Difference          (TSh mlillon)              (TSh million)
Project  Project Different.
1991              as24      428     1s2               1109               752               a?               26m1                       1019
1012             9168    2006    7m                   1175               762               423              320?                      -4543
198             1070      2220      66               122                752               470              3s6s                      -4097
1904             11299    2826      014               1310               752               564              4025                      -4940
lo6               8218     1682     6526              1410               762               O6C              4569                      -1987
1996              5186     1067     4071              1410               762               65s              4697                        513
1997              8062      64      2447              1410               752               65               4597                       2146
1998              1027      211      810              1410               752               056              4607                       8781
1999                 0        0        0              1410               762              e6g               4597                       4697
2000                                                  1410               752               a65              4597                       4797
2001                                                  1410               752              6on               4597                       4697
2002                                                  1410               72                86               4597                       4597
2008                                                  1410               762               66               4597                       4597
2004                                                  1410               762               56s              4507                       469?
2005                                                  1410               752               a65              4597                       4597
2006                                                  1410               752               669              4697                       4607
2007                                                  1410               752               659              4597                       4697
2008                                                  1410               752               656              4597                       4597
200                                                  1410               752               S68              4507                       457
2010                                                  1410               752               65S              4597                       4697
2011                                                  1410               752               a8g              4697                       4597
2012                                                  1410               762              a6s               4597                       4597
2018                                                  1410               752               6C8              4597                       4697
2014                                                  1410               752               668              4597                       4597
2015                                                  1410               752               65s              4597                       4597
2016                                                  1410               752               a"               4697                       4S97
2017                                                  1410               752               668              4597                       4697
2018                                                  1410               762               656              4697                       4697
2019                                                  1410               ?62               650              4S97                       4597
2020                                                  1410               762               660              4697                       4597
Economtc Rat, of Reurn:         1is 
Not Present Value (1o0):      10692 mlilleon
IX
U'



TANZANIA
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Road Transport: Etimatd Operating C.,t of Passeger Transport
Seating Capacity                                           65
Sue-Ku/year                                            130000 (705 effective availability   6 500 km/day)
S"t occupnc  ()                                            O0
Passenger-ku                                          7605000
Economic Cost of Bue (TSh 000)                          22179 (net of duties and sales toese; shadow-priced)
Annual Equivalent Cost (TSh 000) a/                     9NO?
Capital Costs/Paseagenr-ii  (TS%)                        1.25
F"l Costs (ocon)/SBu-ku (TSh)                           22.40 (.36 litro/km*TSh 84/litre)
01I Costs (econ)/BSus-&  (TSh)                           0.43 (1.7 Iitree/1000 km o TSh 260/litre)
Crew CostasjSe-ku (TSh)                                  2.22
Tyroe/yeer (TSh)                                      3740000 (sot of 7 tyres/bue * 1 spars, 25000 km Iife/tyro, TSh 100000/tyro)
Tyrsa/S"u-ka (TSb)                                      28.77
waI te"ace/goo-ke  (TSh)                                 6.00
Othr Coat/yeor (ThU 000)                                 1250 (Insurance and other non-transfer expensp)
Sboltal: Variable Opeating Cost.jflu-lu (Ze)            71.43
Variable Operating cPResePossnager-ir  (2c)              1.22
Totals Ltin-  Avoidable Costs                            2.47
a/ bsed on presst value of chal of replacement cot  every five (5) yre a.to lnfinty;
dilsost rau  1a6; _



TANZAN I A
RAIL1AYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Passengr Sorvice. Cost Structure
Casehing Stock mosecamsnt P e,                  l201
Coach Unit.                                 14           18                    is 18      1is         n          # 
veg,. oiss mliil.                  1                     0     .6          5        6.5         7.6       10.6   10                  4
Present ain. Sof b      1 plsseta$(U55 sullen   5.30         4.54       2.61       1.50        1.25       1.60       a.40         0.60
Total Prevent Vale (U  a) a       15.55
_Iae  Eulv. Cest Of POpl_OC      t!Vsa ( *N) *               5.37
Lecootive Capital Coot:
Anmel Eiqpvaleat Cost ef 4 MsIllm  L.emtiv.s (UN a):                    0.90
Presget Voivo of fetwr SIplcemt* o 4  mi1> low LeceAsivo (N a)                                 1.55
A_ l E4ibvalet  Cst Of RepInement f 4 lbliilin Los  (UN a)                                     0.20
Total A_n1lie  Capitatl Cast(f Service Petilues OM a)O                  8.41
Tota Ast lend Capital cast (1Eesnalc) (m  a):                           4.5
PasesegR'al.w .(1111..)s          4.41
Atom"g IRAdsrhip VlSIOmee (bo)t                   0
tal P          _soasa     (4IIIos)              1720
Capital   sts_--ansr-   (EseMic) ():                         0.6
_1ngua  1e"Mag Cilia of Eupenad SIlce Preiole.s
Fleomseia               fEcosos
Matrial (-11st mliii)                m.
Past (TO milli")                                             1855
Ler (TM *ilios)                     7"4                       724
Total                              tin                       nu
r"s c                  (h)         1.87                      1.75
/ all present vale at t1;
b/ litf of d.oaatives a 30 lears
a/ rideal lltf. etltin  leotle  as           teo   _            ice * 15 yers;
lIfe of oaches a 40 p"er;
s life poile o cf      e    _h ed I T IKC records; pwoject coahese *Mowd to bo precfed lain      aN 100;



- 129 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
RJVLWAYS R8WNSRTI   P SOJUC?
SUPVISION PLAN
1.          IDA Supervision Inputs  Bank staff Input into the
supervision of the project will take the following formt
(a) Portfolio management operations: the review of procurement
documents, progress reports and financial statements at
headquarters and correspondence and internal reporting
related to such activities are estimated to require six
staff-weeks in each of the first three project years and
four staff weeks thereafter.
(b)   Field supervision: the supervision of the project in the
field will comprise five broad aspects:
(i)      Operating Performances the detailed review of
maintenance and traffic operations;
(i)      Financial Performance: the detailed review with
TRC of financial performance and prospects
taking operating performance and traffic pros-
pects into account;
(iII)      Regulatory Climates review with Government, the
Board of TRC and TRC management of progress in
implementing the provisions of the Memorandum of
Understanding;
(iv)      Pro1ect Implementations review of progress in
the implementation of subprojects against
physical and cost targets;
(v)      Donor Coordinations IDA supervision would be on
a cooperative basis with the TRC Donor Group and
would entail meetings with donors individually
and as a group on every field visit to discuss
the performance of the project.
It is planned to undertake field supervision of the project on a
quarterly cycle for the first three project years and on a semiannual
cycle thereafter. The activity plan for the first two project years is
indicated in the table below.



- 130 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
2.          Borrower's and Beneficiary's Contributions to Supervisions
(a)   TRC will provide quarterly reports in the format agreed at
appraisal and confirmed at negotiations;
(b)   TRC will provide annual financial statements in the form and
tine schedule agreed at negotiations;
(c)   on each supervision visit in the third quarter of TRC's
fiscal year. Government and TRC will prepare and discuss
with the IDA mission the operating and financial targets
proposed to be set for TRC for its ensuing fiscal year and
the investment program proposed to be implemented.
Government is expected to be represented by officials of
MCT;
(d)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival will be chaired by the
Principal Secretary (PS) or a senior official of MCT. Wrap-
up meetings will be chaired by the PS of HCT and attended by
senior officials of the Ministry of Finance and TRC's senior
management.
3.          At the end of each mission, an Aide Memoire will be prepared
documenting TRC's compliance with the performance objectives agreed
under the project and during the preceeding supervision mission, the
measures to be taken to remedy any shortfall in performance and the
performance objectives for the ensuing quarter or half-year.
4.          In the th'rd quarter of the fiscal year 1993, TRC will
prepare, for review by the Government and IDA, a detailed analysis of
progress in implementing all aspects of the project (the mid-term
review).



- 131 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
Bank Field Suervision Plan
Approximate Date         Activity                  Expected        Staff Input
(month/year)                              Skill Requirement   (staff-weeks)
8/91                Review Reporting              Railways               5
Requirements/Formats.         Engineering/Opera-
Review progress on            tions Specialist
conditions of                 Financial Analyst
effectiveness. Review of
Procurement Activities.
Review of operating
performance
11/91               Review of operations &        Railways Engineer-   7
financial performance.        ing/Operations
Review of performance         Specialist
objectives for PY92.          Financial Analyst
Review of investment          Procurement/Sup-
program.                      plies Specialist
Procurement/Materials
Management Review
3/92                Review of FY91 operating    Railways Engineer-   5
and financial                 ing/Operations
performance.                  Specialist
Review of project-related   Financial Analyst
procurement activities
and progress.
6/92                Review of operating and       Railways Engineer-   5
financial performance and   ing/Operations
progress in project           Specialist
implementation.               Financial Analyst
Years 93, 94        Same pattern as 91/92         Railways Engineer-   20 sw
plus detailed mid-term        ing/Operations        p.a.
review in 11/93.              Specialist
Financial Analyst
Year 95, 96, 97    Supervision Missions in:    Railways Engineer-   12 sw
98, 99               (a) April/May of each         ing/Operations        p.a.
year to review plans    Specialist
for ensuing year and    Financial Analyst
progress in project
implementation
(b' September/October to
review full perform-
ance in past year and
project progress
PCR mission in late 1999.



TANZANIA
RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
In lmetaoPlan
1991        1992        1993        1994         1995
JJASCIEJFvtkJu C'CJF PUJJASCCJF FPLJJASCOWJFU*LJJSCWCJFUM
Rehabiation of loootives
-Technical Specfcations..
-Tendering & Contacting                               xxxxxxxxxxxx
-delvery of Equipment                                         m         am
4Impokntion & Comnussioning                                         oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
Track Rehabilitafion
-Technical Specifications                        ----
-Tendering & Contracting                             xxxxxx
-delivery of Equipnent                                        uiinmnmi-a3umwmui
-Implementation & Commissioning                                     ooooooooooooooooooo0oooooooooooooooooooooo
Rehabilitation of Wagons
-Technical Specfications                         ....
-Tendering & Contracting                             xxxxxx
-defivery of EquWpment                                        umwmSminam
-Implementation & Commissioning                                     oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
Refurbishment of Coaches
-Technical Specifications                        ....
-Tendering & Contracting                             xxxxxx
-delivery of Eqljlpment
-Impiementation & Comnnissioning                                    oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
Bridge Strengthening
-Technical Specicatons                           ................
-Tendering & Contacting                              xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
-deliery of Equient
-Implementation & Commissioning                                     oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo0
Disel Workshop
-Technical Specfications                         ........
-Tendering & Contacding                              xxxxxxxxxxxx
-delivey of Equipment                                        =o--"=-=
-Impementaton & Commissioning                                     oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo



DSM Workshop
-Technical Specifications
-Tenderng & Contcing                                     xxxxxxxxxxxx
-devery of Equipment                                              ==mww  =Maca-
-I   8t tlon&Commissioning_.      .__ ooooo--
CRDepots                                                                     ---
-Technical Specfcatons
-Tendering & Contacting                                  xxxxxxxxxxxx
deiey of Equipment                                                we""""
I_pbnwnWm & Cosmtsioning                                               o000000
FI9ha-Ubrm -Lnk & North
Cowwwncation system
-Tecnical Specfctis .o..
-Tendering & Contracting                                 xxxxxx
-devery of Equipment
- plementation & Comnissioning                                          000 oo ----
Stone Ouarres
-Technical Specications
-Tendering & Contracting                                 xxxxxx
-delivery of Equipment
_         l  & Comnunisonlng                                            000000000000
Track MaIntnanc Equipment
-Tedial Speoiatni                                    ----
-Tendering & Contactng                                   xxxxxx
-delivey of EquWpment                                             maminaamminm;
-lr     tatmon & CmmIsson                                               000000000000
Trfleys
-Technical Specficatons                              .
-Tendeng & Contacting                                    xxxxxx
-devey of Equipment                                                  *------
-mplnentation & qonmssvnn                                               00000000
Pkant Minte  Depot
-Technical Speicatons ion
-Tender  & Contracti                                     xxxxxx
-d Very of Equipmnent                                             mmaonm
-Implementation & ComIssIonbn                                           ooooooooo0oo
Q00
ri
w



New Coaches
-Technical Spedfications
-Tenderng & Contracting                                xxxxxx
-delivery of Equipment
-Implementation & Commissioning                                              00000000
Acddent Relief Equipment
-Technical Speiications                           ----
-Tendering & Contracting                               xxxxxx
-delivery of EqLdipment
-Implementation & Commissioning                                              00000000
Road and Rail Vehides
-Technical Specifications                         ....
-Tendering & Contracting                               xxxxxx
-delivery of Equipment
-Impl ementation & Commissioning                                  0000
Office Equipment
-Technical Specifications                         ----
-Tendering & Contracting                              xxxxxx
-delivery of Equipment
-Implementation & Commissioning  _ooooo
Technical Assisngnce
-Technical Specifications                         ----
-Tendering & Contracting                              xxxxxx
-delivery of Equipment
-Implementation & Commissioning                                      oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
Trainieg
-Technical Specifications                         ----
-Tendering & Contracting                              xxxxxx
-deliveS y oa Equcpmentions
-Imtplementation & Comnmissioning                                    0ooo00000000oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
Studies
-Technical Specfflcations                         ..
-Tendering & Contracfing                              xxxxxx
-tudy and Recomrnendations                                   --"--=--"==-=
-Implementation & Commissioning                                      000000
fI! 
et J



()Bukb~a                    MusomN
C    +'   11   ,,.Xt   91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR  O
TANZANIA
\wanza                                                                                                                                                                      Sa*s
kL,.r&9
Nvaianazi                                                                                     Mh                                                                    /NMBI        _
|  g/7Arua             rs                                                              -MO/AMSIQLA
1967,73   0      Shinyanga                                                              \                                             _                  __
\_/    oN'i                              o M.'k,"u n0                                                                         TANZANIA
TANZANIA RAILWAYS
Kt_                                                                       SrKaliua  laboa  9ngida                                               \                              CORPORATION
*                    0 .  fi1                                                                            fa      O  langa<3        ef 0    'emb          Track  Details
0
4            ~~~~190S-14                    Mnai9 
A- 46                                                                                                             BO7 azia  0LB YD.
A.                                                                           Zab ,star t
g   \                                      tilwS6  -5         9QS-Ja                                     /%  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Zanzibar  ltrd60L "fD)
V   Mvnda                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       ~~~Dodorna 4s<  tsffi    0                                             ^ 6.1216 VO(QC>tS
M~~~~~~~~~nda                                                               7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9S7-75-
1 m 3 1 9  r2  ~     1 9  5 ' - '                                                     5 0   [M M )
,or                      I~~~~~.  DAR ES SLAARM
0 Rungwa                                              04o           g         R                                                    4t8.0D.
Morogoro                                                            '
\  fdhkumI  f            /                                           SlEWTS    Ut STftt
ZAI R [.                                                                                         tringa           Mtdatu
~~, ltroo -                              ~~~Mafia_____
s   Sumbahwan,ga                                                                       dIsland                                                                            TAhMkM PAtw ,1
_f.k&~                                       5on g,                              RLIFRS
0Mb'    RFCIONC&MIaIS
= _   2  Makambak.                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAt
-_          INTIRSATKONAI BOLNDARIES
0
Ilindi
Mtwara
L~~~.rris    f                             \              }       9u~~~~~~~~~~~Sngea                                                             } flvr
oor  trixStres                                                                  \               ;P
;t orro  -  o   0~  s1r  - , 
>                                                                                                                                                                               .   -           6          n              T
_   tK   .............................  r  ffi.  ......... t____ vA ..awt7. svfit0f  . Kr=M.rrito o;r. lfn *En w M
= _  * _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U.T _R%



