CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 303 BT
Joint Financing
Agreement
(Second Road Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 27, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 303 BT
Joint Financing
Agreement
(Second Road Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 27, 1972


﻿Waxint *iuanting Agreruttn
AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 1972, between ReUUn-
LIC OF BOTSWANA (hereinafter called Botswana), the KING-
DOM OF SWEDEN (hereinafter called Sweden), and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) By a development credit agreement with
Botswana of even date herewith, Sweden has agreed to
make available to Botswana a credit in an aggregate pr in-
cipal amount of twenty million five hundred thousand Swe-
dish kronor (SKr 20,500,000) equivalent to about four niil-
lion dollars ($4,000,000) for the purpose of assisting in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(B) By an agreement with Botswana of even date here-
with, the Association has agreed to make available to Bots-
wana a credit in an aggregate principal amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) for
the same purpose; and
(C) The parties hereto have agreed on the allocation,
withdrawal and use of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit
and the IDA Credit and the execution of the Project to be
financed thereby, as well as on other matters, as hereinafter
provided;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Agreement shall have
the following meanings:


﻿4
(a) The term "Swedish Credit Agreement" means the
agreement between Sweden and Botswana referred to in
Recital (A) to this Agreement, as from time to time
amended.
(b) The term "IDA Credit Agreement" means the credit
agreement between Botswana and the Association referred
to in Recital (B) to this Agreement, as from time to time
amended.
(c) The term "Swedish Credit" means the credit pro-
vided for in the Swedish Credit Agreement.
(d) The term "IDA Credit" means the credit provided
for in the IDA Credit Agreement.  *
(e) The terms "Swedish Credit Account" and "IDA
Credit Account" mean the respective accounts established
under the Swedish Credit Agreement and the IDA Credit
Agreement.
(f) The term "Project" means the Project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(g) The term "Gazetted Roads" means such public roads
of Botswana as published in its Gazette from time to time.
ARTICLE II
Allocation and Withdrawals of Proceeds of
the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit
SECTIoN 2.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Swedish Credit Agreement and
the IDA Credit Agreement and subject to the provisions of
Section 2.02 of the IDA Credit Agreement, the amounts of
the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit may be withdrawn
from the Swedish Credit Account and the IDA Credit Ac-
count, respectively, in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of The
Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from


﻿time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or
by further agreement between Botswana, Swedeii and the
Association.
SECTION 2.02. Withdrawals from the Swedish Credit Ac-
count and the IDA Credit Account shall be apportioned by
the Association between the Swedish Credit and the IDA
Credit, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances and
taking into account the limitations provided for in Article 1,
Section 2, of the Swedish Credit Agreement, in the ratio
of 2 to 1, or such other ratio as shall be agreed between
Sweden and the Association.
SECTION 2.03. (a) Botswana may withdraw any amount
of the Swedish Credit or the IDA Credit by delivering to
the Association a written application in such form and con-
taining such statements and agreements as the Association
shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, with
the necessary documentation, as hereinafter provided shall,
except as Botswana and the Association shall otherwise
agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for
the Project.
(b) Botswana shall furnish to the Association such docu-
ments and other evidence in support of the application as
the Association shall reasonably request, whether before or
after the Association has approved any withdrawal re-
quested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents
and other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance
to satisfy the Association that Botswana is entitled to with-
draw from the Swedish Credit Account or the IDA Credit
Account the amount applied for and that such amount is to
be used only for the purposes specified in this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. (a) When the association has approved ai
application by Botswana for withdrawal, the Association
shall:


﻿G
(i) pay the amount, if any, which Botswana is entitled
to withdraw from the IDA Credit Account to or on
the order of Botswana in accordance with the pro-
visions of the IDA Credit Agreement;
(ii) promptly notify the Sveriges Riksbank, acting as
agent for Sweden, in the manner and to the extent
set forth in this Agreement, that it has received an
application for withdrawal from the Swedish Credit
Account and the IDA Credit Account in the aggre-
gate amount specified in such notice, that it has
approved payment of the portion, if any, to be with-
drawn from the IDA Credit Account in the amount
set forth in such notice and that the portion, if any,
to be withdrawn from the Swedish Credit Account in
the amount set forth in such notice is eligible for
payment by the Sveriges Riksbank to the payee indi-
cated therein.
(b) Upon receipt of such notice of the Association, the
Sveriges Riksbank shall, subject to the rights of suspension
and cancellation of the Swedish Credit set forth in the Swe-
dish Credit Agreement, pay the amount so to be withdrawn
from the Swedish Credit Account in the currency and to
the payee stated in the notice and immediately advise Bots-
wana of each such payment.
SECTION 2.05. If at any time the amount of the Swedish
Credit or of the IDA Credit should be fully withdrawn or
cancelled, applications by Botswana for further withdrawals
shall be deemed to be requests for withdrawal of the full
amount applied for from the IDA Credit Account or the
Swedish Credit Account only and the provisions of this
Article II shall continue to apply nithtis nw1?tandis until the
full amouint credited or to be credited to such Accoit shall
h1aVe' been withdrawn or cancelled.
SECioN 2.06. Upon Botswana's request and upon such
forms as shall be agreed between Botswana and the Asso-
ciation, the Association may enter into special commitments


﻿7
to pay amounts to Botswana or others in respect of the cost
of goods or services required for the Project. Any such
special commitment by the Association shall, once it has
been notified to Sweden and the Sveriges Riksbank consti-
tute an obligation on the part of Sweden to pay, notwith-
standing any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the
Swedish Credit and in conformity with the foregoing See-
tions 2.04 and 2.05, such portion of the total amount to be
disbursed, in fulfillment of such special commitment, as
agreed pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.07. If for purposes of this Agreement any pro-
ceeds of the Swedish Credit are to be withdrawn in a cur-
rency other than Swedish kronor, the Sveriges Riksbank
shall remit the requested foreign currency amount and shall
debit the Swedish Credit Account with the Swedish kronor
equivalent of such amount calculated on the basis of the
current market selling rate or, if no such rate applies, the
par values established by the International Monetary Fund,
or, if no such values have been established, such rate as
shall be reasonably determined by the Sveriges Riksbank.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Use of
kroceeds of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit
SECTION 3.01. Botswana shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
technical, engineering, administrative and financial prac-
tices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, staff, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
SECTION 3.02. (a) In order to assist Botswana in carry-
ing out the supervision of the construction of Part A of the
Project, Botswana shall employ engineering consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿(b) In order to carry out Part B of the Project, Bots-
wana shall by December 31, 1972, employ three road engi-
neers for a period of four years upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as Sweden, Botswana and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, Botswana shall employ con-
tractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Association to carry out construc-
tion work included in the Project.
SECTION 3.04. (a) Except as Sweden and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the goods and services (other than
consultants' services) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the
IDA Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, as revised
in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Except as Sweden and the Association shall other-
wise agree, Botswana shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the
IDA Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
SECTION 3.05. (a) Botswana shall furiish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, contract documents and construction schedules for the
Project, and any material modification thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) Botswana: (i) shall maintain records adequate it
record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall
enable accredited representatives of Sweden and the Asso-


﻿9
ciation to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
Sweden and the Association all such information as Sweden
and the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Swedish
Credit and the IDA Credit and the goods and services
finaiced out of such proceeds.
SECTION 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the general design standards to be used for the road
included in Part A of the Project shall be as set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants of Botswana
SECTION 4.01. Botswana shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of Botswana responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.02. (a) Botswana shall continue to cause its
Gazetted Roads to be adequately maintained in accordance
with sound economic and engineering practices, taking
account of the financial constraints of the country.
(b) Botswana shall take all reasonable measures to
ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using
its roads do not exceed limits appropriate to the design
standards of the roads; and
(c) Botswana shall continue to collect, record and ana-
lyze, in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and
procedures, such technical, economic and financial iniforma-
tion, including traffic data, as shall be reasonably required
for proper planning of road maintenance, improvements
and extensions.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
SECTION 5.01. Botswana, Sweden and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit will be accomplished.
To that end, Botswana, Sweden and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of any party exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the per-
formance of their respective obligations under the Swedish
Credit Agreement, the IDA Credit Agreement and this
Agreement as well as the administration, operations and
financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or other agencies of Botswana responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Swedish Credit and the IDA
Credit.
SECTION 5.02. The parties hereto shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threat-
ens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit, the maintenance of
the service thereof or the performance by any party of its
obligations under the Swedish Credit Agreement, the IDA
Credit Agreement and this Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. Botswana and the Association shall ex-
change views on the results of a study, to be completed by
Botswana by December 31, 1972, on the timing of improve-
ments of other sections of the North-South Road.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
SECTION 6.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement shall be
in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have
been duly given or made when it shall have been delivered


﻿11
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or
made at such party's address specified below or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request:
For Botswana:
Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning
Private Bag No. 8
Gaborone, Botswana
Cable address:
Finance
Gaborone
For Sweden:
(a) insofar as Sveriges Riksbank acts as agent for Swe-
den pursuant to Article II of this Agreement:
Sveriges Riksbank
Box 2119
Stockholm 2
Sweden
Cable address:
Riksbanken
Stockholm
(b) for all other purposes:
Swedish International Development Authority
10525 Stockholm 1
Sweden
Cable address:
Sida
Stockholm


﻿For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington
SECTION 6.02. Botswana shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons
who will sign the applications provided for under Article
II of this Agreement or who will, on behalf of the Associa-
tion, take any other action or execute any other documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by Botswana
under this Agreement, and the authenticated specimen sig-
nature of each such person.
SECTION 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in sov-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original. All
such counterparts shall collectively be but one instrument.
SECTION 6.04. (a) Except as shall be otherwise agreed
by the parties hereto, this Agreement shall become effective
on the earliest date upon which the Swedish Credit Agree-
ment and the IDA Credit Agreement shall both be in effect.
(b) If the IDA Credit Agreement terminates for failure
to become effective in accordance with its terms, this Agree-
ment shall forthwith terminate and the Association shall
pi.omptly notify the other parties of such termination.
SECTION 6.05. This Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereto thereunder shall terminate on the date upon
which the IDA Credit Agreement shall have terminated.
SEc'IoN 6.06. Upon termination of the Swedish Credit
Agreement or the IDA Credit Agreement only, Sweden or
the Association, as the case may be, shall promptly notify


﻿13
the other parties hereto and, upon such notification, this
Agreement shall continue to remain in force and effect only
for the purpose of implementation of the Swedish Credit
Agreement or the IDA Credit Agreement and of orderly
settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties hero-
under, subject to such modifications of this Agreement as
shall be agreed among the parties thereto or as shall be rea-
sonably requested by Sweden or the Association for such
purposes.
SECTION 6.07. Unless Sweden otherwise notifies Bots-
wana and the Association, the Association shall represent
Sweden in all matters relating to the implementation of,
including amendments to, this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective iames, and
to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By   /s/ ('HIFF LINCHWE 11
Authorized Representative
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By   is nEarUx BESCIIE
Authorizved Repre,sectatiro
INTERNATTONAL PEVELOP.11EXT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. ALDEWERELD
Vice President
0


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
A. The reconstruction and paving of about 80 km of the
North-South Road from Pioneer Gate through Lobatse to
Gaborone and from Gaborone to Sebele about 9 km north
of Gaborone; and
B. The provision of technical assistance to strengthen the
staffing of the Road Branch of the Public Works Depart-
ment of Botswana.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31,
1976.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of the Proceeds of
the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit,
equivalent in the aggregate to about
US $6,000,000
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of
the IDA Credit, the allocation of amounts of such proceeds
to each category and the percentage of eligible expenditures
so to be financed in each category:
Allocation            %l, of
(expressed in U.S.     Expenditures
Category          dollar equivalent)    to be Financed
IDA      Swedish
Credit    Credit
I. Road re-      1,400,000  2,800,000  987 of total
construction                         expenditures
and paving
II. Consultant     130,000    300,000   100% of total
services for                        expenditures
Part A of the
Project
III. Technical       20,000     40,000   100o -of foreign
assistance                          expenditures
IV. Unallocated     430,000    860,000
rTOTAL     2,000,000  4,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means exponditures
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the terri-
tories, and in the currency, of any country other than Bots-
wana, provided, however, that if the currency of Botswana
is also that of another country in the territories of which
goods are produced or from the territories of which services


﻿16
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods
or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expendituies in
the currency of Botswana, or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, the territories of Botswana; and
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign and local expenditures.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement ex-
cept that withdrawals may be made from the Swedish
Credit and the IDA Credit in respect of Category II on
account of expenditures incurred after October 1, 1970 in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of US
$220,000; and
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of Bots-
wana or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or suipply
thereof. To the extent thtt the amount represented by the
percentage set forth in the fourth column of the table in
paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category would exceed
the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage
shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Swedish
Credit or of the IDA Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amounit of the pro-
coeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit set forth
in the second and third columns of the table in paragraph
1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amounts of the proceeds of the
Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit then allocated to such
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated


﻿17
by the Association by increasinig correspondingly the unal-
located amounts of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and
of the IDA CrLdit; and
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the fourth
column of the table of paragraph 1 above in respect of such
expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by Sweden
and the Association at the request of Botswana, to such
Category from the unallocated amounts of the proceeds of
the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit, subject, howeve i,
to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association in respect of any other expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the fourth
column of the table set out in paragraph 1 above, if the
estimate of expenditures under Category I shall increase
and no proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA
Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the
Association may, by notice to Botswana, adjust the percent-
age then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6. If any contract for the procurement of any item included
in any Category shall have been awarded according to pro-
cedures inconsistent with those set forth or referred to in
Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement, or if the Association
shall have reasonably objected to any such contract on the
ground that the procurement precedure followed is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in such
Section 3.04(a), or if the terms and conditions of any such
contract shall, without the Association's prior concurrence,
materially differ from those on the basis of which bids were
asked, Sweden and the Association may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any right, power or remedy of
Sweden and the Association under the Swedish Credit


﻿18
Agreement and the IDA Credit Agreement respectively, by
notice to Botswana, cancel such amount of the Swedish
Credit and the IDA Credit as in the Association's reason-
able opinion represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit,
had the procurement procedures followed not been incon-
sistent with those set forth or referred to in such Section
3.04(a).


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
With respect to aiiy contract for goods and services in
Category I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement:
(a) Bidders shall be required to prequalify and Bots-
wana shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Asso-
ciation in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request. Notice of the invitation
to prequalify shall be given to the representatives ac-
credited to Botswana of the member countries of the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (and
Switzerland) not less than 45 days before the date set forth
for such prequalification. In addition the invitation to pro-
qualify will be simultaneously advertised in appropriate
local publications in Botswana as well as in selected foreign
technical magazines of wide circulation. The list of pro-
qualified bidders, together with a statement of their quali-
fications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification, shall be furnished by Botswana
to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified and Botswana shall make such additions or
deletions from the said list as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) Before bids are invited, Botswana shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documeuts,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifica-
tions in the said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Association's coiicu-
rence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c) The firms invited to bid shall be allowed at least 60
days for the submission of their proposals. The bidding


﻿20
documents shall be accompanied by a bid bond or biank
guarantee amounting to not less than 3% of the estimated
contract value.
(d) After bids have been received and evaluated, Bots-
wana shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to whom it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Asso-
clation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to
in Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement or with the IDA
Credit Agreement or with the Swedish Credit Agree-
ment, promptly inform Botswana and state the reasons for
such determination.
(e) The succes-sful bidder in respect of civil works shall,
at Botswana's option, furnish either a performance bond
or a bank guarantee in an amount of not less than 10" of
the contract price, which bond or guarantee shall remain iii
effect until one year after completion of the works. In addi-
tion, the contract shall provide for retention of not less than
10%  of the cost of works on each monthly invoice. These
retentions may cease to be made when the cumulative
amount of such retentions reaches about 5% of the total
contract price. One-half of the retention moneys shall be
released when all the work has been substantially completed,
and the other half fourteen days after the termination of
the contractor's responsibility in respect of defects. The
period during which the contractor will remain responsible
in respect of defects in the works (fair wear and tear ex-
pected) will extend for one year after acceptance of the
wo rks.


﻿21
(f) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked.
(g) Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Swedish Credit Account and
the IDA Credit Account in respect of any such contract.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Design Speed                  km/hr.        100
Width of Roadway                m            10.7
Width of Surfacing              m             6.7
Width of Shoulders              m             2.0
Minimum Radius of Curvature     m           500
Maximum Grade (normal)          %             3
(exceptional)    %            5
Width Bridges (within curbs)    m             7.5
(footpaths)        m            0.75
Pavement Type               Double bituminous surface
treatment.


