CONFORMED COPY
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Road Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
DATED APRIL 27, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Road Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
DATED APRIL 27, 1972


﻿BruelopmPunt Tubgit Agru~mvit
AGREEMENT, between the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN, on the
one hand and the REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA, on the other hand
(hereinafter called the Agreement).
WHEREAS the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of
Botswana, desiring to strengthen the cooperation and cor-
dial relations between them, have agreed that as a contribu-
tion to the economic and social development of Botswana,
the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter called Sweden) shall
extend to the Republic of Botswana (hereinafter called
Botswana) a development credit (hereinafter called the
Swedish Credit) to assist in the financing of a highway
project described in Schedule 1 to the Joint Financing
Agreement (hereinafter called the Project), to be under-
taken by Botswana;
WHEREAs Botswana has entered into a development credit
agreement of even date (hereinafter called the IDA Credit
Agreement) with the International Development Associa-
tion (hereinafter called the Association) with regard to fur-
ther assistance towards the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS Botswana, Sweden and the Association have
also entered into an agreement of even date (hereinafter
called the Joint Financing Agreement) in respect of the
allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds of financing
under the aforementioned agreements and the execution of
the Project, as well as other matters;
Now THEREFORE Sweden and Botswana agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
The Swedish Credit
1. Sweden shall make available to Botswana a development
credit in an amount of twenty million five hundred thousand
Swedish kronor (SKr 20,500,000) subject to the provisions
of the Agreement, of which the attached Annex forms an
integral part, and to such other provisions as may be agreed
upon between the Parties.
2. The Swedish Credit shall be available for withdrawal in
an amount of one million Swedish kronor (SKr 1,000,000)
from the effective date of the Agreement, in a further
amount of four million Swedish kronor (SKr 4,000,000)
from July 1, 1972 iu a further amount of ten million Swed-
ish kronor (SKr -0,000,000) from July 1, 1973 and in its
entirety from July 1, 1974.
ARTICLE II
Use of the Proceeds of the Swedish Credit
Botswana shall use or cause the proceeds of the Swedish
Credit to be used in accordance with the Agreement and the
Joint Financing Agreement to assist, jointly with the credit
provided for under the IDA Credit Agreement, in financing
the Project.
ARTICLE III
The Special Account
The amount to be made available in accordance with
Article I shall be paid by Sweden, as required to meet re-
quests by Botswana for withdrawals, to the credit of an
account in Swedish kronor opened on the books of the
Sveriges Riksbank, Stockholm, acting as agent for Sweden.
The account shall be denominated "Republic of Botswana,
Special Account No. 1" (hereinafter called the Special
Account).


﻿5
ARTICLE IV
Withdrawal from the Special Account
1. Botswana shall be entitled, subject to the provisions of
the Agreement and the Joint Financing Agreement, to with-
draw from the Special Account such proportion of the rea-
sonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed by Sweden and the Association, either
separately or simultaneously, as agreed in accordance with
the terms of the Joint Financing Agreement.
2. The closing date for withdrawals shall be March 31, 1976,
or such other date as may be agreed upon between the
Parties.
ARTICLE V
Service of the Swedish Credit
1. Botswana shall pay to Sweden a service charge at the
rate of three fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%.) per annum
on the principal amount of the Swedish Credit withdrawn
from the Special Account and outstanding from time to
time. The service charge shall be payable semi-annually on
June 30 and December 31 in each year. The first payment
shall, however, not be made before December 31, 1973. The
service charge shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day
year of twelve 30-day months.
2. Botswana shall repay to Sweden the principal of the
Swedish Credit withdrawn from the Special Account in
semi-annual installments payable on June 30 and Decem-
ber 31 commencing June 30, 1982 and ending December 31,
2021, each installment to and including the installment pay-
able on December 31, 1991 to be one-half per cent (%%)
of such principal amount and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-%) of such principal
amount. Botswana shall have the right to repay in advance


﻿6
of maturity all or any part of the principal amount of one
or more maturities of the Swedish Credit specified by
Botswana.
3. The principal of and service charge on the Swedish
Credit shall be paid by Botswana in Swedish kronor to the
Sveriges Riksbank in favor of Sweden.
4. The principal of and service charge on the Swedish
Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free from,
any taxes and charges and free from all restrictions im-
posed under the laws of Botswana or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
1. Botswana shall furnish to Sweden evidence of the author-
ity of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Bots-
wana, take any action or execute any document under the
Agreement.
2. Any notice or request under the Agreement and any
agreement between the Parties contemplated by the Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been d-.ly given or made when delivered
through diplomatic channels.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
1. The Agreement shall become effective after it has been
signed by duly authorized representatives of the Parties and
concurrently with the IDA Credit Agreement becoming
effective.
2. The Agreement and all obligations of the Parties hete-
under, except those set forth in Article V and in the Annex,
shall terminate on a date 25 years after the date of the


﻿7
Agreement or the date upon which the Parties shall have
fulfilled all obligations, including those set forth in Article
V, arising from the Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Kingdom of Sweden and the
Republic of Botswana, acting through their representatives
thereunto duly authorized, have caused the Agreement to
be signed.
Done in the District of Columbia, United States of Amer-
ica, on the 27th day of April, 1972, in two original copies in
English.
For the
KINGDOM OF SWEDE.
By   I/s! HUBERT )i BESCHE
For the
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By /s/ CHIEF LINCHWE HI


﻿8
ANNEX
The following provisions shall govern the rights and obliga-
tions under the Agreement, of which they are considered an
integral part with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth therein.
Paragraph 1: Cancellation and Buspension
1.1 Botswana may by notice to Sweden cancel any amount
of the Swedish Credit which Botswan, shall not have with-
drawn, or with respect to which Sweden shall not be bound
through a special commitment entered into by the Asso-
ciation pursuant to the Joint Financing Agreement, prior
to the giving of such notice.
1.2 If any of the following events shall have happened and
be continuing, Sweden may by notice to Botswana suspend,
in whole or in part, the right of Botswana to make with-
drawals from the Special Account:
(a) A default shall have occurred in the payment of prin.
cipal or service charge under the Agreement.
(b) Botswana shall have failed to meet any other obliga-
tion under the Agreement or the Joint Financing Agree-
ment and shall not have rectified such failure after notice
by Sweden.
(c) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Botswana will be able to per-
form its obligations under the Agreement.
(d) The outstanding principal of the Credit provided for
in the IDA Credit Agreement shall have been declared, or
shall become, due and payable in advance of the agreed
iaturity thereof.


﻿9
(e) Botswana shall have cancelled any part of the Credit
provided for in the IDA Credit Agreement without having
cancelled a corresponding proportion of the Swedish Credit.
1.3 The right of Botswana to make withdrawals from the
Special Account shall continue to be suspended in whole or
in part, as the case may be, until the event or events which
gave rise to such suspension shall have ceased to exist or
until Sweden shall have notified Botswana that the right to
make withdrawals has been' restored, whichever is the ear-
lier; provided, however, that in the case of any such notice
of restoration the right to make withdrawals shall be re-
stored only to the extent and subject to the conditions
specified in such notice, and no such notice shall affect or
impair any rights, power or remedy of Sweden in re-
spect of any other or subsequent event described in
this Paragraph.
1.4 If (a) the right of Botswana to make withdrawals from
the Special Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Swedish Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in Article IV,
Section 2, of the Agreement as the closing date an amount
of the Swedish Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the
Special Account, Sweden may by notice to Botswana termi-
nate the right of Botswana to make withdrawals with re-
spect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount of the Swedish Credit shall be cancelled.
1.5 No cancellation or suspension by Sweden shall apply to
amounts with respect to which Sweden shall be bound
through a special commitment entered into by the Associa-
tion pursuant to the Joint Financing Agreement.
1.6 Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension all the
provisions of the Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect except as in this Paragraph specifically provided.


﻿10
Paragraph 2: Remedies of Sweden
If any event specified in subparagraph 1.2(a) or (e) of
Paragraph 1 shall occur and shall continue for a period of
thirty days, or if any event specified in subparagraph 1.2(b)
or (c) of Paragraph 1 shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by Sweden to Botswana, or if the event specified in
subparagraph 1.2(d) of Paragraph 1 shall occur, then at
any subsequent time Sweden, at its optiou, may declare the
principal of the Swedish Credit then outstanding to be due
and payable immediately, and upon any such declarationi
such principal shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in the Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Paragraph 3: Failure to Exercise Rights
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise any right,
power or remedy accruing to either Party under the Agree-
ment upon any default shall impair any such right, power
or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an
acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such
Party in respect of any default or any acquiescence in any
default, affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such
Party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Paragraph 4: Arbitration
(a) Any controversy between tHie 1arties to the Agree-
met and any claim by either Party against the other aris-
ing under the Agreement which cannot be settled in a satis-
factory manner through diplomatic channels, within six
months, will at the request of either Party be submitted
to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter
provided.
(b) The Parties to such arbitration shall be Sweden and
Botswana.
(c) The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitra-
tors appointed as follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed


﻿11
by Sweden; a second arbitrator shall be appointed by Bots-
wana; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter called the pre-
siding arbitrator) shall be appointed by agreement of the
Parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President of the
International Court of Justice or failing appointment by
him, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If
either of the Parties shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such
arbitrator shall be appointed by the presiding arbitrator.
In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this
Paragraph shall resign, die or become unable to act, a suc-
cessor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as
herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbi-
trator and such successor shall have all the powers and
duties of such original arbitrator.
(d) Arbitration proceedings may be instituted under this
Paragraph upon notice by the Parties instituting such pro-
ceeding to the other Party. Such notice shall contain a
statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or
claim to be submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief
sought, and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the
Party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days after
the giving of such notice, the adverse Party shall notify the
Party instituting the proceeding of the name of the arbi-
trator appointed by such adverse Party.
(e) If, within sixty days after the giving of such notice
instituting the arbitration proceeding, the Parties shall not
have agreed upon a presiding arbitrator, either Party may
request the appointment of a presiding arbitrator as pro-
vided in subparagraph (c) of this Paragraph.
(f) The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and
place as shall be mutually agreed by the Parties and failing
such agreement shall be fixed by the presiding arbitrator.
Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where
and when it shall sit.
(g) Subject to the provisions of this Paragraph and ex-
cept as the Parties shall otherwise agree, the Arbitral Tri-


﻿12
bunal shall decide all questions relating to its compi)etenice
and shall determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbi-
tral Tribunal shall be by a majority vote.
(h) The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the Parties a
fair hearing and shall render its award in writing. Such
award may be rendered by default. An award signed by a
majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award
of such Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall
be transmitted to each Party. Any such award rendered in
accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph shall be
final and binding upon the Parties to the Agreement. Each
Party shall abide by and comply with any such award ren-
dered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the pro-
visions of this Paragraph.
(i) The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Para-
graph shall be in lieu of any other procedure for the deter-
mination of controversies between the Parties to the Agree-
ment and any claims by either Party against the other Party
arising thereunder.
(j) Service of sny notice or process in connection with
any proceeding under this Paragraph or in connection with
any proceeding to enforce any award rendered pursuant to
this Paragraph shall be made through diplomatic channels.


