CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 303 BT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Road Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 27, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 303 BT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Road Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 27, 1972


﻿UrtilpmunI Tubgit Agu~rntrut
AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 1972, between the RE-
PUBLIC OF BOTSWANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Associ4-
tion to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 1 to the Joint Financing Agreement;
(B) By an agreement of even date herewith (hereinufter
called the Swedish Credit Agreement), the Ki-igdorn of
Sweden (hereinafter called Sweden) has agreed to Tmke
available to the Borrower for the Project a credit in an
aggregate principal amount of twenty million five hundred
thousand Swedish kronor (SKr 20,500,000) equivalent to
-ibout four million dollars ($4,000,000) upon the terms and
conditions therein set forth;
(C) By the Joint Financing Agreement of even date here-
with the Borrower, Sweden and the Association have agreed
on the allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds of the
Swedish Credit and the Credit and the execution of the
Project to be financed thereby, as well as other matters;
(D) The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agre as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applie,ule to


﻿4
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the follow-
ing modifications thereof (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Asso-
ciation, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions) :
(a) Paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"The term Project means the project or projects or
program or programs for which the Credit is granted,
as 0 .)cribed in the Joint Finanding Agreement and as
the description thereof shall be amended from time to
time by agreement between Sweden, the Association
and the Borrower."
(b) The second sentence of Section 3.02 is amended to
read as follows:
"A service charge at the rate of one-half of one per
cent ('/2 of 1o) per annum shall be payable on the
portion to be paid out of the Credit Account of the prin-
cipal amount of any special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Joint
Financing Agreement and outstanding from time to
time if, under such special commitment, the Association
shall have agreed to pay such principal amount not-
withstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation
of the Credit."
(c) Article V is deleted.
(d) Section 6.01 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.01. Cancellation by the Borrower. The
Borrower may by notice to the Association cancel any
amount of the Credit which the Borrower shall not
have withdrawn prior to the giving of such notice, ex-
cept that the Borrower may not so cancel any amount of
the Credit in respect of which the Association shall have


﻿0
entered into a special commitment pur-suant to Section
2.06 of the Joint Financing Agreement."
(e) Section 6.04 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.04. Amounts Subject to Special Commit-
went Not Affected by Cancellation or Suspevslon by
the Association. No cancellation or suspension by the
Association shall apply to amounts subject to any
special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Joint Financing
Agreement."
(f) Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the
Joint Financing Agreement" after the words "the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement".
(g) Section S.01 is amended by inserting the words "and
the Joint Financing Agreement" after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in the first sentence of
Section 8.01 and by inserting the words "or the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement" in the second sentence of Section 8.01.
(h) Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
under the Joint Financing Agreement" after the words
"the Development Credit Agreement".
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Auireement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Joint Financing Agreement" means the agreement,
referred to in Recital C to this Agreement, between the
Borrower, Sweden and the Association, as the same may be
amended from time to time by agreement of the parties
hereto; and
(b) "Swedish Credit" means the credit provided for in
the Swedish Credit Agreement.


﻿6
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to two million dollars
($2,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 2 to the Joint Financing Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed under
the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however,
that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawal. shall be made on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1976
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
,id the Association.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/i of 1 f ) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and


﻿7
September 1 commencing March 1, 1982 and ending Sep-
tember 1, 2021, each installment to and including the in-
stallment payable on September 1, 1991 to be one-half of
one per cent (/ of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1-1/1%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Joint Financing Agreement
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations set forth in the Joint Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will
be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its


﻿balance of payments, and the external debt of the Borrower,
of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency of the
Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the opera-
tions of the departments or agencies of the Borrower re-
sponsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them of its obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Joint Financing Agreement shall be free from any taxes
on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registra-
tion thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed


﻿9
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
SEcTION 6.01. If aiy event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then out-
standing to be due and payable immediately together with
the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration
such principal and service charges shall become due and
payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
SECTION 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events ai
specified:
(a) A default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower
under the Joint Financing Agreement;
(b) The outstanding principal of the credit provided for
in the Swedish Credit Agreement, or any part thereof, shall
have been declared, or shall become, due and payable in
advance of the agreed maturity thereof in accordance with
the terms of said Agreement; and
(c) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the credit provided for in the Swedish Credit Agree-
ment shall have been suspended, or the Borrower shall have
been unable to withdraw such proceeds, in whole or in part.
SECTION 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:


﻿1 0
(a) the event specified in Section 6.02(a) of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
(b) the event specified in Section 6.02(b) of this Agree-
nient shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in Section 6.02(c) of this Agree-
ment shall occur and the Borrower shall fail to obtain funds
from other sources in substitution therefor, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, within a period
of one hundred and twenty days.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTIOx 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions, namely, that the execution and
delivery of the Swedish Credit Agreement and the Joint
Financing Agreement on behalf of the parties thereto
respectively, other than the Association, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action,
and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of each such
Agreement or the right to make withdrawals thereunder,
except only the effectiveness of the other of such Agree-
inents or of this Development Credit Agreement or the right
to make withdrawals thereunder, shall have been fulfilled.
SECTION 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the (len-
oral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Association:
(a) the Joint Financing Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding obliga-
tion of the Borrower in accordance with its terms; and


﻿11
(b) the Swedish Credit Agreement has been duly author-
ized, executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Bor-
rower in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 7.03. The date of July 20, 1972 is hereby speci-
fled for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 4.02(a) of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 8.01. The Minister for the time being respon-
sible for Finance and Development Planning of the Bor-
rower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning
Private Bag No. 8
Gaborone, Botswana
Cable address:
Finance
Gaborone


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By   /s/ CHIEF LINCHWE 11
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ S. ALDEWERELD
Vice President


