Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rqut No. P-5377-LSO
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 15.1 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL AND AGROINDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 5, 1990
Thi document bas a restricted dnitbudon and may be used by recpieats only in the perfonance of
their officia dties. Its contents may not otherwise be dbiosed without World Dank autborizatfon



CURRENCY EQUgVALENTS
Currency Unit             -    Maloti (1) (singular is loti)
US$1.00                   -    M2.67 (March 1990)
M1.00                     -    US$0.3771
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          -   African Development Bank
BEDCO        -    Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
CBL          -    Central Bank of Lesotho
FTAS         -    Foreign Investment Advisory Services
GOL          -    Government of Lesotho
LADB         -    Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank
LHWP         -    Lesotho Highlands Water Project
LIPC         -    Lesotho Investment Promotion Center
LNDC         -    Lesotho National Development Corporation
MOA          -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOE          -    Ministry of Education
SACU         -    Southern Africa Customs Union
SHE          -    Small and Medium-scal Enterprises
VTE          -    Vocational and Training Education
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFMCL US ONLY
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrower:       Government of Lesotho
Beneficiaries:  Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL); Ministry of Trade and Industry
(MTI), Lesotho National Dovelopment Corporation (LNDC); Lesotho
Agricultural Development Bank (LADB); Basotho Enterprises
Developmaent Corporation (BEDCO); Ministry of Education (MOE);
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and selected agroindustrial
parastatals; participating banking institutions (PBis).
Amount:         SDR 15. million (US$21.0 million)
Terms:          Standard IDA terms. with 40 years maturity
Onlendinag
Terms:          Line of Credit. Government will pass US$4.7 million equivalent of
the IDA credit to the CBL in local currency at the onlending rate
to PBeIs minus a one percent administration fee. The CBL would
onlend this amount at the prevailing average cost of term depostts
in the banking system. The PBeIs would onlend the funds at a
variable rate based on market interest rates with maturities
ranging from a minimum of two to a maximum of twelve years.
- inclusive of grace periods of up to three years. The PBle would
bear full credit risk and would repay the CBL according to the same
maturities of the individual subloans to final beneficiaries.
Eauity Line. The GOL would provide US$1.9 million of the IDA
credit to LNDC which would manage the equity operation for a five
percent fee through a mutual fund arrangement. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk and the IDA couuiitment fee
charge. Dividends and capital gains realized would be passed back
to the mutual fund.
Industrial Infrastructure. The GOL will provide US$2.5 million to
LNDC at an interest rate of 8.8Z (current IBRD rate plus 1OZ) for a
period of twenty years including a grace period of three years.
LNDC shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
Agroindustries Component. The GOL would provide US$4.6 million of
the IDA credit to four agroindustrial parastatals to finance
management contracts and staff training. The funds would be onlent
at 8.81 (current IBRD rate plus 101) for a period of twenty years
including a grace period of three years.  Government would bear the
*                              foreign exchange risk.
Financine Plan: IDA                 US$21.0 million
Project Sponsors    US$ 1.4 million
LNDC                US$ 1.1 million
PBIs                US$ 1.5 million
Government          USS 0.3 million
TOTAL               US$25.3 million
Economic Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report : Report No.  8990-LSO
Map                    : 14282R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORNDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNAfIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL AND AGROINDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.1         The  following memorandum and recommendation  on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Lesotho for SDR 15.1 million (US$21.0
million equivalent) is submitted for approval.   Part I of the document
discusses Lesotho's development prospects and economic performance, and the
Bank Group's assistance strategy. It draws upon the third Policy Framework
Paper, covering the period 1990191 to 1992193, which was considered by the
committee of the whole on May 24, 1990. Part II of the document describes
the proposed credit.
I.   Country Policies and Bank Group Assistance Strategy
Background
1.2         Lesotho's economy is dominated by its dependence on South Africa,
which surrounds the small kingdom. About half of Lesotho's per capita income
of $470 (1989 est.) is derived from remittances of some 140,000 migrant
workers in the neighboring republic. Similarly, more than half its budget
revenues emanates from a South Africa-centered customs union. As a member of
the Common Monetary Area (CHA), Lesotho's currency is tied at parity with the
South African rand. Given the openness of the Lesotho economy and the lack
of exchange rate flexibility, the scope for conducting independent monetary
policy is very limited.   Fiscal policy is therefore the primary means
available to the Government to control domestic absorption, while the rate of
inflation closely follows price developments in South Africa. Lesotho is not
a debt-distressed country. In 1989190, debt service was only 5.0 percent of
exports of goods and services.
1.3         The links between Lesotho and South Africa have been extended
through a bilateral treaty that will enable Lesotho to export its only
plentiful natural resource -- water -- to the industrial Transvaal. Under
the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP), this will be done through an
extensive system of dams and tunnels, the first phase of which will be
constructed as a Bank-assisted project. A 70 MW hydropower station will be
integrated into the first phase.  The financing requirement of the water
transfer and hydroelectric power components is estimated at approximately
$2.3 billion and $0.24 billion, respectively, over the period 1988 to 1997 at
1989 prices. The funding for the water transfer component is expected to
come from commercial sources, and will be repaid and serviced by South
Africa, while the Government of Lesotho is seeking concessional and grant
funding for the hydroelectric power component.   The scheme will create
substantial benefits for Lesotho, with water royalties and customs union
rebates expected to equal 5 percent of GDP between 1990 and 2044, or over
$600 million net present value (1989 prices), as well as providing the
stimulus for spin-off enterprises.
1.4         The  prospect  of  escalating  revenues  and  greater  economic
opportunity highlights the deficiencies in Lesotho's macroeconomic planning



2
and budgetary management and structural weaknesses in the economy, all of
which must be addressed urgently. Economic management has suffered seriously
from the lack of a system for prioritizing and monitoring public
expenditures. Delays in financial reporting, weak budgetary control in the
infrastructure ministries, and virtually non-existent linkages between the
development plan and annual expenditure allocations contributed to a serious
escalation of the fiscal deficit during the late 1980s. The country's main
structural problems are: (a) inefficient and inequitable use of communal
land, contributing to serious environmental degradation; (b) lack of an
enabling environment for economic diversification to heip address a growing
unemployment problem and reduce dependence on mine labor in South Africa; and
(c) low implementation capacity and a marked decline in the quality of
education at a time of expanding employment opportunity.   The traditional
land-allocation system, dominated by the chiefs, has failed to regulate
livestock overgrazing and has supported inequitable distribution of grazing
rights. Land-use regulations have protected inefficient or absentee farmers,
while ignoring the tenurial security of women, who run many of the farms in
the absence of the menfolk in the South African mines. Arable production has
overemphasized food self-sufficiency at the expense of higher-value crops,
which were once successfully produced in Lesotho. In education, Lesotho has
traditionally enjoyed high literacy rates compared with other sub-Saharan
countries, especially among women, making effective use of a comprehensive
network of church-linked schools. However, high enrollment growth has not
been matched by quality control and development and maintenance of
infrastructure; as a result, overcrowded classes are taught by underqualified
teachers, with high repeater and drop-out rates. In the parastatal sector,
poor management and high subsidies result in a budgetary drain of about $10
million a year. These factors contributed to substantial deterioration in
the external current account and overall balance of payments in the mid-
19809.  The fiscal deficit (including grants) reached an estimated 20.4
percent of GDP (10.6 percent of GNP) in 1987/88.
1.5         To address this situation, the Government, in collaboration with
the staffs of the World Bank and the IMF, has designed a program of
macroeconomic and sectoral reforms. A major objective of the program is to
sustain domestic growth, while strengthening the economy's fiscal and
external current account position.  In the long term, Government strategy
seeks to maximize benefits from an expanding and changing relationship with
South Africa while doing more to develop new markets (e.g. the EEC) and deal
with the structural weaknesses that inhibit diversification of exports.
Manpower development is seen as an essential underpinning of these
objectives. The Government has also begun the politically-sensitive process
of land reform, environmental protection and reduction of population growth.
1.6         The specific policy measures and strategies were first set out in
a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1988/89 to 1990/91, and have been
reaffirmed and extended in the Second and Third PFPs which, in turn, have
received the support of the Fund through a SAF. The main components of the
program are: (a) measures designed both to restrain government expenditure
growth and raise additional revenue; (b) initiatives aimed at raising the
efficiency of the civil service, strengthening the planning process, and
improving budgetary management; (c) reform of the land tenure system and
improvements in range management; and (d) policy reforms in the industrial



3
and agroindustrial sectors to stimulate private investment and savings,
improve parastatal efficiency, and encourage privatization.
Recent Performance and Future Policies
1.7         Lesotho's performance was mixed over the first two years of the
program. While growth performance was encouraging, with an estimated average
growth rate in real GDP over the two years of 8.3 percent, implementation of
the reform program during the first year, 1988189, was disappointing, with
major slippages in the implementation of expenditure control and revenue-
raising measures, and consequently little improvement in the external
position.   In 1989/90, the situation was substantially reversed, as the
Government implemented appropriate revenue-raising measures and, more
importantly, introduced and substantially strengthened a number of
expenditure controls. The external position improved significantly during
the year, despite lower-than-anticipated export volume growth. The external
current account deficit is estimated at 3.9 percent of GNP--close to the
level targeted. However, the overall balance of payments surplus is expected
to be considerably less than targeted owing to shortfalls in net capital
inflows.   The  improvement  in the current account deficit  is closely
associated with both a substantial narrowing of the fiscal deficit, to a
projected level of 3.3 percent of GNP, and a fall in the level of domestic
credit expansion, to within the programmed targets.
Selected Economic Indicators
14"I Ww loom* 
46*  46.  Pm.
9 so "W Fe"                 0.8  1.8  %.$   S  .4 .       .8
me ._ o.t                    .   4.8  i.e  i.e   i.e   i.
orget ei w"in9 lobe         -1.e  4.1  -1.0  1.8   S.2   2.
-,g O       g epit 9i_  fenu   -.4.  4.6  -4.0  s.c   i.e   -i.*
O0sbtlmewieej   ofte.9e NW ee_iee  6.5  8.1  S.?  8.8   4.8   5.0
afe" I   _                  1.8  -.1  5.   4.9   1.4   87.8
tetlinel .ewise.W    S/     1.4.  .46.  1111  19.0  911.8  14.8
G-e, res.nU     of          46.8    80.9  .0    46.0  41.?  4.1
bvt. es1 _sftevew          #3.S  ".9  41.8  U.4  W.S   S$.
1491e1o(-) e 1_  )J  1      -4.0 -"11.  -18.8  43.4  -17.8   4.1
hfie*t.o eI Vel_(.)   /     1.9  4.1  4.0  -10.  -4.?  -4.8
145S11 otise jaes_ (to"      . 8.5  78  Ui.    n   a1s4.?
awl _   iste (1416          01.8  ".4  87.6  .8   95.4  41.8
cow   _e"O"O                -4.1  .0.1  87.8  18.   40.0   4.9
sete      t(etsl) S/        2.0  4.4  4S.  11.4   2.8   2.7
OCeutv* MUI% (lesS. f. tramd.)
(in &$ 11les of WM          8.4 -11.?  -1.1  .461  40.8   41.9
C..sat e    (loc. *i. _.%s..)/  1.1   4.6  40.- -7.1  4.8   4.9
Cfr"w    O"I(. *. VONOW1101  -U0.4  - .4  -YA.7  -10.2  -8.S   -1.6
I/   eludlsg uaresuts  tes*e_    e  (effll1l, *vivo*. sad UW).
S/ Ioeladias guest.
8/ B";ldias is..r" smeeslts with the i9.



4
1.8            Under the program, the Government has also taken a number of
steps to encourage both domestic savings and investment. The domestic prime
lending rate and the minimum savings deposit rate have been regularly
adjusted according to interest rate developments in South Africa, with a
convergence to South African levels.  The export financing scheme, first
launched in October 1988, has been maintained as a means of increasing the
flow of credit to productive industrial investment and exports by reducing
credit tisks to commercial banks.   Tax exemption on income from treasury
bills ht been abolished, thus increasing the relative attractiveness of
lending to the private sector.   Agricultural production and exports are
expected to increase as a result of the introduction of a revolving fund,
financed by the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), to provide
short and long-term credit to farmers through the commercial banks.
1.9            Under the PFP, the Government is coordinating its efforts with
the Bank, UNDP and bilateral donors to support a program to reform
macroeconomic management and the budgetary process and restructure the civil
service.   As part of the program, the function of parastatals will be
reassessed,  privatization  encouraged  where  appropriate,  and  future
performance monitored.  Substantial progress has already been achieved in
budgetary and personnel management and in the provision of management
training to civil servants.   A new budget management system recently
introduced in key ministries contributed to the reduction of government
expenditures; with strong donor and Bank assistance, the Government is
planning an expansion of the system to other ministries, while adapting it to
cover capital expenditures.
1.10           In other areas, progress has been slower. In agriculture, the
aim is to improve productivity and quality, and in turn provide the basis for
the  creation  of  agro-industrial  and  other  non-farm  employment.    In
particular, farmers are being encouraged to exploit Lesotho's potential for
the production of high-value crops, in which there has been some demonstrated
success (e.g. asparagus, melons and peaches). Overgrazing is to be reduced
through both t1; maintenance and expansion of a number of existing programs
and Zhe ir roduction of grazing fees in selected areas.  There have been
delays in implementing important proposals for land reform, which include the
extension of land-use rights to women and measures to promote informal
leasing arrangements; however the Government has begun a process of
democratization which will enable village communities to play a greater role
in land allocation and conservation.
1.11           The Government's proposals  for land reform and improved
agricultural productivity will generally be favorable to the environment.
They are being consolidated in a national environmental action plan, adopted
by the Government in 1989, which identifies the country's main environmental
problems, and calls for an inventory of current development activities
capable of addressing them, before any new investments are embarked upon. To
implement the plan, the Government intends to establish a supervising body to
coordinate the environmental initiatives of sectoral ministries. The link
between population and the environment is strong in Lesotho, given the
limited carrying capacity of the land.   Recently, the country's leaders
openly declared their support for population control, and the Government has
begun to formulate a population policy.



5
1.12           In the meantime, however, Lesotho faces a growing imbalance
between the growth in its labor force and its capacity to provide productive
employment. Although LHWP will be an important source of employment, with
the workforce reaching some 5,500 when construction peaks, the Government has
given priority to the preparation of an industrial sector strategy which will
form the basis for the proposed IDA credit and other financial and technical
assistance in the sector (see Section II). The strategy aims to do more to
help Basotho entrepreneurs take advantage of the liquidity in the banking
system by developing bankable projects, and deepening non-bank financial
instruments for providing venture capital.
1.13           Human resource development is another key element of the
program.   While Lesotho has a high literacy rate by Sub-Saharan African
standards, there has been a decline in the quality of primary education, with
oversized classes and high dropout and repeating rates.  To address these
problems, the Government is preparing a program with the assistance of the
World Bank, which wills (a) significantly improve the quality of primary
education; and (b) increase the relevance of post-secondary education and
training to accord better with national development requirements.
1.14           Poverty Alleviation.  The Government's anti-poverty program
has been carried out on two fronts: (i) through positive measures for
increasing per capita incomes; and (ii) through safeguards targeted at
vulnerable groups. The PFP program, and the relatively high economic growth
achieved in recent years, has had a generally favorable impact on standards
of living.   This has been complemented by the expansion of Government
programs for family planning, improved health-care provision in remote areas,
and special, permanent programs for tuberculosis, sexually-transmitted
disease and mother and child care. However, malnutrition is prevalent among
rural dwellers who lack both land and access to migrant remittances, and the
Government has agreed with donors to restructure its food relief program to
achieve better targeting. Safeguards are being provided to low-income groups
in the cost-recovery measures being taken by the Government in health care,
while a broad spectrum of tax increases exempts basic foodstuffs.
1.15           Economic Prospects.   In the projections prepared for the
Fourth PFP, the target for real GDP growth is set at an annual average of 8.3
percent over the period 1990191 through 1992/93, while gross investment as a
share of GNP is targeted at an average of 54.3 percent over the same period,
of which LHWP investment would comprise 24.3 percent. Similarly, national
savings are targeted at an average of 51.9 percent of GNP. This reflects the
substantial transfers to Lesotho associated with the financing of the water-
transfer component of the LHWP.   To consolidate the improvements in the
external position made during 1989/90, and to achieve a more comfortable
level of foreign exchange reserves, the fiscal deficit as a proportion of GDP
is targeted to fall from an estimated 6.1 percent (3.3 percent of GNP) in
1989/90 to a surplus of 5.0 percent (3.0 percent of GNP) in 1992/93. The
external current account deficit (including unrequited transfers, and those
associated with the LHWP) is projected to fall from an estimated 3.9 percent
of GNP in 1989/90 to 2.4 percent in 1992/93. The main risk is that, given
declining profits in gold mining in South Africa, and strong internal
employment pressures, there will be a significant repatriation of Basotho
miners with an associated fall in miners' remittances below those projected.
To maintain a satisfactory external position in such an event, public



6
spending would have to be cut to levels substantially below those targeted,
with adverse effects upon both public sector efficiency and the social
sectors, while domestic unemployment would be exacerbated by net return flows
of migrant mineworkers.
Bank Group Operations
1.16           Bank strategy is closely identified with the objectives of the
Government's program, and has three main points of focuss (a) sustaining the
recent improvement in the fiscal situation, wwhile strengthening long-term
economic management; (b) addressing structural problems in the key sectors;
and (c) maximizing the economic opportunities of LHWP. These objectives are
supported by the Policy Framework Paper, a comprehensive technical assistance
operation by UNDP and the Bank to improve public sector management, policy-
oriented sector lending by IDA, and economic and sector work.   The Bank
initiatives followed a change of government in Lesotho in 1986; since then
the Government-Bank dialogue has intensified, as the Lesotho authorities have
taken on a daunting agenda of policy reform following years of inaction by
the previous regime. High on the agenda is a democratization process now
being implemented under the auspices of a broad-based Constituent Assembly,
which has been set the task of obtaining a consensus on a democratic
constitution and holding elections to a national assembly by June 1990. A
significant part of this process is the proposed granting of greater powers
to elected village development councils in the allocation and protection of
land. An ongoing IDA-assisted project will help these communities prepare
and implement their own land-use plans.   Other policy issues on the
Government's agenda include: (a) the array of measures related to the project
proposed in this Memorandum, including privatization of agro-industrial
parastatals; (b) reform of land legislation to encourage greater equity and
efficiency in agriculture, especially in regard to women; (c) further
improvement of budget management, building on recent successes; (d) long-term
reform of the civil service; and (e) achieving a consensus on population
policy. Similarly, there has been effective Bank-Fund collaboration through
the PFP/SAP process.
1.17           Composition of Lending Throu8h FY90.    Since 1966, IDA has
provided Lesotho with credits totaling $158 million for 18 projects. Some
$47 million, or almost a third of total assistance, has been for human
resource development.   Lending for roads amounted to $34.6 million (22
percent), for agriculture and land management $27.6 million (17 percent) and
for urban development $26.4 million  (16 percent).   Other credits have
provided resources for development finance and water supply, and for the
engineering and technical assistance necessary for preparing LHWP. Lending
for infrastructure and basic services dominated lending for the first 17
years; more recently, prQjects have supported sectoral policy reforms (e.g.
in land management and housing finance) and addressed previously neglected
areas such as family planning and social sector financial management and
cost-recovery. With the exception of an engineering credit for preparing the
Highlands Water Project, implementation of IDA-assisted projects has been
subject to delays. These have been caused mainly be capacity constraints,
despite the provision of technical assistance and training in projects.
Several current donor initiatives are addressing the capacity problem, as
well as a proposed IDA-supported project and intensive technical assistance
by the Bank, UNDP and donors. Even if additional IDA funds were available,



7
capacity constraints would limit lending to Lesotho to the current level of
about one project a year.
1.18           Future Lending.  Lending during the FY91-95 period will be
dominated by the Lesotho Highlands Water Project, for which a $110 million
IBRD Pnclave loan is proposed. The project has been prepared with the help
of an ongoing IDA engineering credit. While most of the funding is expected
to come from commercial sources, the Bank's financing will be directed
towards construction supervision and the continued institutional development
of the specially-created Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (LHDA). The
latter will include support to LHDA for implementing comprehensive programs
for limiting the environmental impact of the project, and providing
compensation and rural development support for affected communities.
1.19           IDA lending, which is constrained by Lesotho's small size,
will give the highest priority to arresting the decline in the quality of
education. A Bank education sector study recommended a series of actions
required to reduce classroom overcrowding, raise the qualifications of
teachers, and deal with other root causes of high student dropout and failure
rates. Reforms in education administration and financial management were
also recommended.  The Government and Bank have begun discussions on how
these goals can be supported through a proposed IDA-funded project, which
would be coordinated with assistance from donors.
1.20           In the infrastructure sectors, a Bank Public Expenditure
Review faulted the Government for promoting new construction at the expense
of maintenance. In particular, agricultural marketing and rural development
is constrained by the frequently impassable condition of mountain roads,
while roads constructed with IDA assistance in the late 1960s and the 1970s
are in need of repair or rehabilitation.   Infrastructure maintenance is
included in the IDA lending program, subject to the outcome of a proposed
study that will prepare an inventory on the maintenance needs of roads and
other infrastructure (e.g. bridges, mountain airstrips), while recommending
long-term strengthening of maintenance services.
1.21           Future  IDA  lending  to  the  productive  sectors  will  be
determined by progress with the ongoing land management project, the outcome
of proposed agricultural sector work, and Government effectiveness in
implementing the proposed industrial strategy.
1.22           No IDA adjustment lending is envisaged for Lesotho.   The
ongoing PFPISAF program has been effective in preparing a comprehensive
agenda of policy reform, backed by investment and technical assistance
projects which support Government initiatives in sector adjustment.
1.23           Technical Assistance.   The Bank's technical assistance has
been provided through a number of vehicles (e.g. SPPFs and Bank-executed
projects funded by the UN and donors), and has been specifically designed to
support the objectives of the PFP. There has been some early success in a
coordinated effort by SIDA, ODA the Bank and Fund in strengthening budgetary
management and accounting; an effective pilot program introduced in key
ministries will gradually be extended throughout the bureaucracy, with
extensive retraining of personnel. A Bank SPPF has proposed a phased program
for achieving this. In a complementary action, the Bank is working with the



8
EEC in helping the Government create a special development fund to ensure
that LHWP revenues are used effectively and equitably. In the broader field
of civil service reform, the Bank joined a group of UN agencies in preparing
a comprehensive project for restructuring the civil service and provide
training to match. We expect to remain closely associated with the program.
The Bank took a leading role in helping the Government prepare its
Environmental Action Plan, which was adopted in 1989. We are continuing to
provide substantial support to the Government in setting up the
administrative machinery for implementing the plan, and in identifying the
priorities. The Government has accepted a Bank proposal for training village
development councils to implement simple technologies for sustainable
agriculture; this effort will be complemented by recent legislation
clarifying the role of the councils, and by the ongoing IDA-assisted project.
1.24           Economic and Sector Work.   Bank economic and sector work
helped provide the basis for the Government's reform program.   A Bank
agricultural review in 1985 focussed attention on the potential for high-
value crops; a 1986 public sector management study was the genesis for
present plans to reform the civil service; the Country Economic Memorandum of
1988 highlighted the vulnerability of Lesotho's dependence on South African
gold mining, urged greater diversification of the domestic economy, and drew
attention to the need for Lesotho's labor force to be ready to adjust to
changing opportunities in South Africa.   The findings of a recent Bank
education sector review will form the basis for future IDA assistance to the
sector (see Future Lending). In industry and agroindustry, a wide range of
studies and strategy formulations prepared the ground for the credit now
proposed, and are described in Section II.
1.25           During FY91-95, we are planning an economic update to assess
the impact of the Government's PFP-linked reform program, and recommend
follow-up actions.  In agriculture, our strategy is to increase the value
added within sustainable limits.  We support the Government's policy for
expanded production of high-value crops, given the high level of imports of
such crops, the prospect for export to Europe and South Africa, and the
advantages for maximizing the value added of Lesotho's very limited
cultivable land.   Through our ESW, we expect to help Lesotho assess its
experience in horticulture, and recommend ways of improving research,
extension, marketing and enterprise promotion in the subsector.    Family
planning support is provided by the Government, but a concerted effort to
reduce fertility has not yet been possible largely because of the resistance
of the churches, through which more than half of the country's primary health
care is delivered.   In recent years the country's leaders have openly
declared their support for a population policy, and the Government has begun
to formulate one. The Bank expects to support this effort through its ESW.
In the context of LHWP, we have helped the Government deal with institutional
weaknesses in the power sector, which must prepare itself for coping with
greatly increased transmission when the LHWP hydropower component is
complete. Our past technical assistance to the sector will be supplemented
in coming years through our ESW program.
1.26           Aid Coordination.  The UNDP Donor Roundtable for Lesotho was
revived at the Government's request in 1988 after a lapse of several years,
during which donor interaction had been ad hoc and increasingly ineffectual.
The Roundtable's opening conference has been followed by an ongoing series of



9
smaller working groups organized on a sectoral basis. Bank documents have
formed the basis for a number of meetings. The Policy Framework Paper has
helped to serve as a medium-term agenda for assistance coordination, while
LH'WP has intensified coordination among interested donors. Widespread donor
interest in the environment and public-sector management threatens to create
problems of overlap and conflict of goals; thus special donor workshops in
these sectors are planned during the current fiscal year.
1.27           Summary Assessment.  Lesotho is at a crucial juncture in its
economic development,  facing unprecedented opportunities and risks.   The
proposed Highlands Wat'?r Project, and subsequent phases of the scheme,
represent one of the largest infrastructu-e investments to be made in sub-
Saharan Africa. The project will enable Lesotho to export its only plentiful
natural resource -- w-ter -- and benefit from substantial revenues and spin-
off activities. But while developing this profitable long-term link with
South Africa, Lesotho is vulnerable elsewhere in its relationship with its
neighbor. Notably, the diminishing returns of the South African gold mining
industry, and strong employment pressures in the republic, threaten the job
security of many of the 140,000 Basotho migrant workers. Another risk is
that Lesotho will not make the effective developmental use of LHWP revenues,
thus wasting the best opportunity it has had to secure the economic future.
1.28           These circumstances make it imperative for Lesotho to be
strategically prepared for the changing circumstances. The Government that
came to power in 1986 has accepted the need for such an approach, and has set
itself an agenda of adjustment and policy reform through the PFP/SAF process
and through special initiatives such as an environmental action plan and a
program to strengthen public sector management and budgetary control. The
Government  aims  tot  (i)  achieve  effective  fiscal  discipline  and
prioritization of development goals before major LHWP revenues begin to
accrue; (ii) maximize the direct and long-term indirect opportunities Ox
LHWP; (iii) reduce its dependence on South African mining by diversifying the
domestic economy while sef4 ing to take advantage of changing employment
opportunities in the neighboring republic; and (iv) develop the human
resources to meet these challenges, giving particular urgency to reversing
the decline in the quality of education.
1.29           The Government has made good progress towards achieving some
of these goals. A marked improvement in fiscal policy and management has
arrested the escalating budget deficit and has contributed to encouraging GDP
growth. Also the Government has worked constructively with the Bank and
donors in preparing an agenda of policy reforms and other measures to help
diversify the economy, encourage investors and develop new industrial and
agroindustrial markets, and put agriculture on an environmentally-sustainable
basis. The real test will be in implementation. Urgent action is required
to execute the proposed land reform program, which is prerequisite to
sustainable agriculture; while the potential for high-value crops will be
realized only with improvements to the marketing infrastructure and enhanced
support for agribusiness. The Government must also build on the encouraging
progress in improving fiscal management by addressing serious weaknesses in
long-term economic planning and civil service performance.
1.30           The Bank's assistance program has been closely identified with
the reform program, both in its preparatory phase and in helping to implement



10
specific objectives. While the Highlands Water Project dominates our lending
for the next five years, our program in general aims to provide a sound
macroeconomic framework for maximizing the benefits of LHWP to Lesotho and
helping the country deal with the changing geopolitical risks and
opportunities.
II. The Proposed Credit
1.31           The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40
years maturity and would help finance an industrial and agroindustries
development project.    There  is no cofinancing.    Donor assistance  to
institutions participating in the project is being provided or planned by the
German Government, the United States Agency for International Development,
the African Development Bank, the European Economic Community and the
Canadian Government.
Background and Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.32           In support of its strategy to diversify the economy and reduce
dependence on South Africa, the Government has given priority to industrial
sector development focussed on labor-intensive and export-oriented industry.
Substantial progress has already been made in the sector with average
industrial growth exceeding 18Z per annum over the past 20 years -- a record
without precedent in contemporary Africa. Nonetheless, the structure of the
sector has weaknesses. First, it is dominated by foreign-owned firms which
have located in Lesotho primarily because of trade-related motivations--
primarily sanctions or quota avoidance--which may be transitory. The 'foot-
loose character of investment patterns leaves the economy at risk should
international trade policies change and result in a surge in firm
relocations. Second, there is an absence of backward and forward linkages
with the country's natural resource base and with purely local industrial
capacity which could develop from subcontract opportunities and thereby
provide industrial continuity if and when trade-related distortions are
removed. Third, subsidized credit policies have weakened the performance of
key development finance institutions including the agricultural development
bank (LADB) and the organizations responsible for industrial finance (LNDC
and BEDCO).   As a result their ability to effectively provide financial
services to support industrial and agroindustrial investment has been
negatively affected.
1.33           The Government and IDA have carried out several studies as
sector work and project preparation to address these issues. Studies have
included a financial sector review, a diagnostic review of Lesotho's
investment environment carried out by the Foreign Investment Advisory
Services (FIAS-IFC), a review of the tax incentives framework to promote
investment in the industrial sector, a review of Lesotho's comparative
advantage in various agro-industrial activities, and a study on manpower
planning and skills development to support industrial development. This body
of work, which has benefitted from a series of interviews with Lesotho's
investor community, has been the basis for intensive dialogue and the
development with the Government of an Industrial Sector Strategy.   This
strategy guides a comprehensive program consisting of policy reforms,
invest-ents, introduction of new investor services, and strengthening of



11
financial and industrial sector institutions to increase industry's role in
employment generation and for overall economic development. The proposed and
future projects in the sector would implement the strategy.   The policy
dialogue is well advanced and several key policy reform measures have already
been voted into law.   Therefore, IDA is well positioned to support the
proposed project. An additional rationale for IDA involvement is that the
project would support Basotho enterprises to take advantage of economic
benefits accruing from the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP).  Some
project interventions directly focus on developing contract and subcontract
linkages  between  indigenous  investors  and LHWP  opportunities,  thereby
reducing the enclave character of this major investment.
Proiect Objectives
1.34           The principal project objective is to promote private foreign
and indigenous investment in the industrial and agroindustries sectors. The
proposed project pursues a multi-faceted approach to promoting industrial
investment including (a) policy reforms in the industrial, agroindustrial and
financial sectors which would deregulate key aspects of the investment code,
remove distortions, and provide incentives and services to improve the
environment for private investment; (b) financial sector components which
have the objective to increase access to loan and equity finance by
indigenous enterprises, including small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs)
and women-owned businesses, and agro-industrial enterprises; (c) investment
promotion activities to provide new investor services, provide for the timely
availability of serviced factory shells, deepen subcontract linkages between
foreign and indigenous enterprises, and in the medium-term diversify the
subsector composition of industrial investment into higher value added and
agriculture-based activities; (d) agroindustrial development to improve the
efficiency of the large parastatals by supporting their operation on a
commercial basis and their eventual privatization; (e) institutional
strengthening and capacity development activities intended to i) provide
sustainable capacity in the field of investment promotion, ii) strengthen the
financial and management performance of key financial institutions and build
their capacity to do project appraisals and to manage project-based loan
portfolios, iii) train entrepreneurs and labor in management and technical
skills necessary to increase the pool of skilled manpower and improve the
quality and competitiveness of products manufactured in Lesotho, and iv)
provide ongoing evaluation and feedback about the quality of new investor
services and policy reforms in improving the investment environment.
Project Description
1.35           The project would finance (a) a line of credit for project-
based term lending to be onlent through commercial banks to non-traditional
bank clients in the industrial and agroindustrial sectors; (b) a Lesotho
National Development Corporation (LNDC)-administered equity/venture capital
fund to support equity investments, especially by indigenous enterprises; (c)
management contracts and associated training to strengthen the performance of
four agroindustrial enterprises and to put their operations on a commercial
basis in prenaration for their privatization; (d) industrial infrastructure
to ensure the timely availability of electricity, telecommunications, water,
and roads to industrial estates and factory shells -- a critically important
service required by investors; and (e) Institutional Strengthening and



12
Capacity Development as followss (1) indigenous and foreign investment
promotion and services including (i) establishment of a Business Advisory and
Promotion Service (BAPS) to provide information on business and subcontract
opportunities and on training and advisory assistance available to indigenous
enterprises, and (ii) establishment of the Lesotho Investment Promotion
Center (LIPC) to provide "one-stop" investor service (including the leasing
of industrial land for private development) and to promote foreign direct
investment; BAPS and LIPC would be supported by a twinning arrangement with
an established investment promotion authority for advisory support and
training; (2) a manpower development program for training in technical and
business skills, respectively for labor and indigenous entrepreneurs, through
attachment and in-service training programs collaboratively designed by
businesses and the vocational and training education (VTE) system;  (3)
training in project appraisal for commercial banks, LNDC, the agricultural
bank (LADB), the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO), and the
Lesotho Manufacturers Association; (4) advisory support to LNDC, LADB and
BEDCO to strengthen their corporate and financial performance in providing
industrial estates, banking services and project preparation assistance to
industrial investors; and (5) two Beneficiary Assessments (carried out during
the third and fifth years of project implementation) to gauge investor
attitudes with respect to the investment environment and quality of services
offered by LIPC and BAPS. The first assessment, to be discussed with the
Government during a Joint GovernmentlIDA Project Mid-Term Review (March 1993)
would be the basis for implementing further policy reforms, improving
services, and modifying institutional arrangements, as necessary.
1.36           In addition, the project supports a number of policy reforms
(para. 1.37). Those in the industrial sector fine tune and improve the cost
effectiveness of policies affecting investment decisions.  Reforms in the
agroindustrial sector are targeted at major distortions resulting from the
use of the agroindustrial parastatals as instruments of social policy,
including their responsibility for distributing substantial producer and
consumer subsidies. These policies impede efficiency, drain the budget, and
thwart private investment where viability is impossible in competition with
subsidized parastatal operations. While generally Lesotho's financial sector
is market oriented, key distortions impede the development of term lending
and make it more attractive for banks to lend to the government than to the
private sector.   Removal of these distortions are expected to improve
incentives for development of new financial instruments (including project-
based  term  lending and additional  resource mobilization  instruments),
encourage more aggressive banking practices, and increase availability of
financial services.
Actions Agreed
1.37           The policy dialogue is well advanced.   The Government has
shown substantial commitment including a letter confirming its plans to carry
out substantial policy reforms to support the project's investment promotion
objective. Already it has implemented and agreed to maintain the following
actions: (a) replacement of the administratively cumbersome and overly-
generous tax holiday system with a 152 rate of tax, (b) repeal of the policy
that LNDC would require a majority share-holding in resource-based foreign
enterprises, and (c) repeal of the tax exempt treatment of treasury bills.
Additional industrial sector reform measures to be carried out by June 30,



13
1991 are as follows: (a) implementation of a streamlined process to grant
work permits to foreign companies for key management staff and technical
experts, (b) allocation of industrial land for private sector development,
(c) setting of the minimum wage to take into account Lesotho's competitive
position vis-a-vis other potential investment sites, and (d) improved
coordination for the timely provision of electric and telephone services to
industrial estates. Agroindustrial sector reforms are as follows: (a) By
October 31, 1991, the Government would eliminate existing subsidies, price
and import controls, government grants and budgetary transfers affecting
agroindustrial parastatals and introduce measures to put their operations on
a commercial basis; (b) the project assisted parastatals would be registered
under the Companies Act with full autonomy; and (c) By April 1, 1993, private
sector participation in each company would be negotiated and shares offered.
The outstanding financial sector reform to be implemented is as follows: (a)
By October 31, 1991, the Government would pay market yields on long-term
treasury bonds.
1.38           Other conditions include measures intended to strengthen key
financial institutions as followss   (a) LADB would (i) halt its branch
expansion program, (ii) by March 1992, a Strategic Corporate Plan of Action
would be developed, and (iii) by June 1992, agreement would be reached with
IDA on key steps to be undertaken to put the institution on a viable basis;
(b) BEDCO would (i) carry out a reorganization consistent with its new focus
on provision of industrial estate and workshop facilities and on project
preparation assistance to SMEs, (ii) implement a cost recovery rental policy,
and (iii) carefully screen SMEs admitted to industrial estates. Conditions
of Disbursement of the Line of Credit to LADB and LNDC reinforce institution
building objectives as followss   (a) LADB would implement key aspects
identified in its Strategic Corporate Plan; and (b) LNDC would (i) adjust
interest rates to subborrowers to rates sufficient to cover costs, risk and
leave a margin for profit; (ii) implement resource mobilization through a
bond issue or other instrument; and (iii) submit to IDA an acceptable plan to
increase income, reduce costs and improve collection performance on loan
operations.    Conditions  of Disbursement  on Management  Contracts  for
Individual Agroindustrial Parastatals would be (a) prior implementation of
policy measures affecting the individual companies and (b) execution of a
subsidiary agreement between the Government and the parastatal.  Conditions
of Disbursement for the Industrial Infrastructure Component are agreement
with IDA on (a) a formula for sharing the costs of main distribution lines
between end-users and Lesotho Electric Corporation (LEC) and Lesotho
Telecommunications Corporation (LTC) respectively and (b) construction
standards and procurement arrangements to be applied to utility networks.
Conditions of Effectiveness would be (a) an executed subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and the Central Bank and between the
Government and LNDC; and (b) an executed participating bank agreement between
the Central Bank and at least one participating bank.
Benefits
1.39           The investment and industrial infrastructure components are
expected to continue to encourage and help finance investment in labor
intensive manufactures which substantially contribute to job creation. Over
time, it is expected that promotion efforts would diversify the subsectoral
composition of industry and change the "footloose character of foreign



14
investment by encouraging higher value added activities and industries based
on agriculture. Self-employment opportunities and subcontract linkages with
the LHWP and foreign firms would be encouraged by (a) initiation of the BAPS
to support SMEs with information on business opportunities and related
advisory assistance; and (b) programs which link indigenous and foreign
investors in ongoing advisory relationships to develop subcontract potential.
These components are expected to generate about 3,500 new jobs and to provide
advisory assistance to 500 indigenous investors over five years. The strong
export-orientation of new firms, given Lesotho's preferential market access,
is expected to improve balance of payments performance. The agroindustries
component would provide for the efficient operation of key parastatals,
reduce their drain on the government deficit, improve the potential for
private agroindustrial development, and expand markets for high value crops
as a result of a more dynamic and efficient subsector.   The institution
building component is expected to provide sustainable capacity in key
financial and industrial development institutions.   Policy reforms are
expected to reduce costs and uncertainty and thereby encourage private
investment and the provision of a fuller range of financial services.
Risks
1.40           Political uncertainty in South Africa (RSA) and the potential
removal of sanctions against the RSA could jeopardize the project's overall
investment promotion  objective.    The  risk  surrounding the  lifting of
sanctions is mitigated by Lesotho's preferential access to markets and low
labor costs which still gives it an advantage over the RSA for export
oriented investors. From Lesotho there is easy access both to the large and
growing RSA market through the Southern Africa Customs Union (SACU) and to
external markets where preferential (tariff-exempt) access is available to
Lesotho through the Lome Convention and General System of Preferences
arrangements. While the prospect of political change in RSA Africa has so
far positively affected investor attitudes towards the region, if the process
is prolonged and internal unrest grows, investor attitudes may change. On
the other hand, changes in RSA's economic development policies away from
heavy subsidies for investors in the 'homelands' should enable Lesotho to
compete  for  foreign  investment  on  more  even  terms.    The  eroding
competitiveness of Basotho Labor in the region with respect to wage rates,
skill levels and productivity puts at risk Lesotho's investment promotion
strategy based on labor intensive production. This risk is mitigated by the
project manpower and skills training program and by policy reforms related to
the setting of wage rates.   The principal risk to the development of
financial markets is that the government deficit will again crowd out
financing to the privete sector and counteract project efforts to promote
project-based term lending.   This risk is mitigated by the successful
expenditure control program being implemented under the PFP program and the
increased revenue resulting from increased SA'U receipts from LHWP related
imports. Risks related to implementation of the policy reform program are
mitigated by provision of analytical work and a Mid-Term Review which
supports continued dialogue in areas in which the Government has shown
substantial commitment.



15
Recaouendation
1.41           I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
December 18, 1990



Schedule A
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGROINDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Proiect Cost Sunmary                Local       Foreign      Total
---- US$ (millions) 
Investment Credit                        2.4            4.7       7.1
Equity Financing                         0.6            1.9       2.5
Foreign Investment Promotion             0.7            0.6       1.3
Indigenous Investment Promotion          0.3            0.2       0.5
Skills Training and Trade Testing        0.1            0.4       0.5
Agro-Industrial Development              0.0            4.6       4.6
Technical Assistance and Training        0.0            4.1       4.1
Beneficiary Assessments and Studies      0.0            0.2       0.2
Industrial Infrastructure                0.5            2.5       3.0
Total Base Costs                         4.6           19.2      23.8
Contingencies                            0.2            1.3       1.5
Total Project Costs                      4.8           20.5      25.3
Financing Plan:
IDA                                      0.5           20.5      21.0
Project Sponsors                         1.4            0.0       1.4
LNDC                                     1.1            0.0       1.1
PBIs                                     1.5            0.0       1.5
Government                               0.3            0.0       0.3
Total                                    4.8           20.5      25.3



Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGROINDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD
Project Element                   Procurement Method                   Total
ICB ILCB       ILS          NA
--------s(S$ million)-------
Investment Credit
and Equity                    --             --          9.6            9.6
(6.6)          (6.6)
Equipment and Vehicles         1.4            0.6         --              2.0
(1.4)         (0.6)        --             (2.0)
Civil Works                    -_             --          1.2             1.2
--  --    (0.7)           (0.7)
Consultancies, Studies,
Training                      _             __          9.7            9.7
(9.7)          (9.7)
Other (Recurrent Costs,        --             --          2.8             2.8
refund, PPF Advance, and                               (2.0)          (2.0)
unallocated contingies)
Total                       1.4            0.6       23.3            25.3
(1.4)         (0.6)      (19.0)          (21.0)
Notes Pigures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit



Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
DISBURSENENTS
Category                    Amount                2
Line of Credit                  4,700,000      802 of subloans by PBIls
Equity Line                     1,900,000      1002 of investments
Infrastructure Development      2,500,000      802 of civil vorks and 1002
of foreign expenditures for
goods
Equipment for other
parts of the project            200,000      1002 of foreign expenditures
and 852 of local expenditures
Consultant services and         9,700,000      1002 of foreign expenditures
training
Refunding of Project              150,000
Preparation Advance
Unallocated                     1,850,000
21.000,000
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ million)
FY91     FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95     FY96
Annual          1.5       1.5      4.0      4.0       5.0      5.0
Cumulative      1.5       3.0      7.0     11.0     16.0      21.0



Schedule C
LESOTBO
INDUSTRIh1t AND AGROINDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Proiect Processing Events
(a) Time taken to prepares                   16 months
(b) Prepared bys                             Government with IDA assistance
(c) First IDh missions                       October 1989
(d) Appraisal mission departure:             February 1990
C.) Negotiationss                            October 1990
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:           March 1991
Relevant PCR. and PPARss
(1) Lesotho Nationsl Development Corporation (LNDC) and Basotho
Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO) Project Completion Report
(Credit 702-LSO) dated March 14, 1984, Report No. 4987.
(2)  Second IDA Credit to the Lesotho National Development Corporation
(Credit 985-LSO), Project Completion Report dated October 9, 1990.



Schedule D
THE STATUS OF RANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
A. STATEMENT OF LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of July 30, 1990)
Amount n 1US$ million
(less cancellation)
Loan or         Fiscal
Credit No.      Year      Borrower  Purpose         IDA       Undisbursed
13 Credits have been fully disbursed                14.29
Cr. 14810       1984      Lesotho   Highways IV    15.20             2.91
Cr. 15120       1985      Lesotho   Education IV   10.00             6.29
Cr. 15850       1985      Lesotho   Health/Pop.      3.50            1.93
Cr. 18970       1988      Lesotho   Land Mgt.&
Conservation   16.00           15.28
Cr. 18980       1988      Lesotho   Urban SI        20.40           17.17
Cr.             1989      Lesotho   Second Pop.,
Health, and
Nutrition      12.10          11.22
77.20          54.80
B 3  STATD - OP IFC NVTMENTs
(As of July 30, 1990)
Investment      Fiscal                    Type of
Number          Year      Obliaor         Business   Loan  ELuity   Total
-^---  lS'0000------
406-            78,81     Lesotho
Quaity
Aggregate
Industry Ltd.   lninig    299.0    1.0    300.0
Total gross commitments                             299.0     1.0    300.0
Less cancellations, termination,                    299.0     1.0    300.0
repayments and sales
Total commitments nov held by IFC                     0.0     0.0       0.0
Total undisbursed                                     0.0     0.0       0.0



\                                t            ee             -- - 82eo  -_   __ _    NRD 1420 2
1524~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SE2-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --;a
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~888 88888*9*.8         Inuatac SAorwG .od ,w7"t. .{jr\_  ed 
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ GOV.8f  Th mm.tm$      Z9GEO ESUtTEA
AVAI Qcovooouss  - <S   q * wb~v
fv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m. 0' -*48- ml '  '. ehw
k  __ _ .~            *5*t L548lFo.o.  ll.
JUtY 19187



