Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19260
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2195-LS)
May 3, 1999
Private Sector and Finance
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = Loti
US$1.0 = M 5.8 (February 1999)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAPS            Business Advisory and Promotion Services
BEDCO           Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
EIB             European Investment Bank
IPC             Investment Promotion Center
KfW             Kreditanstaltfur Wiederaujbau
LHWP            Lesotho Highlands Water Project
LNDC            Lesotho National Development Corporation
MTI             Ministry of Trade and Industry
SME             Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Director:          Pamela Cox
Task Team Leader:  Simon Gray
ICR prepared by:    Gabrielle Rooz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LESOTHO
INDUSTRY AND AGRO-INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2195-LS)
Table of Contents
Page
Evaluation  Summary  ............................                             ....................................                 i - iv
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Background .................................................................1
B. Project Objectives ..............................................................                                        1
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation  ..........                                  ......................       3
D. Achievement of Objectives and Implementation Record  .........                                      ..............       4
E. Project Sustainability  ................................................................                                 9
F. Assessment of Outcome .............................................................                                     10
G. Bank Perfonnance  ................................................................                                      10
H. Borrower Performance  ..............................................................                                    11
I.  Future Operation  ................................................................                                     12
J.  Key Lessons Learned  ................................................................                                  12
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table  1:   Summary of Assessments ..............................................................                                   14
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans and Credits ...........................                              ..........................       14
Table 3:    Project Timetable  ................................................................                                     15
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements                                                       15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ...............                                 ..........................    15
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation  ..................                             ..............................      15
Table 7:    Studies Included in the Project .................................                          ......................       15
Table 8A:  Project Costs ..................................                             ..............................              16
Table 8B:  Project Financing  ................................................................                                      16
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .                         .......................................................            16
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants  ............................................................                                 17
Table  11: Bank Resources; Staff Inputs . ........................................................                                   19
Table  12:  Bank Resources; Missions ............................................................                                   19
Part III: Appendices
Aide-Memoire for the ICR  mission  ...............................................................                                  25
Borrower's comments on the ICR   ................................................................                                   29
Cofinanciers' comments on the ICR  ............................................................                                     36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
INDUSTRY AND AGRO-INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2195-LS)
Preface
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industry and Agro-Industry
Development Project, for which Cr. 2195-LS in the amount of SDR 15.1 million (US$21 million
equivalent) was approved on December 1990 and made effective on September 1991.
2.   This project was completed in June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of June 30,
1996. Final disbursement took place in December 18, 1999. An estimated undisbursed balance of SDR
1.4 million (US$1.7 million equivalent) is expected to be canceled. In addition, the Government has
agreed to refund US$0.7 million to account for the full recovery of the initial deposit to the special
account.
3.   The ICR was prepared by Gabrielle Rooz, and the Team Leader was Simon Gray, AFTP1. It was
reviewed by Pamela Cox, Country Director (CD1), Mr. Brian Falconer, Principal Operations Officer,
(OS2), Mr. Steve Gaginis, Disbursement Officer (LOAAF), and the previous task teams.
4.   Preparation of the ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision mission in April 1998. It was
completed in February 1999. The mission discussed effectiveness of the operation with the relevant
Ministry, the executing agencies, and a sample of beneficiaries. The report is also based on materials in
project files. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing comments on the report,
which are included as appendix. Copies of the ICR were also sent to EIB and KfW for comment. Their
comments are also included as appendixes.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
INDUSTRY AND AGRO-INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2195-LS)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction/Project Background
1.   The Industry and Agro-Industry Development Project was prepared in 1988 at a time when
economic outlook for Lesotho was highly uncertain in the context of the post-apartheid economic and
political future of South Africa, given Lesotho's critical dependence on that country, particularly for
employment. At the same time, the country's industrial sector grew at an average of 18% per annum
over a 20-year period accounting for about 11 percent of GDP in 1986. Lesotho's industrial development
was however characterized by an enclave-like formal sector dominated by foreign firms in textiles and
garments, and footwear. The agro-industrial sub-sector was distorted and dominated by state-owned
enterprises in food and beverages. Policy and other interventions had not effectively addressed the
financing and promotional needs of the indigenous enterprises. Against this background, the Govenmment
and the Bank jointly developed an industrial strategy, and the project specifically supported several
measures. A policy reform program was to be formulated to eliminate a costly tax holiday and
regulations. Foreign investment and linkages were to be promoted to attract fiuther foreign investment
and promote development of linkages to deepen the industrial base. The small and medium scale
enterprises were to be developed to redress the high dependence of the industrial sector on the foreign
sector. The last measure was to expand access to financial services.
Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.   As stated in the staff appraisal report, the project's overall objective was to encourage private
foreign and indigenous investment in the industrial and agro-industries sector. The project included four
main objectives. The first objective was to support policy changes to improve the environment for private
investment. The second objective was to help investors take advantage of opportunities created by the
Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP), for which the Bank financed phase 1 (a). The third objective
was to support subcontract linkages between the fonnal industrial sector and small and medium scale
enterprises. The fourth objective was to diversify investment into higher value-added and agriculture-
based industries in the medium-term. To support the objectives, the project financed five components: (a)
a line of credit (US$4.7 million); (b) an equity find (US$1.9 million); (c) industrial infrastructure
(US$2.9 million); (d) agro-industrial development (US$5.0 million); and (e) institutional strengthening
(US$5.9 million). Parallel financing for the infrastructure component was provided by EIB and KfW for
US$4.2 million and US$3.5 million equivalent, respectively.
3.   The project's first objective, which aimed at creating an enabling policy environment to enhance
the quality of investment from a longer-term development perspective, was relevant and timely. It was
substantially achieved. The other three objectives, which sought to promote the development of the
indigenous private sector, were relevant but untimely. The objectives proved ambitious in the context of
Lesotho's private sector, as they did not take into account the characteristics of the sector. They were not
achieved.
Project Implementation Experience and Results
4.   The key success of the project was reforms of investment incentives and investment promotion.
The Investment Promotion Center (IPC), established under the project to serve as a one-stop shop to



ii
potential foreign investors, was successful in attracting foreign investrnents into the clothing and footwear
industry, and linking this to the provision of industrial infrastructure. Twenty-eight new projects were
implemented over the life of the project as a result of the IPC's successful promotional program. These
projects generated a total of 8,110 jobs, compared to an appraisal estimate of 3,500 jobs. The investments
have also boosted exports, a year-on-year growth of 40% over 1991-1994.
5.   The line of credit experienced slow disbursement because of itsmisfocus on small and medium
scale enterprises when micro-enterprises represented the bulk of the small-scale enterprise sector. Lines
of credit through the formal banking system do, however, generally not meet the financing needs of the
micro-enterprises. The credit line also suffered from distress in Lesotho Bank as well as management
problems, compounded by bad credit collection policies, a culture of debt non-repayment, and a slow
legal enforcement system. The equity fund also experienced slow disbursement and did not start
disbursing until 1995, primarily because the project did not make an adequate assessment of the potential
demand for equity finance. The agro-industrial component experienced substantial delays in
implementation due to lack of Government consensus on the policy reforms. The industrial infrastructure
component was the most satisfactorily implemented in terms of job creation. Project funds were used as
planned. In addition, when parallel donor financing by KfW and EIB proved insufficient to meet rising
demand for advance factory space, the Bank approved the Government's request to make up for the
shortfall. However, while the project recognized the need to provide adequate basic infrastructure to
private investors, fundamental reforms in telecommunications, water, and electricity sectors needed to
underpin private sector development were not squarely addressed until 1994 and appropriate measures not
taken until the last year of the project. The necessary reforms are now under discussion as part of a
companion Privatization and Regulatory Reform Project scheduled for FY2000.
6.   Most of the investment policy reforms were implemented satisfactorily. The costlytax holiday was
replaced by a general 15 percent corporate tax rate. Tax exemption on T-Bills was removed in 1992. The
policy of requiring LNDC majority participation in resource-based projects was repealed in 1991.
LNDC management adopted a policy of costr-recovery for building rental rates. With respect to
issuance of work permits and industrial licensing, there was a cycle of partial progress followed by
backsliding throughout the project. Lesotho's wage inflation was not a major problem during the project
because of the constant depreciation of the Rand. Nevertheless,the minimum wage process remains
unsatisfactory despite attempts in 1995/96 to improve it. Increases in minimum wages did not follow a
particular structure, and this made planning of business operations difficult for private investors. A more
competitiveness-sensitive mechanism needs to be established. Land availability to private investors
through the MTI has not yet materialized.
7.   The institutional capacity development component was implemented satisfactorily for some
activities but not for others. Support to promotional activities for industrial investment and private sector
development. Of all IPC's key tasks, the highest priority was given to new job-generating investments,
which IPC achieved with a high degree of success. Training for local staff in investnent promotion
techniques and management yielded good results and IPC can now carry out the activities satisfactorily.
The most successful activity of the Business Advisory and Promotion Services agency (BAPS),
established to promote the indigenous sector,, was its advisory services. BAPS role in linkage
development between the indigenous sector and the Lesotho Highlands Water Project and the large-scale
sector went unfulfilled because of the small size and low capacity of the indigenous sector. Because of a
lack of in-built mechanism in project design to ensure sustainability of both agencies through self-
financing, at the end of the project the Government was faced with the problem of providing adequate
funding to continue their activities. Support to financial institutions. The technical and financial
assistance provided to the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO) to improve its
financial performance and organizational structure yielded fairly good results. However, BEDCO staff
skills still need to be upgraded at the managerial and technical level, and rental rates are still subsidized.
Capacity building for the Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC) was not successful for the
most part because of poor quality in technical assistance provided by the project. Training to commercial
banks. Training provided to Lesotho Bank and Lesotho Agriculture Development Bank in credit analysis



iii
and portfolio management did not yield the expected results. Results are poor for Lesotho Bank based on
the audit conducted for the line of credit. The Lesotho Agriculture Development Bank was closed
recently and is in the process of being liquidated.
Bank Performance
8.   Bank performance was satisfactory in some aspects but deficient in others. The project helped
initiate policy and institutional reforms to improve the investment environment from a longer-term
perspective. Based on lessons leamed from previous operations, the project started to address the long
neglect of the indigenous sector and the need to redress the imbalance between that sector and the large-
scale sector. However, the project did not meet this objective for reasons stated in para. 3. Other
weaknesses in project design included lack of in-built mechanisms to ensure sustainability of project
interventions over time, lack of project performance and impact monitoring system, and lack of a
financial management system. In addition, the project's multiple objectives involving several
implementing agencies proved complex and demanding for the agencies, given their weak implementing
capacity. A number of useful studies were initiated during the implementation phase, including those on
the utilities sector which helped the Bank develop its policy dialogue with the Government. However, in
order to advance its policy agenda, the Bank decided not restructure or close problem components despite
their low probability of success. Weaknesses in execution also included lack of proper oversight of
project accounts, lack of remedial measures to correct project design deficiencies, and inappropriate
policy recommendations. Finally, the Bank's emphasis on disbursement rate to measure project
performance, rather than actual impact, also contributed to poor project performance.
Borrower Performance
9.   The performance of the Government and of the implementing agencies was satisfactory in some
aspects but deficient in others. The Government failed to establish a strong overall coordinating body
resulting in an inadequate day-to-day management of project activities. Of particular concern was the
inadequate management of the project accounts. This multi-faceted project required a high degree of
commitment and' implementation capacity for an effective and coordinated project execution. The
Government was also reluctant to implement fundamental reforms in the telecommunications and utilities
sectors to remove key constraints to job creation. The performance of IPC, BEDCO and BAPS for their
respective component was satisfactory, but performance of the Central Bank and Lesotho Bank was
unsatisfactory.
Project Sustainability
10. Sustainability of the project's achievements differs by objective. The objective to develop the
indigenous sector went largely unmet for reasons discussed in para. 3. As a result, the project did not
contribute to developing a more thorough analytical and policy framework for private sector development
and remains a one-time intervention with no sustainable results. Sustainability of project activities to help
promote foreign investment is uncertain. LNDC is heavily dependent on IDA and other donor funds to
finance the construction of advance factory space, and the success of the program has rested thus far on
direct and indirect subsidies.
Assessment of Outcome
11.  It is difficult to rate this project. The project's contribution to three of its objectives targeting the
development of the indigenous sector is unsatisfactory. These objectives are (i) help investors take
advantage of opportunities created by the LHWP; (ii) support subcontract linkages between the formal
industrial sector and the indigenous sector; and (iii) in the medium-term, diversify investment into higher
value-added and agriculture-based industries. On the other hand, the project generated substantial
employment and export-manufacturing goods, which helped achieve the fourth objective to further attract
foreign investment. Notwithstanding the success in foreign direct investment and job creation, it is



iv
uncertain, however, whether this achievement is sustainable. Interventions were based on government
subsidies, with no in-built mechanisms to ensure that they become progressively self-financing, hence
sustainable. The overall outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory.
Future Operation
12.  The closing of the project represented an opportune time for the Bank to review its traditional role
in the FDI program with the objective to phasing out subsidized funds and mobilizing private capital. The
objective of increasing the level of private ownership is also to introduce a more commercial and profit-
oriented management of the industrial estates to help sustain industrial development. As a first step, a
viability study will be carried out to determine the feasibility of increasing private participation in the
financing of construction and management of the industrial estates. Specifically, the study will assess the
historical and future costs associated with the provision of the industrial estates. The study will also
assess demand for factory shells in the absence of subsidies and the short-, medium-and long-term
prospects for ready-made-garments and other light industry in Lesotho. In conclusion, the study will
report on the conditions needed to achieve commercial viability and recommend a privatization strategy.
Key Lessons Learned
+  The project concept was conditioned on the early precedents of the Bank interventions in the
country's financial and industrial sectors. The Bank's strategy in private sector development has since
evolved, particularly with respect to addressing fundamental reforms to underpin that development
process. Today, reform priorities to support this type of project would focus on private participation
in infrastructure, implementing necessary reforms to address constraints in infrastructure (power,
water, telecommunications, etc.), building effective financial systems to finance the private sector,
and building the capacity of the firms.
*  The project was ambitious in its multiple objectives and implementing agencies. Project design
should be simple and focused to keep implementation manageable for the executing agencies and the
Bank and would have the additional advantage not to place an undue burden on the agencies' weak
capacity. A simple design would allow sufficient flexibility for changes as needed throughout
implementation. Also of concern was the lack of in-built mechanisms to ensure sustainability of
project interventions over time.
+  Effective and timely monitoring and supervision of the project by the Bank and the Govenmnent
would have gone a long way to contributing to the project's success. In addition, the project should
have included performance-monitoring indicators to assess project impact and the continued
eligibility of the executing agencies. The project did not establish an adequate counterpart for overall
project coordination and supervision. Project implementation would have greatly benefited from
strong overall coordination, a monitoring and reporting system, and a financial management system.



PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.   The overall objective of the Industrial and Agro-Industries Development Project (IADP) was to
foster private local andforeign investment in the industrial and agro-industries sectors. The project also
initiated investment policy reforms in the industrial and financial sectors.
2.   The IADP was prepared in 1988 at a time when economic outlook for Lesotho was highly uncertain
in the context of the post-apartheid economic and political future of South Africa, given Lesotho's critical
dependence on that country, particularly for employment. Employment opportunities for migrant workers
in Lesotho were contracting while unemployment rate stood at 35%, and labor force was growing at
20,000 persons a year. At the same time, Lesotho's industrial sector grew at an average of 18% per annum
over a 20-year period accounting for about 11 percent of GDP in 1986. Lesotho's industrial development
was however characterized by an enclave-like formal sector dominated by foreign firms in textiles and
garments, and footwear. The agro-industrial sub-sector was dominated by state-owned enterprises in food
and beverages. Policy and other interventions had not effectively addressed the financing and promotional
needs of the indigenous sector. Against this background, the Government and the Bank jointly developed
an industrial strategy, of which the project supported specific elements. These elements included a policy
reform program, promotion of foreign investment and linkages, development of SMEs, and expanded
access to financial services.
3.   The project was identified as a follow-on to the second IDA Credit to LNDC (Cr. 985-LSO, FY80)
and the IFAD-financed Agricultural Marketing and Credit Project (Cr. 55/63-LE). The second IDA Credit
supported the Government's industrial development strategy, with an explicit employment-generation
goal. One of the project's chief objectives was to aggressively promote Lesotho as an investment area.
The project focused on the large-scale sector, through the availability of financial resources for lending
and investment, and aimed at building LNDC as the Government's leading agency in industrial
development. The IDA Credit financed the construction of advance factory shells and worker training
programs, the combination of which contributed significantly to the success of the FDI program. The
Bank's involvement in the industrial sector in Lesotho started in 1977 with the first IDA Credit to
strengthen LNDC and its subsidiary, the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO).
4.   The IADP was designed on the basis of an industrial sector strategy paper that included key
findings of several studies. The studies were a financial sector review, a diagnostic review of Lesotho's
investment environment, a review of the tax incentive framework, a review of agro-industrial comparative
advantage, and a study on manpower planning and skills development. The original closing date of June
30, 1996 was extended twice, first to June 30, 1997, then to June 30, 1998. The first extension was to
allow disbursement on commitments. The second extension was to wind down project activities. EIB and
KfW provided parallel financing for the construction of factory shells under the industrial infrastructure
component in the amount of US$4.2 million and US$3.5 million equivalent, respectively. A 1994
Privatization and Private Sector Development Project (Cr. 2612) was approved to supplement the project
by focusing on rationalizing the parastatal sector and supporting further measures to strengthen the private
sector.
B. Project Objectives
5.    Statement of Project Objectives. As stated in the staff appraisal report, the overall objective of
the project was to encourage private foreign and indigenous investment in the industrial and agro-
industries sector. The project included four main objectives. The first objective was to support policy
changes to improve the environment for private investment.The second objective was to help investors



2
take advantage of opportunities created by the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP), for which the
Bank financed phase l(a). The third objective was to support subcontract linkages between the formal
industrial sector and SMEs. The fourth objective was to diversify investment into higher value-added and
agriculture-based industries in the medium term.
6.   The project reflected a multi-faceted approach to achieving the above stated objectives with four
interventions and five components:
*    Financial interventions through a line of credit (US$4.7 million) and an equity fund (US$1.9
million) to increase access to loan and equity finance by indigenous enterprises.
*    Industrial infrastructure (US$2.9 million) to ensure the timely availability of electricity,
telecommunications, water, road and other infrastructure to LNDC industrial estates and factory shells.
*    Agro-industrial development (US$5 million) underpinned by a focused reform program to
encourage private investment in the sector. The project financed management contracts to improve the
operations of the large parastatals on a commercial basis for their eventual privatization.
+    Institutional strengthening,through technical assistance and training activities (US$7 million), to
financial and industrial sector institutions to improve their capacity to support and promote industrial
development. Promotion activities were to aim to deepen linkages between foreign and indigenous
enterprises and attract investment in higher value-added industries.
7.   Evaluation of Objectives. The project's first objective, which focused on supporting further
investment in the large-scale sector, was relevant and timely. Based on previous initiatives to attract
industrial foreign investment, the expectations during project preparation of continued strong industrial
demand and employment generation were well founded, and the project was a timely response to the
expected increase in demand for this type of investment. The objective was also to fill a gap in the policy
environment and institutional structure, which had been lacking in the second project contributing to a
quality of investment that was not optimal from a longer-term development perspective. The policy
package was appropriately designed to initiate reforms to improve the investment environment. A flat 15
percent corporate tax would replace the tax holiday by a flat 15 percent corporate tax rate. Exemption on
T-bills would be removed. LNDC majority participation in resource-based projects would be repealed. A
cost-recovery program for LNDC building rental rates would be implemented. Work permits and
industrial licensing would be issued. A minimum wage control mechanism would be established. Long-
term land lease to investors would be provided. The industrial infrastructure component was designed to
address the inadequacy of industrial infrastructure by providing better-serviced sites to private investors.
In retrospect, however, fundamental reforms in the telecommunications and utilities sector to underpin
private sector development were not adequately targeted. The related investment promotion activities
under the institutional strengthening component were appropriately designed, and the project established
an Investment Promotion Center (IPC) as a distinct unit within LNDC.
8.   The second and third objectives were relevant but untimely. Under the second project, the
development and financing needs of the micro and SMEs had gone unattended, the result of lack of
support to BEDCO under that project. The objectives were, however, ambitious in the context of
Lesotho's indigenous private sector and did not take into account its characteristics. As a result, the
credit line and the equity fundwere under-utilized. Therelated institutional structure fulfilled only part of
its mandate.
9.   The second objective was to support linkages between the LHWP and the indigenous sector.
Because of the small size and low capacity of the indigenous private sector and the modus operandi of the
LHWP (large contracts, unsympathetic treaty), developing linkages with the Water Project proved
difficult. Lesotho's indigenous private sector is relatively undeveloped. Overwhelmingly, Lesotho's
industrial entrepreneurship is confined to the small scale/microentreprise sector. The vast majority of
firms employs no more than 1-2 workers and tends to be concentrated in rural areas, with only 12% in



3
Maseru. The weak indigenous sector is the consequence of a small domestic market and Lesotho's
traditional dependence on South Africa for readily available imported goods and employment. Low levels
of entrepreneurship, combined with a lack of an industrial tradition and experience, has limited any type
of business development to those who could not find work either in the mines in South Africa or make an
adequate living farming the land.
10. The third objective was to support linkages between bne large formal sector and the indigenous
sector. To a large extent, the characteristics of Lesotho's indigenous sector were the main constraints to
linkage development with large-scale firms. Local companies did not have the attributes foreign firms
were looking for to outsource locally: scale, managerial capability, or a successful track record. A 1992
USAID-financed Geminil report indicated that the average size of local firms in manufacturing was 1.75
persons, and 1.9 persons in services; 90% of them are servicing the informal economy. Few firms possess
the required characteristics to service foreign firms, either new or already established, in the short to
medium term, regardless of sector. From the demand side, although foreign investment in the clothing and
footwear sectors helped create 8,110 jobs over the life of the project and a certain level of low-value added
services, linkage opportunities did not arise because these sectors do not lend themselves to significant
integration. Most of the raw materials these industries typically use are not available locally and have to
be imported. Although not included originally in the project design, public procurement represented an
additional linkage opportunity, as Lesotho's public sector is the largest single purchaser of goods and
services. However, apart from the limited capacity of the indigenous private sector, there is very limited
public information available on Government spending, levels of imports, etc. Despite the presence of a
Tender Board, many small enterprises appear to have difficulties in accessing public-sector markets, in
particular information on opportunities and purchasing procedures. On the other hand, public-sector
buyers often have limited knowledge of either the presence or capabilities of the local suppliers, with the
result that goods and services are being imported, largely from South Africa.
11.  The fourth objective supported the deepening of the industrial sector through diversification in
higher value-added industries and agro-industries. Low levels of technical skills, the country's political
instability, and the Government's reluctance to implement fundamental reforms in the
telecommunications and utilities sectors to address the poor level of infrastructure hindered achievement
of this objective. Reforms in the agricultural sector, which the project was to address in supporting this
objective, proved difficult to implement in the absence of a political consensus. These proposed reforms
included the elimination of subsidies, price and import controls, government grants and budgetary
transfers, and implementation of a cost-recovery program to ensure the commercial operation of the
parastatals and their registration under the Companies Act with full autonomy.
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
12.  Project implementation experienced difficulty for different reasons depending on the components.
The industrial infrastructure component was more adversely affected than the other components by the
internal and external political and economic environment. The credit line component suffered from
distress in Lesotho Bank and management problems, compounded by bad credit collection policies and
debt repayment culture, while the agro-industrial component experienced substantial delays in
implementation due to lack of Government consensus on the policy reforms. Project design was too
complex in its multiple objectives and did not take into account the weak capacity of the implementing
agencies. This multi-faceted project required a highdegree of implementation capacity for an effective
and coordinated project execution. Bank performance during the implementation phase was weak in
the supervision of the project. There was a lack of adequate oversight of project accounts. Remedial
Growth and Equity through Micro-enterprise Investments and Institutions (Gemini), 1991: Small-Scale Enterprises in Lesotho:
Summary of a Country-Wide Survey, Gemini Technical Report No. 14.



4
measures were not taken to correct project design deficiencies, such as the Participating Agreement for the
line of credit between the Central Bank and Lesotho Bank. Sectoral policy recommendations were
inappropriate and sought to address long-term, problems with short-term solutions (boreholes for water
and preferential tariffs for electricity). Also contributing to poorproject results was the Government's
failure to establish a strong overall coordinating body and its unwillingness to implement the necessary
reforms in the telecommunications, utilities and agro-industry sectors.
D. Achievement of Objectives and Implementation Record
13.  The key success of the project was reforms of investment incentives and investment promotion.
The Investment Promotion Center (IPC) was very successful in attracting foreign investment into the
clothing and footwear industry, and linking this to the provision of industrial infrastructure. Twenty-
eight new projects were implemented over the life of the project as a resultof IPC's successful
promotional program. These projects generated a total of 8,110 jobs, compared to an appraisal estimate
of 3,500 jobs. The investments have also boosted exports, a year-on-year growth of 40% over 1991-1994.
(a) Line of Credit
14.  Implementation of this component experienced substantial delays and problems. By March 1996,
about US$1.1 million had been disbursed (representing a total of 12 sub-projects) against an initial
allocation of US$4.7 million. A total disbursement of US$2.7 million was estimated at the time of ICR
preparation. Slow disbursement was the result of the project's misfocus on the target group. As discussed
above, the number of SMEs in Lesotho is limited. Most of them are established firms with, in all
likelihood, a credit relationship with the commercial banks. This was confirmed by the sample of firm
beneficiaries visited by the ICR mission which all had a previous credit history with Lesotho Bank. On
the other hand, micro-enterprises represent the bulk of the small-scale enterprise sector. The financing
needs of the micro-enterprises are, however, generally not met by credit lines through the banking system.
15.  Final on-lending rates on the loans were on average 22% in nominal terms (prime of 17%+5%), of
which 7% was paid to the central bank by the participating banks for management and currency risk fees.
These rates were in line with prevailing domestic market rates and positive in real terms. Financing from
the credit line required long-term exposure and higher acceptance of risks for the commercial banks in
relation to other business opportunities, which were not adequately compensated for by the spread on the
loans.2 The credit line financed a total of 40 projects. Loan allocation by sector was highly diversified.
Sub-loan average maturity was 5 years; with on average a 6-month grace period. Investments generated
an average of 9 jobs/project. At project closing, a high percentage of loans were problem loans.
16.  Poor performance of the sub-loans was due to poor appraisal of sub-projects by Lesotho Bank;
lack of ex-post supervision; a culture of non-repayment of loans, reinforced by poor loan collection from
the bank and a slow legal enforcement system. Lack of adequate monitoring on the sub-loans by the
Central Bank also contributed to this poor performance. An additional contributing factor to the credit
line's poor performance was lack of active promotion of the Bank's credit program. Lastly, Lesotho Bank
was the sole commercial bank to participate in the line of credit, although staff from the three commercial
banks3 and the Central Bank participated in the training seminars under the institutional capacity-building
2 Because of government policies, on-lending rates on the line of credit were subsidized implicitly in two ways. The prime rate
was below that of South Africa, which represented the true opportunity cost of capital. The low spread did not adequately reflect
high risks associated with the type of borrowers targeted by the program. In addition, to the extent that on-lending rates were
below South Africa rates, they did not cover for the currency risk, and borrowers were insulated from the Rand/US$ exchange-
rate risk which was then borne by the Central Bank.
3 In addition to Lesotho Bank, the banking sector includes Nedbank and Stanbic. Both are branches of South Africa commercial
banks.



5
component. Lesotho Bank indicated that its participation was probably due to its state ownership status
and the program's directed content that sought to promote specific sub-sectors (agribusiness, mining and
quarrying, all manufacturing, construction, transport and commercial services).
17.  Project sponsors' equity contribution. Lesotho Bank indicated that one reason for the low
disbursement rate was the project requirement of the 10-20% equity contribution from the project
sponsors, which was too high for local firms, as was lack of adequate collateral. A more plausible reason
would be lack of bankable projects which met the credit line eligibility criteria and for which project
sponsors were prepared to assume part of the project risk. Although the Participating Agreement between
Lesotho Bank and the Central Bank stipulated an equity contribution from the project sponsor in the order
of 10 percent for existing firm projects and 20 percent for new firm projects, Lesotho Bank applied the 10
percent requirement to all projects.
18.  Commitments under the line of credit became an implementation issue in the last year of project
execution. In August 1997, to respect an agreed deadline established in the Project's wind-down action
plan, the Central Bank confirmed as commitments to the Bank 47 projects submitted by Lesotho Bank for
refinancing under the line of credit. Disbursement would have fully utilized the remaining balance of the
credit line. Subsequently, the Central Bank informed the Bank about Lesotho Bank's liquidity problems.
The Borrower then halted any fuither disbursement applications to protect the Bank's and the Borrower's
interest. A conservator was appointed to secure Lesotho Bank for state dis-investment. An independent
audit of the line of credit was carried out as part of the overall audit of Lesotho Bank, the first in years,
although annual audits of the line of credit was a project requirement. The audit confirmed that the sub-
loans submitted for financing, either new or already approved, did not meet eligibility criteria, and that
neither the Central Bank or Lesotho Bank had managed the line of credit in accordance with the
Participating Agreement. Lesotho Bank's non-compliance and poor overall performance led to the
cancellation of earmarked funds. Canceled funds could not therefore be used for other project activities
for which there was a high demand for funding, such as the industrial infrastructure component.
(b) Equity Fund
19.  As with the credit line, the equity fund also experienced slow disbursement and did not start
disbursing until 1995. Of the US$1.9 million initial allocation, an estimated US$0.9 million were
disbursed to provide equity to six companies to finance 50% of their venture capital investment. One
factor was the project sponsors' inability to raise their own 50% equity contribution reflecting a lack of
bankable projects. Another factor was the absence of pre-conditions for successful linkages with the
LHWP and the large-scale firms, which the fund was to promote, for reasons discussed above. The last
factor was related to LNDC's internal policy, which gave lower priority to implement the equity
component of the project. Ex-ante rate of return on the more mature investments was on average 20
percent. Divestiture options included either a buy-back within seven years or public offering of
Government shares. At project closing, none of the companies was performing well, except one newly
established company. In the event that the firms' performance does not improve over time, neither option
is likely to materialize as poor performance reduces their eamings and listing potential, as well as
LNDC' s potential capital gains. The firms' poor performance also implies that no dividends went back to
the Fund so that the objective of creating a liquidity and resource mobilization mechanism for LNDC (as a
way of diversifying its capital base) was not achieved. Likewise, the divestiture program whereby LNDC
was to sell some of its own and the Government's shareholdings (as a way of injecting liquidity into the
Corporation, diversifying its capital base, and helping establish a capital market) has not started yet.
20   The idea of creating an equity fund for venture start-up capital as a substitute to debt financing and
as a way to develop a capital market is generally a good one. The fund's performance was, however,
highly contingent on strong expertise in fund management, which LNDC did not possess, and for which



6
LNDC did not receive ongoing technical assistance under the project. The very idea of having a
parastatal as fund manager was, however, in itself questionable. Ideally, equity funds for venture capital
investments should be privately managed. Also, the regulatory framework to sustain the development of a
capital market was lacking. Finally, the project did not make an adequate assessment of the potential
demand for equity finance.
(c) Agro-industrial Development
21.  This component experienced substantial implementation delays because of lack of consensus
among the Ministries (Planning, Trade and Industry, and Agriculture) on the policy reforms: price
controls, subsidies, and management autonomy. Disbursement under this component was estimated at
US$1.8 million, against an initial allocation of US$5 million. Three years into project execution, the
component was essentially defunct, and the Government together with the Bank agreed to fold it into the
larger privatization program. The Ministries of Agriculture and of Trade and Industry, however, decided
to revive the component to support the rehabilitation of the Maluti Highlands Abattoir, and launched bids
for a management contract. Because of lengthy procurement procedures from the Ministry of Agriculture
to Trade and Industry to the Bank, and delays in the Govenunent's agreement to the Bank's disbursement
condition of non-interference, the expert team was not in place until 1996. In spite of substantial
improvement under the management contractors, the Abattoir currently operates at a loss. It is slated for
privatization within two years under the proposed Privatization Project. But unless there is sufficient
evidence of Government's commitment to implementing the necessary deregulation and liberalization
reforms to support the privatization process, privatization may not prove sustainable in the medium term.
(d) Industrial Infrastructure
22.  Of all the components, this component was the most satisfactorily implemented in terms of job
creation (para. 13). The component was to finance the equipment and civil works to be used for
infrastructure to upgrade and extend the Maseru West industrial estate and the Thetsane estate. Project
funds were used as planned. In addition, in 1995, parallel donor financing by KfW and EIB proved
insufficient to meet rising demand for factory space. The Bank approved the Government's request to
make up for the shortfall in view of LNDC's improved rent collection performance and rent increases to
bring them closer to market-rental rates. Total disbursement was estimated at US$4.5 million against an
initial allocation of US$2.9 million.
23.  While the project recognized the need to provide adequate infrastructure to private investors,
fundamental reforms in the telecommunications and utilities sectors were not squarely addressed until
1994 and appropriate measures not taken until the last year of the project. The project was to establish an
Investment Promotion Committee. The Committee was to play a key role in the planning of provision of
services to industrial estates and mediate disputes between LNDC, the Lesotho Telecommunications
Corporation and the Lesotho Electricity Corporation over infrastructure construction and equipment costs
and scheduling. The Committee, to be chaired by the Ministry of Trade and Industry, was however not
established. Throughout implementation the high cost and poor quality of water, electricity and
telecommunications services continued to worsen. Problems in the sector persisted in spite of the
investors' complaints and substantial consultations by numerous Bank supervision missions to promote
reforms with the Government. Poor level of infrastructure was a major disincentive to potential investors,
especially from East Asia. Although the Bank undertook a number of studies on the utility sector reforms
under this project and the parallel privatization operation, progress in achieving significant improvement
in providing utility services to the investors was hindered by the Govemment's indifference and
unresponsiveness to the need to reform the sector. These difficulties were further compounded by the
frequent turnover of senior management in LNDC's Operations Division charged with solving problems



7
raised by investors. Addressing the inefficiency of utilities was included in the Privatization Project (Cr.
2612) but was later dropped from the privatization list at the Government's request.
24.  As part of the several studies to support reforms/privatization of the utilities sector, a study on the
Lesotho Electricity Corporation's tariffs recommended an increase to service the short-term, high-interest
commercial loans on the Muela Dam. The recommended increase would have however set the tariffs at
prohibitive levels without addressing the fundamental reforms needed. Likewise, recommended
incremental increases to improve the commercial viability of the Water and Sewerage Authority would
have proved too high for private investors, without necessarily providing better services in water
availability. To address both problems, the Government shelved the privatization issue and suggested
instead two stop-gap proposals: preferential tariffs to investors for electricity and boreholes for water, to
which the Bank first agreed but later reversed its position. The necessary reforms are now under
discussion as part of a companion Privatization and Regulatory Reform Project scheduled for FY2000.
The Bank is also providing support to the Government for a financial workout.
(e) Policy Reforms
25. Most of the investment policy reforms were implemented satisfactorily. The costly tax holiday
was replaced by a general 15 percent corporate tax rate. This was done in 1991 and clarified in the 1993
Income Tax Act. Tax exemption on T-Bills was removed in 1992. The policy of requiring LNDC's
majority participation in resource-based projects was repealed in 1991. LNDC Board subsequently
decided that it would not take in excess of 50 percent of equity in any project, and only in circumstances
where it was necessary to complete a venture, and with a clear exit strategy. LNDC management adopted
a policy of cost-recovery for building rental rates. With respect to issuance of work permits and industrial
licensing, there was a cycle of partial progress followed by backsliding throughout the project. Lesotho's
wage inflation was not a major problem during the project because of the constant depreciation of the
Rand. Nevertheless, the minimum wage process remains unsatisfactory despite attempts in 1995/96 to
improve it. Increases in minimum wages did not follow a particular structure, and this made planning of
business operations difficult for private investors. A more competitiveness-sensitive mechanism needs to
be established. Land availability to private investors through the MTI has not yet materialized.
(e) Institutional Capacity Development
26.  Implementation of the component was satisfactory for the IPC, BAPS and to some extent BEDCO,
but unsatisfactory for LNDC and Lesotho Bank. An estimated US$8.7 million were disbursed under this
component compared to an initial allocation of US$7 million.
27.  Promotion of Industrial Investment. The IPC was established by the project as a semi-
autonomous division within LNDC to serve as a one-stop shop to potential foreign investors in Lesotho.
Of all IPC's key tasks, the highest priority was given to new job-generating investments by attracting
export-oriented manufacturing companies, which IPC achieved with a high degree of success. As part of
the twinning arrangement under the project, a long-term external advisor was appointed to IPC to assist in
establishing the center and train local staff in investment promotion techniques and management.
Training for local staff yielded good results. IPC can now carry out the activities satisfactorily.
28. The Business Advisory and Promotion Services agency (BAPS) was created to address a lack of
focal point for SME and micro-enterprise development in Lesotho. At the time of project initiation, the
Ministry's unit for SME development was weak and lacked adequate resources. BEDCO was in financial
distress. BAPS was to coordinate information and advisory services for indigenous businesses, initiate
new services, and actively support the development of new markets through contractual linkages and
exports. As part of the twinning arrangement, the project financed a long-term external advisor. Over the



8
life of the project, BAPS has assisted 1,250 entrepreneurs, from providing advice and counseling to
developing business plans. BAPS also served as an information center on the needs and development
possibilities of the local private sector. The project financed the construction of three business information
centers in Maseru, Leribe and Quthing where BEDCO-operated industrial estates are located. However, to
collect information on available services BAPS had to rely on weak existing institutions, and BAPS's role
in linkage development went unfulfilled for reasons discussed earlier. In addition, BAPS did not set up a
tracer system or a monitoring & evaluation system. It did not undertake a beneficiary assessment to
measure results of its activities. The impact of BAPS's services cannot therefore be fully analyzed. Based
on a sample of beneficiaries interviewed as part of the ICR mission, BAPS advisory services were by far
its most successful function. At the end of the project, as part of the Government's decision to rationalize
SME support institutions, BAPS was integrated as a unit into BEDCO but without the technical staff who
left BAPS for better-paid jobs in the private sector.
29.  Support to Financial Institutions. The project provided technical and financial assistance to
BEDCO. Two external advisors were hired for a total of four years, one financial controller and one to
restructure BEDCO. The external support provided to BEDCO to improve its financial performance was
instrumental in improving the Corporation from an almost bankrupt organization to one that is now fairly
well managed and on a stronger financial footing. Over four years, BEDCO's income increased by 67%,
rental income from the industrial estates-BEDCO's major source of income--grew by 126%, budgets are
now prepared regularly, and unqualified audited accounts are produced on time. However, BEDCO's
rental rates are still subsidized. While the project succeeded in establishing an improved organizational
structure, BEDCO still needs to be upgraded, both at the managerial and technical level, with staff of
adequate background. Frequent changes in staff at management level, a dearth of national skilled
manpower, and better employment opportunities in the private sector, particularly in South Africa, make
this task all the more difficult. In addition to staff training, the project also financed some equipment
(vehicles and computers) and the related computer training. The entrepreneurial training program to small
entrepreneurs was not very successful. High staff turnover caused BEDCO management to continuously
retrain and upgrade skills of the staff, introduce new courses better tailored to the needs of its clients, and
recruit better qualified entrepreneurial trainers.
30.  LNDC's capacity in management accounting and information systems, and credit and equity
portfolio appraisal and management did not improve because of poor quality in technical assistance
provided by the project. Similarly, LNDC's skills in industrial estates management did not improve also
because of weak technical assistance, except in the areas of rent increases and collection performance.
LNDC would have benefited from ongoing technical assistance in mutual fund management.
31.  Training to Commercial Banks. The project provided training in project appraisal and
management, and project rehabilitation/monitoring and bank management. A total of 44 officers from the
three commercial banks were trained over a six-month period. At Lesotho Bank, 24 officers attended the
training seminars; seven have resigned to date, while 15 are still working in the bank, although not
necessarily in the positions for which they received training. Results of the training on the two foreign-
owned banks cannot be assessed because they did not participate in the line of credit. The impact of the
project on these banks cannot therefore be evaluated. Results for Lesotho Bank are poor based on the
audit report. For instance, Lesotho Bankapplied on an ad-hoc basis basic credit analysis techniques in
project appraisal (such as internal rate of return and financial ratios). Although the project did not provide
a clear view on what the strengthening of the Lesotho Agriculture Development Bank intended to
achieve, and more broadly on its future, LADB staff received training in portfolio management, audits,
and information systems. Regardless of the amount and quality of external assistance, the bank was
technically insolvent since the mid-1980s, and its performance continued to deteriorate substantially over
the years. LADB was closed in September 1998 and is in the process of being liquidated.



9
32.  Environmental Issues. Although the project did not include any environmental issues at appraisal,
the provision of modem effluent disposal facilities at the Thetsane industrial estate was discussed during
the mid-term review. The Government requested that the facilities be financed by the project to meet new
standards set up in new environmental regulations and support new water-using industries
(washing/dyeing) which would not locate in Lesotho unless there were adequate facilities and they could
estimate future costs. The project did not provide for the construction of the facilities because of frilly
committed funds at the time.
E. Project Sustainability .
33.  Sustainability of the project's achievements differs by objective. With respect to thepromotion of
the indigenous sector, the project did not effectively help increase SMEs' access to term funds. The
project did not help increase the indigenous sector's share in the industrial sector through linkages with
the formal sector. Nor did the project succeed in promoting successful domestic resource mobilization for
term lending from the banking sector or equity financing through the establishment of a capital market.
The project's sustainability for this objective is therefore unlikely.
34.  The project's sustainability in promoting foreign investment is uncertain. The Govemment
revenue base is limited, which puts pressure for a shift from public to private delivery of services. LNDC
is heavily dependent on IDA and other donor funds, and the success of the program has rested thus far on
direct and indirect subsidies. Factory shell construction continued so long as donor funds provided the
necessary financing. When the project closed, LNDC was left with a demand for advance factory space
for which it had to find ways to bridge the financing gap. The situation in which LNDC found itself was
the result of the lack of a built-in mechanism in the project to ensure self-sufficiency through greater
private participation over time. South Africa is now democratically governed, and thus the worldwide
economic sanctions previously imposed on the former regime and which represented one of the main
incentives for FDI in Lesotho has disappeared. The new WTO agreement will increase pressure on
Lesotho to enhance its own competitiveness rather than exploiting preferential Lome-type arrangements.
Neighboring countries are now offering more competitive investment incentives. Lastly, Lesotho needs to
ensure political stability in order to attract and retain FDI.
35.  The investment climate in Lesotho needs further study and improvements. While labor costs and
the ability of the labor force to achieve high levels of productivity still represent Lesotho's key selling
points with investors, labor costs are nonetheless considerably above emerging competitors, such as
Mozambique. Industrial training. The relative non-competitiveness of Lesotho's labor costs by world or
regional standards means that industrial workers in Lesotho must continually increase their productivity to
prosper and grow. The country's vocational training system is not responsive to the needs of the private
sector. Most formal education is generally geared to prepare students for employment in the labor market
and includes few technical courses with a business or an entrepreneurial orientation as an element in the
courses. Foreign firms setting business in Lesotho must recruit mainly unskilled workers and train them
to experienced worker standard. And once the labor force acquires skills, it is likely to move across to
South Africa in search of more attractive opportunities.
36.  Institutional development was successful forIPC, and for BEDCO in some areas. The project's
sustainability in building the capacity of Lesotho Bank to provide term lending to SMEs and LNDC in
property management is unlikely. Funding of IPC and BAPS activities and operating costs became an
issue with the closing of the project when project funds were no longer available to support their operating
costs. Since then, IPC has been funded by LNDC, although LNDC's activities do not generate enough
income to adequately support those of IPC. Adequate funding for IPC is however central to sustaining its
promotional activities and ensuring its independence in order to preserve its commercial orientation. The
agency's dependency on external funds was the result of lack of in-built self-financing mechanism in



10
project design to achieve sustainability gradual]Ly. Because of IPC's key role in the promotion of industrial
development at the central level, LNDC has recommended that IPC be housed within a related Ministry.
As BEDCO's income base is still relatively small, the agency will continue to rely on government funding
and subsidies for still some time.
F. Assessment of Outcome
37.  It is difficult to rate this project. The project's contribution to three of its objectives targeting the
development of the indigenous sector is unsatisfactory. These objectives are (i) help investors take
advantage of opportunities created by the LHWP; (ii) support subcontract linkages between the fonnal
industrial sector and SMEs; and (iii) in the medium-term, diversify investment into higher value-added
and agriculture-based industries. On the other hand, the project was instrumental in generating substantial
employment and promoting export-manufacturing goods, which helped achieve the fourth objective to
further attract foreign investment. Notwithstanding the success in foreign direct investment and job
creation, it is uncertain, however, whether this achievement is sustainable. Interventions were based on
government subsidies, with no in-built mechanisms to ensure that they become progressively self-
financing, hence sustainable. The overall outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory.
G. Bank Performance
38.   The Bank's performance in project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory in some
aspects and deficient in others. The Bank played a critical role in helping the Government prepare a
project with a key focus on policy and institutional reforms to improve the investment environment.
Project preparation also incorporated lessons learned from previous operations, particularly the long
neglect of the indigenous sector and the need to redress the imbalance between the large-scale formal
sector and the informal sector. However, the objective to develop the indigenous sector went largely
unmet because of inadequate assessment of that sector. As a result, the project did not contribute to
developing a more thorough analytical and policy framework for private sector development and remains
a one-time intervention with no sustainable results. Similarly, the project's objective to create
linkages between the large-scale sector and local entrepreneurs as a way to develop the indigenous sector
was not supported by a pre-feasibility study. The analysis undertaken at the end of the project showed that
the shortfalls in meeting this objective were related to the undeveloped indigenous sector and shortage of
technical skills. The project was too complex in its multiple objectives and implementing agencies. The
project complexity in design was based on iderntified needs, the small size of the country, and the fact that
this project was to be the only Bank intervention in private sector development for the early 1990s. The
decentralization of project management was intended to counteract any potential deficiency at the overall
coordination level during execution. While the project rightly foresaw the difficulty in implementing a
multiple-objective project involving several executing agencies, the decentralized arrangement,
compounded by the lack of an effective overall coordination of activities, reinforced the disconnect
between the agencies and their related project activities. Ultimately, the disconnect adversely affected the
design of a comprehensive strategy for private sector development. Finally, project design did not lay the
grounds to support the sustainability of project interventions and did not include a project performance
and impact monitoring system. Project design also failed to establish a financial management system.
39.  The Bank's performance during the implementation phase was satisfactory in some aspects and
deficient in others. The project was instrumental in initiating a number of useful studies, including on the
utility reforms, and a strategy for future investment promotion. These studies raised awareness within the
utility environment and helped the Bank develop its policy dialogue with the Govermnent. Weaknesses in
execution included lack of properfinancial oversight of the project. Consolidated project accounts were
not maintained over six out of the seven years of the project life. The closing date was extended a second
time only to wind down the project based on an action plan. The action plan was to define the level of



11
outstanding commitments on the undisbursed Credit balance, set commitment deadlines, and complete
disbursements related to existing commitments under each component. Another deficiency was the
Bank's inadequate supervision of project activities. Despite emerging signals in Lesotho Bank' s financial
performance, the Bank did not take appropriate measures with respect to commitments under the credit
line through Lesotho Bank. Also, much attention was given to the increasingly successful FDI program
without a complementary sustained effort to restructure the less successful indigenous sector components.
40.  The mid-term review of the project was delayed by two years and was carried out in 1995 in
conjunction with the Bank's overall assessment of the country's policies and strategies in the industrial
sector. Recommended policy options were subsequently included in the 1996 CAS and the Government's
Strategic Economic Options Study, which formed the basis for the Bank's policy dialogue. Some
measures of the action plan in the export-oriented light-manufacturing sector were initiated. Sales of
factory shells to the foreign firns were started to root them more deeply in the local economy. The
training grant fund from the previous operation was revived. The fund was not continued under this
project as shortage of technical skills was to be addressed under a comprehensive vocational training
program. The Bank also reviewed progress of each project component. With respect to the line of credit,
more emphasis was placed on remedial measures to accelerate the disbursement rate than on the quality
and performance of the sub-loans, and project impact. For instance, the Bank recommended to Lesotho
Bank to amend its collateral requirement of immovable property at a time when the high default rate on
the sub-loans had been identified as a problem closely related to Lesotho Bank's lack of monitoring of the
sub-loans. The Bank reviewed the possibility of setting up a micro credit facility but did not pursue the
idea because of an existing UNDCP micro-finance program with poor performance. To address the issue
of limited success of the linkages program, the Bank proposed to establish an executing agency between
the Government, Lesotho Highlands Development Authority and the small contractors modeled on the
G(ambia Agetip organization. The idea never materialized, however, because of Govenment's reluctance.
41.  Despite the low probability of success of the problem components, during the mid-term review the
Bank decided not to restructure the project and close these components in order to advance its policy
agenda on recommended strategies and reforms in the sector. A follow-up mission took place in 1996 to
assess a possible restructure/extension. The line of credit was neither restructured nor closed because
Lesotho Bank presented an additional request for refinancing, which the Bank approved. Disbursements
on this request did not materialize, however, for reasons discussed under the line of credit component
(para. 18). Consideration for restructuring was given to the equity fund but recommendations were not put
in effect. The project was extended by one year to allow completion of ongoing commitments and
construction of factory space for which the Bank approved an informal re-allocation of funds. Although
the Bank's approval represented an amendment to the original activities to be financed under the
infrastructure component, this amendment was not officially reflected in a revised Credit Agreement.
H. Borrower Performance
42.  The performance of the Govemment and the implementing agencies was satisfactory in some
aspects and deficient in others. Project management. The performance of MTI was deficient. Frequent
changes in the Principal Secretary in the MTI resulted in poor project management and lack of
coordination in policy issues. The MTI did not establish an adequate counterpart responsible for overall
project coordination and management. The MTI's perfornance was deficient in the day-to-day
management of project activities, most notably the lack of adequate management of the project accounts.
The project accountant was appointed only in 1996. Implementing agencies. The performance of IPC,
BEDCO, and BAPS was satisfactory, and their compliance with the implementation covenants was also
satisfactory. The performance of the Central Bank and Lesotho Bank was unsatisfactory, and their
compliance with the financial and implementation covenants was also unsatisfactory. Audits.
Compliance with project audit and reporting requirements was deficient in terms of timely submission.



* 12
No annual audit was done on the line of credit. Neither the Government nor the implementing agencies
dealt with qualified audit reports.
I. Future Operation
43.  The closing of the project represented an opportune time for the Bank to review its traditional role
in the FDI program with the objective to phasing out subsidized funds and mobilizing private capital. The
objective of increasing the level of private ownership is also to introduce a more commercial and profit-
oriented management of the industrial estates. As a first step, a viability study will be carried out to
determine the feasibility of increasing private participation in the financing of construction and
management of the industrial estates to help sustain industrial development. The analysis will assess the
program's historical costs. It will also assess pro-forma estimates of capital costs for expansion of
industrial estates and potential demand for factory shells in the absence of subsidies. Short-, medium- and
long-term prospects for ready-made-garments and other light industry in Lesotho will be evaluated. The
analysis will conclude with an assessment of the conditions needed to achieve commercial viability and
recommend a privatization strategy.
J. KCey Lessons Learned
*  The project concept was conditioned on the early precedents of the Bank interventions in the
country's financial and industrial sectors. The Bank's strategy in private sector development has since
evolved, particularly with respect to addressing fundamental reforms to underpin that development
process. Today, reform priorities to support this type of project would focus on private participation
.n infrastructure, implementing necessary reforms to address constraints in infrastructure (power,
water, telecommunications, etc.), building effective financial systems to finance the private sector, and
-building the capacity of the firms.
*  The project was ambitious in its multiple objectives and implementing agencies. Project design
should be simple and focused to keep implementation manageable for the executing agencies and the
Bank and would have the additional advantage of not placing an undue burden on the agencies'
already weak capacity. A simple design would allow sufficient flexibility for changes as needed
throughout implementation.
*  Effective and timely monitoring and supervision of the project by the Bank and the Goverunent
would have gone a long way to contributing to the project's success. In addition, the project should
have included performance-monitoring indicators to assess project impact and the continued
eligibility of the executing agencies.
*  The project did not establish an adequate counterpart for overall project coordination and supervision.
Project 'nplementation would have greatly benefited from strong overall coordination, a monitoring
and reporting system, and a financial management system.



13
Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators, 1989-1997 (in %)
---------------- --------------------------------------------Actual ------------------------
1989     1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     1995      1996      1997
Real GDP Growth Rate                      12.7      4.0      0.7      3.5        4.0    12.9      9.1      12.7       6.6
Inflation (end-period)                    14.7     11.6    17.7      17.2       13.1     8.2      9.3       8.5       7.7
Private Investment/GDP /1                            -      52.4     39.3       36.8   43.6      30.2      31.7      32.1
Public Investment/GDP                       -        -      20.0      19.1      17.4   16.0      13.0      16.0      15.2
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP               -47.0    -30.0   -49.0    -45.0    -33.0   -15.0    -17.0         -2.0      -9.0
Gross National Savings/GDP                 9.0     12.0    10.0      16.0       21.0   55.0      60.0      73.0      50.0
Public Sector Surplus(Deficit)/GDP 12    -19.0    -14.0   -10.0      -5.0       -0.3    0.6       -0.8      -0.6     -2.6
Real Effective Exch. Rate/3                0.1    -1.9       6.8       8.2      -1.1    -4.4      -0.5      -8.5     -7.5
Exports (GNFS)/GDP                         16.0    14.0      15.0     20.0      22.0    2.0      21.0       25.0    33.0
Imports (GNFS)/GDP                        124.0   115.0    145.0    144.0    131.0   117.0    122.0    117.0    128.0
CurrentAccount/GDP/4                      -69.0   -58.0    -60.0    -63.0      -53.0  -28.0    -33.0    -32.0    -31.0
Total Debt Service/GDP /5                  4.4      3.7      4.4       5.3       4.6    4.3        4.6       4.1      6.2
/1= including the Lesotho Highland Water Project; /2 = excluding grants; /3 percent change; (-)  devaluation;
/4 = after grants; /5 = total debt service due before debt relief, including IMF.
Source: MT.
Table 2: Growth of Manufactured Exports in Lesotho, 1985-94
(in millions of current US$)
Year           Total           Manufactured            Clothing and          Electronics and
Exports             Exports             Miscellaneous            Equipment
1985                                  8.2                   5.6                    0.4
1986                                12.2                    7.9                    0.8
1987              -                 25.8                   21.8                    1.0
1988             64                 40.3                   35.6                    0.6
1989             66                 40.2                    34.5                   0.5
1990             60                 43.2                    35.0                   0.6
1991             67                 53.3                   46.7                    1.9
1992            109                 93.6                   77.3                    12.3
1993            134                 118.3                  106.3                   7.8
1994            144                 126.4                  103.2                   19.7
Source: Computed from data on composition of exports from the Central Bank of Lesotho, Annual Report (Maseru, various years), for
years through 1995, and from export and import series in US$ in Intemational Monetary Fund, International Financial Statistics
(Washington, D.C., 1996).
Table 3: Lesotho Exports (US$ Million)
1992/93        1993/94         1994/95         1995/96      1996/97 (est)
112.1           138.6          149.5           155.2          188.9
ExRate (M/$)
3.175           3.479         3.5905          3.9806          4.4224
Source: The Central Bank of Lesotho.



14
PART 2: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial       Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                                               4
Sectoral Policies                             _            4
Financial Objectives                                                       4
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives                         4
Poverty Reduction                           4
Gender Issues                                                                               4
Other Social Objectives                                    4
Environmental Objectives                                                   4
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development                                  4_
Other (specify)                                                                              4
B. Project Sustainability                   Likely                Unlikely             Uncertain
:___ _ __  4   _
C. Bank Performance                   Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                                        4
Preparation Assistance              ___L___.4
Appraisal                                                                                  4
Supervision                                                                                4
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                                        _                    
Implementation                       _                      _       _.                     4
Covenant Compliance                                                                        i
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome              Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
Table 2: Related Bank Programs and Credits
Credits                                    Purpose                      Year     Status
Preceding Operations
* Lesotho National Dev. Corp. (LNDC) and  + Provide FE to LNDC for its development       1977   Completed
Basotho Enterprises Dev. Corp. (BEDCO)     firnance operations, and BEDCO for its
smrall-scale enterprise loans
* Second Lesotho National Dev. Corp. (LNDC)   * Provide FE to LNDC for its development   1980   Completed
finance operations and technical
assistance for capacity building
Following Operations
* Privatization and Private Sector Dev. Project    * Expand private sector involvement in economy,    1994    Ongoing
and develop capital market
instruments to support privatization
* Lesotho Highlands Water Project (Phase IA)   * Transforn Lesotho's principal natural   1991    Ongoing
resource--water-into export revenues,
and reduce the country's dependence on
iniported energy.
* Lesotho Highlands Water Project (Phase IB)   * Follow-up of Phase IA, with emphasis    1998    Ongoing
on the environment and local
development spin-offs.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Planned               Actual
Final EPS                                            -                  2/9/90
Preparation
Preappraisal                                         -                 11/22/89
Appraisal                                            -                  3/15/90
Negotiations                                         -                  9/26190
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)        n.a.                 n.a.
Board Presentation                                                     12/18/90
Signing                                                                02/04/91
Effectiveness                                        -                  9/12/91
Mid-term Review                                     1993                3/18/95
Project Completion                                6/30/96              12/31/96
Credit Closing                                    6/30/96               6/30/98
Table 4: IDA Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ million)
FY91   FY92   FY93  EFY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   Total
Appraisal Estiimte   1.5    3.0    7.0   11.0   16.0   21.0                               21.0
Actual (Estimates)     -     1.7    5.1    6.3    7.6   10.1   14.7   19.2   19.3   19.3
Actual as a % of     0%    57%    73%    57%    48%    48%           - _    _             92%
Estimated
Date of Final     December 18, 1998.
Disbursement
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
| 1. Key Implementation Indicators in SARIPR    Appraisal Estimates   Actual Estimates
1. Employment generation                       3,500              8,110
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(see above table)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                          Status
1. Two beneficiary assessments on investment environment and quality of  Only one completed
services offered by BAPS and IPC.
2. Review of LNDC Training Grants Scheme and recommendations on             Completed
future support for industry training.
3. Study/Recommendations on Lesotho's incentives in relation to regional    Completed
competitors.
4. Study/Recommendations on future LNDC/IPC investment promotion            Completed
with particular emphasis on sectors, linkages and tourism.



16
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimates         Actual Estimates
Items                         (US$ million)               (US$ million)
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign       Total
costs   costs    costs   costs    costs      costs
1. Credit Line                              2.4      4.7      7.1    0.9       3.4*       4.3
2. Equity Financing                         0.6       1.9     2.5    0.9         0.9      1.8
3. Industrial Infrastructure                0.7       2.9     3.6    0.8         4.5      5.3
4. Agro-industries Component                  -       5.1     5.1       -        1.8      1.8
5. Institutional Strengthening and Studies  1.1       5.9     7.0    0.5         8.2      8.7
TOTAL                                       4.8      20.5    25.3    3.1        18.8     21.9
*Includes US$0.7 million to be refunded by the Government.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimates            Actual Estimates
Source                      (lS$ million)                 (-US$ million)
Local    Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign    Total
costs     costs     costs    costs    costs      costs
IDA                              0.5       20.5      21.0      0.5      18.8      19.3
-Project sponsors                1.4         -         1.4     1.2       -         1.2
PFIs                             1.5         -         1.5     0.5                 0.5
LNDC                             1.1         -         1.1     0.9                 0.9
Government                       0.3         -         0.3      *-                 -
TOTAL                  4.8       20.5      25.3      3.1     18.8       21.9
*Not available at the time of ICR preparation.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Indicator                     Appraisal Estimate             Latest Estimate
1. Line of Credit: ERR                          none                      not available
FRR                        cost of capital               not available
2. Equity Fund:  ERR                             20%                     20% (ex-ante)
3. Industrial Infrastructure                    none                      not available



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
f                        1 Original      Revised
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillnent                                          Description of Covenant
Section      Type       Status      Date         Date
Credit Agreement
Central Bank of Lesotho on-lend funds to participating banks at a rate initially set at the average cost of term deposit
3.04         2          NC       06/30/91        -        funds. The on-lending rate would be periodically reviewed and adjusted to ensure that it does not represent a
disincentive to banks' term deposits.
3.09         10         CD       3/31/93      3/18/95    Participation in ajoint Government/IDA mid-term review by March 31, 1993, and implementation of actions agreed
upon during the review.
Agreements with each agro-parastatal would provide for (a) implementation of the policy reforms affecting their
3.07         10         NC          -                    performance; (b) the parastatal would operate on a commercial basis with full management autonomy over pricing, cost,
expenditure control.
3.08         5          NC                                The agro-industries task force (PS Planning, Trade, and Ag.) would have coordination and management responsibility
for policy reform program and project assistance to parastatals.
(a) by March 1992, the LADB Strategic Corporation Plan of Action would be finalized and sent to IDA for review; (b)
3.04         10         NC        3/1/92                  by June 1992, it would be discussed with IDA and agreement would be reached on key steps to be undertaken to put
LADB on a viable basis.
3.05         5          C        10/31/92                 BEDCO will (a) carry out a re-organization to focus on provision of industrial estate and workshop facilities and on
project assistance to SMEs; and (b) implement a cost-recovery rental policy.
3.05         10       ongoing                             BEDCO would screen SMEs admitted to industrial estates to ensure their full-time commitment to their enterprise and
the viability of their business.
3.08         5          NC                                Lesotho Bank's Training Department will (a) by March 31 of each proj ect year, prepare and submit to IDA a training
plan for training in bank management.
3.08         5          C         1/6/92                  Lesotho Bank's Training Department will provide management training on behalf of the PBIs and other financial
institutions.
3.08         5          C         1/6/92                  Lesotho Bank's Training Department will make application to IDA on behalf of the commercial banks for training.
6.01         2         NC                                An executed subsidiary loan agreement between GOL and the central bank, and between GOL and LNDC
6.01         2          C        7/18/91                  An executed PBI agreement between the central bank and at least one commercial bank.
Schedule I
para.3(b) ii    10         NC                                For the credit line component: to LADB, (a) implementation of its TA program
(b) Implementation of a viable plan for its recapitalization; put in place systems adequate to manage its loan portfolio;
para.3(b) ii    2          NC                                implementation of key aspects identified in its Strategic Corporate Plan.
For the credit line component to LNDC: (a) adjusting interest rate to sub-borrowers to at least the prime rate of interest
para.3(b) i     2         NC                                for all credit lines operated, orto a level which would allow the Corporation to recover the costs of its lending operations
(b) Preparation of documentation by December 31, 1991, for a resource mobilization mechanism agreed with IDA.
para. 3(d)      2         NC                                For the agro-industries component: (i) prior implementation of policy measures affecting the performance of that
.___ ____  ___company;
(ii) the agro-industrial parastatal having entered into a subsidiary agreement with the Government.
para. 3(d)      2         NC
para. 3(e)      2         NC                                Disbursements from the Small Business Development Fund will be subject to Government arrangements, approved by
IDA, for administration ofthe Fund.
For industrial infrastructure component: GOL will agree with IDA on (a) a formula for sharing of the costs of main
para.3(f)      2          NC                                distribution lines; (b) construction standards and procurement arrangements, to be applied to utility network.
para. 3(b) i    2          C                                 Submission to IDA of an acceptable action plan to increase income, reduce costs, and improve loan collection
performance on loan operations to ensure viable operation.



Side Letter
lT         f              T               For industrial infrastructure component: (i) replacement of tax holiday with a 15% rate of tax; (ii) repeal of policy
10 l    C                                       requiring a majority LNDC shareholding in resource-based foreign enterprises; and (iii) removal of the tax exemption on
I I        I                              T-Bills.
(i) C      6/30/91                    (i) streamline industrial licensing and work pennitting process for key management staff and technical experts of foreign
10      (ii) NC                                 companies; (ii) set minimum wage to take account of Lesotho's competitive position; and (iii) set up an Investment
(iii) NC                                Promotion Committee to coordinate the provision of services to the estates.
10        NC             -                      (i) allocation of industrial land for private development.
For agro-industries component: (a) elimination of existing subsidies, price, and import controls, government grants and
budgetary transfers; implementation of a policy of full cost-recovery on operations of agro-parastatals; (b) introduce
2         NC                                    measures to put operations on a commercial basis; (c) ensure private sector participation in each registered component by
.                                         April 1, 1993.
Scli. 1, par.1      2         NC                                    On-lending to sub-borrowers will be at the prevailing market rate of interest.
Sch. 2, par.3                                                      PBI agreement will require: (a) establishment of a unit with at least one staff qualified in project appraisal techniques; (b'
standard project appraisal criteria: sub-loans not to exceed US$0.5 million; debt service coverage ratios of 1.2:1 for
10        NC                                    existing finms, and 1.4:1 for new finms; environmental impact assessments in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Section 2.03       10         C                                    Investment to be made by LNDC based on its Investment Policy Guidelines.
Section 2.04                                                       (a) the Investment Promotion Center will be established as a department-level unit; (b) investor services will be provided
on an unbiased basis even for investors not needing an LNDC factory shell or equity participation; (c) IPC will undertake
5         C                                     a revision of investment promotion literature to indicate the various policy changes agreed.
Covenant types:                                                                               Presentstatus:
1. Accounts/audits                                                                            C = covenant complied with.
2. Financial performance/revenue generation for beneficiaries                                 CD = complied with after delay
3. Flow and utilization of project funds.                                                     CP = complied with partially
4. Counterpart funding.                                                                       NC = not complied with.
5. Management aspect of the project or executing agency.
9. Monitoring, review and reporting.
10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9.
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation.
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action.



19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Not applicable                                Not applicable                   ]
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs /a
Stage of Project Cycle           Planned (weeks)                 Actual (weeks)
Weeks         USS '000         Weeks         US$ '000
Through Appraisal                   n.a.           n.a.             80            209.2
Through Board                       n.a.           n.a              9              84.8
Supervision                         n.a.            n.a.            96            340.4
Completion                          n.a.           n.a.             10             28.4
n.a: not available.
/a As reported in various internal systems.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Activity     Month/Year       Days in      No. of    Specialized Staff     Project Ratings
fields     Persons          Skills
Pre-appraisal       11/89           22           6            0, PSD                NR
Appraisal            3/90           30           6           0, PSD, F              NR
Supervision 1        3/91           4            1              0                   HS
Supervision 2        6/92           10           2            0, PSD                HS
Supervision 3        6/93           11           5           0, L, CB               HS
Supervision 4        3/94           4            3            0, PSD        No Form 590 available
Supervision 5        3195           30           5           0, PSD, F               S
Supervision 6        3/96           7            3           0. PSD, F               S
Supervision 7        8/96           10           2            0, PSD                 S
Supervision 8        6/97           7            2            0, PSD                 S
Supervision 9       4/98            14           2            0, PSD                 S
Completion          2/99            12           2            0, PSD                U
E = Economist
F = Financial Economist                                      U  Unsatisfactory
0 = Operations Officer/Analyst                               S = Satisfactory
CB = Capacity Building                                      HS = Highly Satisfactory
CO = Country Officer
L = Legal



20
Summary Profiles of Six Firm Beneficiaries from the Line of Credit
Mmelesi Lodge in Thaba-Bosiu is a family-owned business that was established in 1992
and is located in Thaba-Bosiu. Mr. Thabo Mroahae is the owner and manager. The lodge employs
33 workers and can accommodate guests for a rest stop or conferences. Mr. Mroahae considers
Lesotho Sun and Maseru Sun as his main competitors. Average occupancy rate is 50%. Mr.
Mroahae borrowed from the line of credit to refinance an existing loan with Barclays because the
line of credit offered longer maturity term (10 years) than Barclays (5 years). The longer term on
the loan was more attractive because it reduced monthly interest payments. The loan from the
line of credit was also used to complete existing facilities. Before borrowing from the line of
credit, Mr. Mroahae was not a client of Lesotho Bank. Mr. Mroahae had his business and
personal banking accounts with the local branch of Standard Chartered Bank. Although the
business was established in 1992, it did not take off until 1996, to expand in 1997-98 following
an increase in tourism. Mr. Mroahae meets his debt obligations on time and finances all working
capital needs through retained earnings. Mr. Mroahae recently met with representativesof the
African Development Bank who were assessing his interest in opening a new lodge in the
Highlands, which the owner accepted in principle. His final decision will depend on the site
assigned by the Lesotho Highlands and the Ministry of Tourism. Mr. Mroahae is also
considering expanding his existing lodge, with possibly a new loan from Lesotho Bank, for which
the lot has already been set aside for him by the Ministry of Tourism.
Mr. Tikoe borrowed from the line of credit in 1996 to purchase machinery to mill maze
and soja and complete the storage building. Prior to borrowing from the line of credit, Mr. Tikoe
had already a loan with Lesotho Bank. Mr Tikoe, who is a retrenched worker from the mines, is
the sole owner of the business and employs 4 workers. Good rainy seasons in 1996 made the
business successful. Since then, the business has struggled because of the dry seasons andlow-
quality of yields. In good times, machinery capacity in 8 hours can mill 6-7 tons ofinaze. The
machine has been operating well below capacity, or remained idle, for some time now. As a
result, Mr. Tikoe has not been able to keep up with his debt obligations and is in substantial
arrears with Lesotho Bank. Mr. Tikoe is looking to link business with other farmers across the
borders either in South Africa or Mozambique.
Dr. Ntabe bought Kingsway Pharmacy from the previous owner in 1992 for which he took
out a loan with Lesotho Bank from the line of credit. Dr. Ntabe was already banking with Lesotho
Bank. The loan has been paid in full. The pharmacy employed 20 workers. The pharmacy was
burned during the political disturbances of September 1998. Since then, Dr. Ntabe has opened a
new pharmacy but with only 8 workers, and is renting the building. Dr. Ntabe had to contract out
a new loan with Lesotho Bank to start anew. Before the September events, Kingsway Pharmacy
was the largest and most prosperous pharmacy in Maseru. Dr. Ntabe estimates it will take 2-3
years for the business to go back to its previous levels.
Happy Landings is a small family-owned business which runs two separate businesses in
parallel: a carpentry shop and a grocery store. Husband and wife operate the business. The
owner borrowed from the line of credit in 1993 to purchase machinery to expand existing
operation. The owner was already a customer of Lesotho Bank, both as an individual and a
businessman. Until 1994, the owner was servicing his debt obligations fairly regularly. When his
wife fell ill during that period, the owner used proceeds from the business to pay for the medical
bills instead of servicing his debt with Lesotho Bank. In 1994, the owner refinanced the loan with
a longer maturity with Lesotho Bank. The owner has been defaulting on his loan since 1994,
despite several reschedulings. Legal action is pending.



21
Southern Fried Chicken is a family-owned business that was established in 1993. The
owner borrowed from the line of credit to buy equipment and working capital. The owner had
already her banking account and a consumer loan with Lesotho Bank. Thebuilding is owned by
the family. The company employs 5 workers and has two main competitors in Maseru. The
business was already struggling before the events, but has since declined substantially because a
great number of people have lost their jobs and income. The loan has nonetheless been fully
paid. Several debt reschedulings were necessary, and daily deposits on interest payments were
made in order to avoid legal action. The business is still opened and no worker has been laid off
yet, although there is strong evidence of under-employment.
Mr. Maphathe established Mphatlalatsane II Transport in 1982. The owner borrowed
from the line of credit in 1992 to expand his business. The owner had previous business loans
with Lesotho Bank, and is also a customer of Nedbank. The transport sector is good, but the
company is only breaking even. The owner is servicing his debt obligations regularly. The
company, which falls within the mid-size category with 25 workers, owns and operates passenger
buses and vehicles for road works. 30% of the business come from the Lesotho Highlands Water
Project. The owner has contracted other business loans with Lesotho Bank to expand operations,
mainly coming from the Highlands Water Project. The company has currently two other
contracts from the Government. Phase I of the Water Project brought substantial potential for
subcontracting. However, with Phase II, the multinationals are bringing in their own equipment
and trucks across from South Africa. As a result, demand for subcontracts from the indigenous
transport companies, such as the Mphatlalasane II, has declined. Mr. Maphathe still thinksthat
prospects for expansion is good, but with a stronger competition.
Summary Profiles of Six Firm Beneficiaries from BAPS Activities
Tapestry Weavers was established in 1990 and is owned and operated by four women. It
employs 10 employees. The capital base comes from the owners' own savings. The building was
built with funding from CIDA. The African Development Foundation financed the roofing.
Tapestry Weavers applied for a loan from the line of credit to finance the working capital at the
initial stage. Lesotho Bank did not accept the application because of lack of adequate collateral.
The owners approached BAPS to receive training in management and bookkeeping. BAPS
referred them to BEDCO which provided basic training in those areas. As a result of trade shows
for which Tapestry Weavers recei-ve grants and assistance from the Ministry of Trade, scope for
business expansion is promising. Tapestry Weavers is starting to see some ripple effects of
increased tourism. Lack of funds to buy additional raw materials, however, prevents Tapestry
Weavers from increasing production. Tapestry Weavers were not satisfied with BAPS services
and thought that BEDCO is in a better position to provide better services than BAPS to small
ventures.
The Lesotho Development Center was established in 1995 to provide basic training in
management and bookkeeping to small businesses. Trainees are for the most part retrenched
workers from the mines. A large number of them are referred to the Center by BAPS and ADF.
The organization is run and funded by the Mining Houses. Free Gold from South Africa donated
the premises and equipment. 75% of the training fees are covered by a number of organizations,
including BAPS. The remaining 25% are covered by the trainees who get the cash in the form of
loans from Lesotho Bank, for whioli MDA has set up a special account for that purpose with
Lesotho Bank. The Lesotho Development Center was satisfied with BAPS services.



22
Cone People's Magazine is the initiative of two young women, of 24 and 26 years old.
The magazine's target reader group ranges between 16-25 years old. The two young women felt
that no magazine in Lesotho addressed issues of interest to this age group, and there was a market
niche. Cone People's Magazine received substantial assistance from BAPS in drawing a business
plan, researching distribution outlets, marketing, and attending meetings with other well-
established publication magazines. Shortly before the closing of the Bank Project, BAPS had
started assisting the two owners in raising funding for their working capital. Since the departure
of BAPS technical staff when the agency was integrated with BEDCO, the owners have lost that
assistance. Cone People's Magazine was very pleased with BAPS services.
Ms. Mokhotho proposed to open a bakery as an additional business to her mini-
supermarket. Ms. Mokhotho received assistance from BAPS to draw a business plan. Currently,
Ms. Mokhotho is looking for the financing. Ms. Mokhotho was pleased with BAPS services.
Mr. Pomela also plans to open a bakery in the surrounding area of Maseru where there is
less competition. Mr. Pomela received assistance from BAPS to draw a business plan. Mr.
Pomela is currently looking for funding to finance fixed assets. Mr. Pomela applied for the equity
fund, but his applications was not accepted by LNDC. No reason was given. Mr. Pomela was
satisfied with BAPS services.
Mmelesi Lodge in Thaba Bosiou received assistance from BAPS in drawing a business
plan. Subsequently, BAPS referred the owner of the lodge to Lesotho Bank for a loan from the
line of credit. BAPS also helped in the negotiations of the loan. The owner of the lodge was
satisfied with BAPS services.
Summary Profiles of Five Private Firms Leasing the Industrial Estates
C&Y Garments was incorporated in 1990 as a subsidiary of the parent company based in
Taiwan. The company produces denim jeans. The company's location is at the Thetsane
industrial estates. Annual production is on average 400,000, and 85% of production are for
export to the US, with the remaining to the EU. The company currently employs 1,500 workers:
1,450 are local workers, and the remaining are in supervisory positions, with the majority local.
The company provides on-the-job training ito all employees, workers and supervisors alike, except
those hired from China. At the time it established in Lesotho, it benefited from theworker
training grant for six months. The company established in Lesotho because of the country's
quota-free status, low-cost labor with higher productivity than in South Africa, and the
availability of ready-to-move-in factory space. The company uses its own financing to finance
fixed assets a-nd working capital. No details were given as to the way the company raises this
financing, but most probably uses retained earnings. In 1997, the company contemplated
increasing production and submitted a demand for expansion for factory space with LNDC. It
decided otherwise following the civil disturbances of September 1998. The unrest seriously
affected production. During that time, the company lost the equivalent of two months of
production and could not reach its target: production continued but could not be transited out of
Lesotho. The minimum wage setting process, which does not follow any particular structure, had
made it difficult for management tr set operational plans. Telecommunications is however the
most pressing problem, which was raised with LNDC but with no concrete results, followed by
water, then electricity. Given the time it usually takes for LNDC to respond to the company's
requests for services, the company has resorted to taking care of mostif its problems. Although
the company would welcome a private management structure, it is planning to relocate elsewhere
in Africa.



23
CGM was established in 1987 to produce denim jeans, and is owned and managed by one
women who is originally from Taiwan. The owner has since established permanent residence in
Cape Town, South Africa. The company located in Lesotho, at the industrial estateof Thetsane,
because of the country's quota-free status and its low-cost, high-productivity labor. It employs
3,400 workers, all recruited locally. Production is for export to the US markets. The company
initially benefited from the worker training grant fund, whereby LNDC shared 75% of the
training costs, then 50%, until the phase-out period. Most of the traininggrant fund went to train
locally recruited employees for managerial and supervisory positions. The training is given in-
house by two managers recruited from South Africa. Water availability is the most urgent
problem for this company, which faces water shortages for as long as one week. The company
finances fixed assets and working capital partly through retained eamings, partly through
commercial loans with Standard Bank with a 75% guarantee from LNDC. This is the only
company to have bought the building from LNDC. Despite heavy losses incurred during the
recent civil disturbances, the company is planning to expand production and hire additional labor,
with two more expatriates to dispense training. The company welcomes a private management
structure, preferably in the form of a coop structure where tenants can also sit on the board.
H.D. Lee, also called Lee Manufacturing, is perhaps one of the oldest companies
established in Lesotho, at the Maputsoe industrial estate. The company was incorporated in 1977
as a subsidiary of the South Africa-based clothing manufacturer, Gallant Durban. By the end of
1987, it started a joint venture subsidiary company with a reputable international company to
diversify its product range. It was subsequently bought in 1988 bythe Edgards Group which
now intends to sell its textile division to K-Mart. The company produces jeans, all for export to
South Africa. The company benefited from the worker training grant fund until 1994. All
employees are hired locally. Workers receive on-the-job training, while supervisors and
managers are sent to South Africa to attend training at the Clothing Institute Training Board and
Training in Industry. With the phasing-out of the grant fund, the company has borne all training
costs, which it considers a worthwhile investment leading to higher productivity of workers,
which in turns contributes to higher profits. A low-cost, high-productivity, and stable labor force
is the main attractive factor, along with the 15% tax holiday. The main problem faced by the
company is telecommunications, water problems have been solved by two bore holes. In spite of
its long presence in Lesotho, the company is not interested in buying the facilities, b-ause of
heavy capital investment requirement. The combination of heavy capital investment, high-risk
sector, and uncertain political environment has made the company reluctant to achieve vertical
integration. Because of the remote location of this industrial estate from Maseru, the company
was minimally disturbed by the recent civil disturbances. It has submitted a request for additional
factory space to LNDC. The parent company raises all capital needed for expansion, most
probably through the Johannesburg stock market. The company would welcome a private
management structure, in the form of a coop structure.
Springfield Footwear was incorporated in 1995 as a subsidiary of Springfield Footwear of
South Africa. The company manufactures shoes, for export to the Southern Africa region, of
which the largest share goes to South Africa. The company has 2,200 employees: 2,180 locally
hired, and the remaining 20 come from the parent company to occupy managerial positions and
give on-the-job training in management skills to local recruits. Workers receive on-the-job
training. The company bears all training costs. Because of regional economic factors, 700
workers have been recently retrenched, and the company is considering expanding to wider
export markets. The major problem faced by the company is shortage of water and
telecommunications. The company does not deal extensively with LNDC; it has resorted to
solving the problems it can solve, for instance all maintenance problems. 85% of the business is
in synthetic footwear, and 50% of the raw materials come from South Africa, and 50% from East
Asia. The remaining business is in leather footweag the raw material is either imported from



24
South Africa or the intemational markets. The company raises capital to finance expansion
through the parent company. The company currently rents 10 buildings, is not interested in
buying, and would favor a private management structure, preferably in the form of a coop
structure.
B.A. TEX was incorporated in 1997 as a subsidiary of B.A. Tex from South Africa. The
company produces T-shirts, sweaters, and knitwear for export to South Africa. All raw materials
are imported. B.A. Tex is owned by two investors from Israel. It employs 220 workers, all
recruited locally, except for four who were recruited from South Africa into managerial and
supervisory positions. The company provides on-the-job training to the workers. Major problems
faced by the company are water and telecomamunications. Low-cost, high-productivity of labor is
the main attractive factor in locating in Lesotho, and the company is considering expanding its
subsidiawy, rather than the parent company, with an additional 450 workers. Demand for
additional factory space was presented to LNDC. The company is not interested in creating
vertical integration because of the heavy capital investment requirement and the unstable political
situation. The company currently rents two buildings and would welcome a private management
structure, preferably in the form of a coop structure.
Summary Profile of One Firm Beneficiary of the Equity Fund
Of the six firms participating in the investment start-up fund, Pioneer Plastics seems to be
the most promising venture. Pioneer Plastics is owned and operated by a local businessman.
Although the owner initiated the project in 1991, he was not able to set up his firm until 1998
because of lengthy referral procedures and assistance from various local agencies. In 1994,
through LNDC, the owner was referred to the APDF in Harare which helped produce the business
plan. In 1996, the owner received a loan as well as financing from the equity fund from LNDC.
The owner has also borrowed from Lesotho Bank to finance part of his working capital. The
company employs 25 workers. Total asset size is estimated at M1.8 million. The owner rents the
facilities from the industrial estate near Maseru. The company's main competition comes from
South Africa. The owner is confident however that he can compete with the South African firms
on the local market because his products are of the same quality as his foreign competitors. The
owner is looking for ways to link up with the manufacturing firms established locally.



25
PART III: APPENDIXES
WORLD BANK
AIDE MEMOIRE
Final Supervision Mission of the Industrial and Agroindustries Development
Project
April 14 - 24, 1998
1.    A mission comprising Gabrielle Rooz (Operations Analvst - World Bank) and
Simon Gray (Task Team Leader - World Bank) visited Maseru between April 14 and 24.
1998. The mission met with the Principal Secretaries and officials of the Ministries of
Finance and Trade & Industry (MTI), Agriculture. Cooperatives & 'Marketing the Central
Bank of Lesotho. officials of both these Ministries and the Central Bank. the Lesotho
National Development Corporation. the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation.
the Business Advisorv and Promotion Service. Lesotho Bank. the Lesotho Agricultural
Development Bank and the NMaluti Highlands Abattoir.
2.    The mission had two main objectives: (a) to review the status of the wind-down
action plan over the final year of project extension: agreed in June 1997; and (b) to
commence the Project's Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
Project Wind-Down
3.    The coordinatin2 NMinistry. MTI. submitted a financial report to 'March 31. 1998
to the mission. The report outlines cumulative disbursements from July 1997 to March
1998. and the claims in progress against the remaining budget. Please see Appendix I
attached. The mission reviewved project status against the financial report and the wind-
down action plan. The Project recorded a high cumulative disbursement rate this year -
relative to previous years - of USSS.2 million.
4.    All major activities within the available budget have been completed except: (a)
construction of two Business information centers (BlCs) - which are due to be completed
before end April 1998 (or at the latest end May 1998) - and; (b) the IPC training and
investment promotion activities which will be ongoing until project completion on June
30. 1998. There has been no new Equity Fund take-up since June 1997. Thle mission re-
emphasized thlat all outstanding activities have to be completed by June 30, 1998 for
tlzem to be eligible for financing  cnder thle Credit. The prognosis that this could be
achieved was reported to be good.
5.    Developments under the line of credit were a major project implementation issue
over the period since the June 1997 supervision mission. Commitments confirmed by the
Central Bank as of the Aueust 30. 1997 deadline were higher than (MI3 million) those
indicated by Lesotho Bank as being in the pipeline during the June 1997 supervision
mission. As a result the line of credit would be fully drawn down as per the legal limit



26
prescribed in Article III Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
This meant that a further allocation of financial resources to LNDC was no longer
available. and the provision of additiona,l factorv infrastructure could not go ahead. It was
noted. however, that the amount spent on factory shells was far higher than that
earmarked  at project appraisal. Total Credit disbursement under the industrial
infrastructure to date is estimated at USS5.9 million against an initial altocation of
USS2.5 million.
6.    Over the later half of calendar y,ear 1997 the Central Bank of Lesotho informed
IDA in written and verbal reports that Lesotho Bank, the sole participating financial
institution in the line of credit. had become distressed. IDA duly advised the Central
Bank to suspend further disbursements to Lesotho Bank in terms of Sections 2.08 and
2.09 of the Subsidiarv Loan Aareement to protect the interests of Governrnent and IDA.
A Conservator was appointed to secure Lesotho Bank in December 1997.
Notwithstandinz the legal provisions regarding disbursements to a distressed bank. the
mission recommended that an audit of the line of credit be carried out to establish if
outstanding commitments and disbursements under the line of credit wvere a legitimate
liabilitv in the books of Lesotho Bank. In terms of the Participating Aoreement between
the central bank and Lesotho Bank Lesotho bank's annual audit should provide a separate
opinion on the operations of line credit. It was recommended that action to initiate the
FY97 audit be taken immediatel,v. and that the terms of reference for the audit be sent to
IDA for non-objection. Disbursements of all eligible expenditures prior to June 30 1998
under the line of credit. need to be completed before December 31. 1998: i.e. 6 months
after project completion.
Project Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
7.    The mission commenced work on the ICR. The objective of the ICR is. inter alia.
to assess project implementation in terms of: (a) the original objectives of the appraised
project. and new developments over the life of the Project; (b) adherence to procedures
and legal covenants: and (c) the economic impact of the project and sustainabilitv after
project closure. ICR's are an important tool for the Client and the Bank to learn from the
experiences of the past. in the preparation and design of any new operation.
8.    A review of all the components was carried out during the mission with executing
agencies and other entities. A follow-up mission to assess the views of final project
beneficiaries is scheduled to take place. A draft report will then be finalized and sent to
the Borrower for comments. It is recommended that the Borrower disseminate the draft
report to all parties involved in implementing the project. The Government will also be
requested to complete their o-wn assessment of project implementation and World Bank
performance. on receipt of the draft report. Again it is recommended that the Borrower's
assessment represents as much as possible the evaluation of all parties involved in project
execution.
Thze Sustainability of the Businzess Advisory and Promotion Services (BAPS).



27
9.    During the June 1997 supervision mission MTI indicated that the operations of
BAPS would be incorporated into the Ministry's budget following project closure
(furthermore the BAP's operating costs were covered by the Ministry over the last
financial year). MTI informed the mission that a Task Force was to be set up to review
the sustainability of BAPS activities, given Government rationalization objectives. Based
on this review the Task Force would make recommendation for the effective
implementation of sustainable BAPS activities. In this regard. it was agreed that the
Project should finance a consultant to assist the task force. The mission provided
comments on draft TOR's prepared by MTI. The evaluation report for the selection of
the consultant should be sent to the Bank in the first week of May, and the report should
be completed no later than June 15, 1998.
Maseru
April 24, 1998






MIbJt
4
a
i



-



31
1.   MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND MAR IETNG
(EECUTING AGENCY)
I'he Government of Lesotho (Borrower) through the Ministry of
Industry,l'rade and Marketing agrees with the writcr, as far as the
Background awid Prjoect Objcctivcs are concemed, we also belief that sorne
uf aie miajor componentu ouch as the Line-of-Credit, slnd the Equity Fund
cxperienced difficulty as per paragraph 14,(pp4) due to different
circumstances, such as the political and economic factors. The project
design was also another major factor which we believe should have beeii
treated as a long-term program ralher lhan a project, this idea could have
allowed enough Lime for the implemcntation process, and the issue of
sustainability could have been recognized whether it was taken care of, for
instance the LNDC lnvestment Promotion Centre and Industrial
Infrastructure face a huge problem of lack of financial resources to keep up
the momentum. Tlhe Ministry therefore recommends that the project of this
magnitude should in future be treated as a program, which has a longer life
to enable those components suclh as Line-of-Credit, Industrial Infatructure
and Equity Fund to be implcmcnted with ease while maintaining the
conditions and terms that have been agre upon during the appraisal.
The importance of a fill1-fledged Co-ordinating Unit cannot be
nveremphasised in a case like this, awareness of the World Bank procedures
(Procurement, Selection of Consultants, Disbursements) should be well-
known to all the implementing agencies before the imnplementation, this will
enable all concerned to do all the necessary on timc. Familiarisation and
commitment of all parties conccrned especially the Co-ordinating unit to the
prujfri  implcmcntation should have bl:n at the fore-front before
implementation, in this case a lot of miustakes were made which could have
be avoided, the failure to maintain the agreed frequency of the meetings by
the established Task-Forces to oversee the components progress, was also
a shortfall of the Co-ordinating Unit, also the frequent changcs of staff in
the Project Co-ordinating Unit was also a problem and poor- maintenance
of project aecounts. It is with this in mind that Government should be
encouraged to retain the same staff members on full-time basis within the
Co-ordinating body and the Bank should in future be encouraged to train
the staff in Bank procedures and equip the with relevant equipment and
material before the Project implehinentati on.
t



32
2.  COMMENTS   HE BAS COMPONENT
The BAPS management agrees with most of the major impeding factors that
affected progress of the comrpoent of the IADP such as lack capacity in
support and advisory organizations, size and low capacity of SME's in
Lesotho impeding progress in forging linkages and absence of micro
lending schemes etc.
It is with this in mind that BAPS management sees future needs of the new
BAPS Unit under BEDCO as:
-    Establishing sustainable micro lending scheme
-    Instituting a broad based guarantee scheme
-    Developing linkage,s between SME's and major stimulants of the
Lesotho economy, and undertaking an array of other initiatives that
were startei under the Project. If all these can be substantially
implemented, significant development of the Basotho Private sector
will be recorded.
pecific Comments
in terms of the third objective of supporting linkages between the large
formda sector and the indigenous sector, that public procurement
represented an additional linkage opportunity. It is also noteworthy to
mention that a task force was established to look into changing the attitudes
of buying officers of goods and services for government in favour of buying
locally - produced items. A lot of headway was made in this rcspect thus
public procurement whicli represents a significant stimulantto the econon y
has been partially tapped.
If this task force is resuscitated and strengthened to achieve its objectives,
a lot of information on public spending can be disseminiated and progrcss
recorded in this regard.
Commenting on the issue of BAPS not having set up a tracer system or
undertake a beneficiary assessment to measure results of its activities BAPS
management was under the impression that as it was the casc during the
mid-termn of the Project, a fully fledged bcncficiary assessmnent was to be
undertaken by a consultant on cormpletion of the Project
2



33
'rhe Bank did review the possibility of setting up a micro credit facility but
did not pursue the idea because of an existing UNCDF micro-finance
programmc with poor performance.
It is unfortunate that the setting up of a micro credit fec.ility wfks not piirsted
As stated above because even on completion of the BAPS Project, on the
basis of a feasibility study that was undertaken and completed on the
replication of a START-UP Fund based on the Cape Town - RSA model,
which worked, BAPS still believes that this idea be pursucd togcthcr with
the need for a broad based guarantee scheme to succeed the Small Scale
Enterprise Programme scheme which showed little or no success.
To address the issue of limited success of the linkages program the bank did
propose to establish an executing agency between the government, Lesotho
Highland Development Authority and small contractors modelled on the
Gambia Agetip Orgaiiization.
On this issue BAPS proposes that resources to undertake this important
function be mobilised for future success of the linkages program. It needed
more resources than were available within the BAPS prograrn. However,
one donor is executing a program for linkages to the Inward invesWrtiiiL
program of LNDC. This stalds to slhow that even though much progress
was noL seetn, problems were brought to the surface and remedial measures
were also explored by the end of the BAPS project, reason why it is an
important step to integrate BAPS services into one of the relevant
organizations - BEDCO in order to maintain continuity.
3.  !COMMNTS FROM  'fW J CENTRAL BANK OF LESOTHO(CBL -
LNE-OF-CREDIT
The comment from the Central Bank of Lesotho are as follows:
It is not correct to say that the 80 percent refinancing on the sub-loans value
was "A recurrent problem throughout project execution, which the Bank
had to address periodically with the Central Bank and Lesotho Bank of the
sub-loans value for the rirst lthirteen sub-projccts; not throughout project
execuLio'i" as stated in paragraph 21, The fact is that 20 percent
erroncously refinanced to Lesotho nink wa-s fully recovered from the bank.
3



34
It is truc, to some extent, that the Central Bank arnd Lesotho Bank did not
manage the line of credit in accordance with the Participating Bank
Agreement. The line of Credit had a very slow start, so slow that even the
Bank agreed to the relaxation of some requirements which Lesotho Bank
had to meet before sucLh sub-projects could bc approved for refinancing. To
this effect, the Bank approved the first sub-projects submitted for
reimnbursement even though Lesotho Bank had not fulfilled all the
requirements per the parLicipating Bank Agreemcnt (Paragraph 45 from line
9)
nstitutional Capacity DLyelopmet
Concerning this item it would be nice to know why the implementation of
the component was unsatisfactory for LNDC, Central Bank of Lesotho and
Lesotho Bank.
E_iviroemental Issaes
It may be iaecessary during the life of a project to undertak.e qnme issues
which were not included at appraisal stage. However, this should be done
with the involvement and concurrence of all parties concerned. This could
help in the smooth imnplementation of a project as a whole.
Some projects which were not inclulded at appraisal were entertained. There
were to be financed fromt the linie of credit. Whilc the idea itself was good,
the manruer in which it was handlcd contributed to the poor performance of
the Linie-of-Credit. The Central Bank, the institutitn responsible for this
component was not involved. The Bank was party to and blessed this idea.
Unfortunately both the viable projects that were envisaged and the
commitments incurred by Lesotho Bank could not be financed, largely
because of the conflicting interests in dhe Line-of-Credit, brought about by
failure to make proper c.m'ultations.
Mention .shoald be made(paragraph 45, last sentence) of the fact that
although the Bank "approved an informal re-allocation of funds for factory
space and other on going comnmitments, this did not inalerialise largely
because of the very "informal" nature of the approval.
4



35
L~ESOTHfO NATIONAL DEVYLOMENT CORPOR~AT1ON (LND}C)
EQUIT  FUND. INDUSTRIAL INFRAS;UCTURE AND INVFST           TM -NT
PROMOTION CENTRI.
The following comments were made regarding Ihivtstnient Promiiotion Centre
(IPC) as an independent body wihiii the LNDC while in fact it is a division within
LNDC. This assumption could therefore be misleading.
Also thc idea of moving IPC to a Government mipi4try nrieinAteq from
LNDC not government. This proposal move is still under consideration and
will certainly not take place during 1999/2000. The pros and cons of this
move are yet to be investigated and presented to the LNDC Board for
consideration. It is worli thotiig that this proposal move is not
reconuimended by thc consultants who have been reviewing the LNDC
structure.
S.   BASOTEHO ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(BEDCO)
The financial and technical assistance obtained from the World Bank
provided under the IADP proved to be of iinmmense bencfit in facilitating the
recovery of BEDCO. However, the two Interational Development Treland
Ltd (IDI) Team of Consultants i.e the Project preparation Advisor (PPA)
a.nd the Financial Advisor (FA) had their efforts diverted more to the re-
organisation nf o.rporation than what their specific terms of reference
required of them.
The deviations in thc initial periods of their management contracts were
justifiable and resulted in the need for extension of their contracts year
terms.
The absurditics met in the management contract with IDI is that on of their
Consultant, PPA diid nnt stay with BEDCO as the Financial Advisor did.
Tlhe PPA did not compile any review report of his work which would assist
continuity on whatever important work done by him.
5



f . wnc. 1fY 1d D K  W t- fNKf- UK iUbz bY 4:S1                 NR . 9:33   b 1/1
36
Krnditanstalt
#Jf Mffr Wiederoufbau
PostfeCh 11 11 4f
60046 Frankfurt am Main
TELE AX   TELEFAX   TLEAX   TE L EFAX
Telefax numbern 001 202 522 1198               emFer In cehrp-   MS, HI emenz
our ref d      Hz
Ms Gabrielle Rooz                             tat. extension.  (49) 69 7431-2645
The World Bank                                fax exterson,   (49) 69 7431-3559
Private Sector and Finance                     a-mal:         hannelore.hiemenz@kfw,de
Africa Region                                  date           April 07,1999
Washington, DC 20433 U.S.A.                    numbe of p,-   1
(Incl. this pF ge)
L II al3    German Financial Co-operation with LESOTHO
Ha Nyenye Industrial Estate
88 66 495 - DM 6.05 Million (Inveetmert)
Q8 70 396 - DM 1.00 Million (Complementary Measure)
Dear Ms. Rooz,
Thank you once again for your sending us copy f the dft im plementaton Completion Report
on World Bankrs Industrial and Agro-lndustries Deveiopment Projoet which we read with great
interest. We appreciate very much the Wide range of new information thus made available to us
and are pleased to confirm that we have no specific remarks as to the statements of the report.
We are also very much supporting Your jnjtiative to assess the stuation of the industrial estates
of Lesotho and the prospects for attracting new entepreneurs to be seen in the regional context
with high subsidiztion in some countries of Southem Afria in order to determine whether and
how comrnmercial viability can be achieved, if possible, by introducing private partners. We feel
that the proposed terms of reference cover the required scope of work to be done. We would
appreciate very much if you could keep us informed about the results of this study. and remain
with
Kind regards
KREDITANSTALT FOR WIEDERAUFBAU
J:\L2A3\HIEM LESOTHOR\SS6495\42FKAKSP\HIEM01 53.doc



37
B El I EI B               Banque Europ6onne d'lnvestissaemnt I European Investmient Banic
fax service no (+352) 43 77 04 or no (+352) 4379 7270 (direct line)
cantre de d6penaee 062 - PAIACP- III/MD
To:       Woridbank                                           FaX No: :001 202 4772978
Washington, USA                                    No of pages to follow: 0
Attention:                           -Mrs. Graibielle Roolz_
Frorm:    M. Drechsler,g(+352) 4379 1 or 4379 7250 (direct line), E-Mail: M.Drechsler EIB.Org
RemarquesJnotes
Subject: Lesotho -   LNDC IV Global Loan
IBRD's Implementatlon Completion Report
and proposed Feasibility Study
Dear Mrs. Rooz,
1. Many thanks for your E-mail sending us your draft completion report on IBRD's industrial project
and the (draft?) TOR for the envisaged comprehensive feasibility study for greater private sector
parffcipaticn in the financing and management of industrial estates, Please find hereafter our
comments.
2. Progress in a1)ocating EIB's LNDV IV Global Loan has been rather sluggish in recent years (and
the allocation period had to be substantialy increased); we would therefore like to ernphasise that
we very much welcome your initiative in particular lf as a result LNDC's actvities could be
organised in a more efficient, dynamic and private sector oriented manner.
3, We would however like to propose that in case the Factory Estates were to be taken out of
LNDC's business, an analysis be also made as to LNDC's remaining tasks and theirlLNDC's
financial viability.
4. If the study comes to the conclusion that subsidisation of factory shells is rather standard
practice in the Southern African countries and notably RSA itself, we would consider that LNDC or
any other entity taking over from LNDC should not be obliged to price Itself out of the market wit
unsubsidised factory estates.
5. When to you foresee the study would be carried out and when would it be available? We would
very much appreciate to receive a copy notably to enable us to plan in a timely manner for further
possible funding needs.
6. Concerning the information required under point A 6 of your completion report please refer to cur
E-mail dated 17 September 1998 but please do not hesitate if you need more information.
Hoping that above comments are useful and thanking you for keeping us updated,
we remain with kind regards.
Date    12103/99                                      Signature
EUROPEAN INVESTMENT B NK
J R Loasby                   C             er
En cas de problTa de rdceptlon, veuflez t6l6phoner au ... 1 If rsceptlon Is unsatisfacTory, please phone 4379-7266
100, boulevard Konrad Adenauer        L-2950 Luxembourg                         Tf 43791



