Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqur NN. 8990-LSO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LESOTHO
IMUSTRIAL AND AGROInDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEKER 5, 1990
Iudustry and Energy Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
dbei offefi dad  lb _tm  may mgpf       be ,id:               wof j,  



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             -    Maloti (M) (singular is loti)
US$1.00                   -    M2.67 (March 1990)
M1.00                     -    US$0.3771
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB           -    African Development Bank
BAPS         -    Business Advisory and Promotion Service
BEDCO        -    Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
CBL          -    Central Bank of Lesotho
CMA          -    Common Monetary Area
DPD          -    Development Finance Division
hIAS         -    Foreign Investment Advisory Services
GOL          -    Government of Lesotho
TCOR         -    Increment.al Capital Output Ratio
D1F          -    International Monetary Fund
LADB         -    Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank
LBFC          -    Lesotho Building Finance Corporation
LEC           -    Lesotho Electric Corporation
LHDA          -    Lesotho Highlands Water Administration
LHWP         -    Lesotho Highlands Water Project
LIH           -    Lesotho Investment Holdings
LIPC         -    Lesotho Investment Promotion Center
LNDC         -    Lesotho National Development Corporation
LNIC          -    Lesotho National Insurance Company
LTC           -    Lesotho Telecomunnications Corporation
MLAR          -    Minimum Local Asset Requirement
MOA           -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOE           -    Ministry of Education
MTI           -    Ministry of Trade and Industry
ODA           -    Overseas Development Administration
OJT           -    On-the-Job Training
RSA           -    Republic of South Africa
SACU         -    Southern Africa Customs Union
SME          -    Small and Medium-scale Enterprises
UNIDO         -    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
VTE           -    Vocational and Training Education
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGROINDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
Credit and Project Suummary .. ................   ........... .   i-iii
I.   Background ....       ........................................ .......1-14
A.  Salient Economic Features.        .. . . . . . . . . . ........ .    1
B.  Industrial Sector Ferformance and Issues ................. .    1
C.  The Agroindustrial Subsector ............................  4
D.  Small-Scale Enterprises and the Role of Women  ..... *    5
E.  Industrial Manpower and Skills Development    ..... ... 6
F.  Financial Sector Performance and Issues ................ O..   7
G.  The Policy Environment for Industrial Investment .......... 10
H.  Government and Bank Strategy ........     .................... 12
II.  Project Related Institutions ................................. 15-27
A. Introduction          ..... . .......... 15
B.  Institutions Participating in the Line of Credit ..........  15
C.  Institutions Participating in the Equity Funding,
Investment Promotion and Industrial
Infrastructure Components ..........................  17
D. Institutions Participating Only in the Institutional
Strengthening Component  ... ........ ........ ... .....  25
III. The Project       ....... ........ .............. .. ..... 28-41
A.  Project Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement ......... 28
B.  Project Obj   ectiv      esiand Design  ......... 28
C.  Project Description ....... .....         .............  29
D.  Policy Reforms     ....      ........................................ 33
E. Cost Estimates ................................... ........ .   36
F.  Financing Arrangements ............ . ...................... 36
G.  Environmental Impact .................................      37
H.  Procurement     . ............. .  ................. .... 38
I. Disbursement ..... .... .....             ... ...........  40
J. Accounts and Audit ....... .............    .................. .  41
IV.  Project Tmplementation and Management .........................  42-49
A.  Line of Credit Component ..   .... ............. ......  42
B. Equity Funding and Venture Capital Component       . ..  44
C. Agroindustries Component  .... ..           .... ..  46
D- Industrial Infrastructure Component            ...  46
E.  Institutional Strengthening Component       ..... ...  46
F. Overall Project Management, Monitoring, Evaluation   ..  48
G.  IDA Supervision .................................. .. .... .  48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.   Project Benefits and Risks .................................... 50-52
A.  Beneficiaries and Expected Benefits ........... 0* .......... 50
B. Risks .      .................................................... 51
VI.  Agreements Reached at Negotiations and Recommendation ......... 53-56
ANNEXESs
Annex I    -   The Industrial Sector:  Key Indicators
Table 1.1 The Structure of Economic Activity, 1967-1988
Table 1.2 Ownership of Firms with Pioneer Industry Stuatus
Table 1.3 Th'. Structure of Merchandise Exports
Table 1.4 The Composition of Larger Firms in Manufacturing, 1986
Table 1.5 Lesotho, Survey of Small-Scale Industries, 1989
Table 1.6 Locations and Distributions of Small-Scale Industries, 1989
Annex II   -   The Agroindustrial Subsector Performance and Issues
Annex III  -   Financial Sector
Table 3.1 Composition of the Financial Sector
Table 3.2 Comparative Performance of Lesotho Bank
Table 3.3 Comparative Performance Lesotho Bank and other Banks
Table 3.4 Monetary Survey
Table 3.5 Selected Ratios of the Commercial Banks
Table 3.6 Distribution of Commercial Bank Deposits by Type
Table 3.7 Commercial Bank's Loans and Advances to Business
Enterprises and Statutory Bodies (end of period)
Annex IV   -  Lesotho National Development Corporation
Annex V    -   Lesotho Bank
Annex VI   -  Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank
Annex VII  -   Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
Annex VIII -  Detailed Cost Tables
Annex IX   -   Terms of Reference - Technical Assistance
Annex X    -   Policy Reforms
Annex XI   -   Supervision Plan



LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers         The Government of Lesotho
Beneficiaries:    Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL); Ministry of Trade and Industry
(MTI); Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC);
Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank (LADB); Basotho
Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO); Ministry of
Education (MOE); Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and selected
agroindustrial parastatals; and the participating banking
institutions (PBIs).
Amount:            SDR 15.1 million (US$21.0 million)
Terms:            Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity
Onlendint
Termst            Line of Credit.  Government will pass US$4.7 million
equivalent of the IDA credit to the CBL at the onlending rate
to PBIs minus a one percent administration fee. The CBL would
onlend this amount in local currency at the prevailing average
cost of term deposits ia the banking system. The PBIs would
onlend the funds in local currency at a variable rate based on
market interest rates vith maturities ranging from a minimum
of two to a maximum of twelve years, inclusive of grace
periods of up to three years. The PBIs would bear full credit
risk and would repay the CBL according to the same maturities
of the individual subloans to final beneficiaries.
Equity Line. The GOL would provide US$1.9 million of the IDA
credit to LNDC which would manage the equity operation for a
five percent fee through a mutual fund arrangement. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk and the IDA
commitment fee. Dividends and capital gains realized would be
passed back to the mutual fund.
Industrial Infrastructure. The GOL will provide US$2.5
million to LNDC at an interest rate of 8.8Z (current IBRD rate
plus 1OZ) for a period of twenty years including a grace
period of three years. LNDC shall bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Agroindustries Component. The GOL would provide US$4.6
million of the IDA credit to four agroindustrial parastatals
to finance management contracts and staff training. The funds
would be onlent at 8.8Z (current IBRD rate plus 1O) for a
period of twenty years including a grace period of three
years. Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.



- ii -
Project
Obiectives:       The principal project objective is to encourage foreign and
indigenous investment in the industrial and agroindustries
sectors. In particular, the project would (a) support policy
changes to improve the environment for private investment; (b)
help investors to take advantage of opportunities created by
the Lesotho Highlands Water Project; (c) support subcontract
linkages between the formal industrial sector and Small- and
Medium-Scale Enterprises (SMEs); and (d) in the medium-term
diversify investment into higher value added and agriculture-
based industries.
Pro3ect
Descriptions      The project broadly addresses constraints to investment
through interventions in the financial sector, investment
promotion, agroindustrial development and strengthening of key
industrial and financial institutions. Project components are
(a) term credit and an equity fund designed to increase access
to financial services currently not available in Lesotho; (b)
support for the commercial operation of key agroindustrial
parastatals through management contracts and training; (c)
support for timely provision of infrastructure for industrial
estates; and Cd) institutional strengthening and training to
(i) strengthen investment promotion, (ii) build the project
appraisal and management capacity of financial institutions,
(iii) improve the institutional performance of LNDC, LADB and
BEDCO, (iv) train entrepreneurs and labor in management and
technical skills necessary to improve the quality and
competitiveness of Lesotho-made products, and (v) carry out
studies to identify reforms and services needed to improve
Lesotho's investment environment.
Benefits:         The project aims to encourage investment in labor-intensive
manufacturing. Promotion efforts would focus on diversifying
the subsectoral composition of industry and encouraging higher
value added activities and industries based on agriculture.
Project components are expected to generate about 3,500 new
jobs over five years. The strong export-orientation of new
firms, given Lesotho's preferential market access, is expected
to improve balance of payments performance. The
agroindustries component would provide for the efficient
operation of key parastatals, reduce their drain on the
government deficit, improve the potential for private
agroindustrial development, and expand markets for high value
crops. The institution building component would strengthen
key financial and industrial development institutions. Policy
reforms, which remove distortions, disincentives and
regulatory bottlenecks, are expected to reduce costs and
uncertainty and thereby encourage private investment and the
provision of a fuller range of financial services.
Risk:             Political uncertainty in South Africa (RSA) and the potential
removal of sanctions against the RSA could jeopardize the
project's overall investment promotion objective. The risk
surrounding the lifting of sanctions is mitigated by Lesotho's
preferential access to markets and low labor costs which still



- iii -
gives it an advantage over the RSA for export oriented
investors. From Lesotho there is easy access both to the
large and growing RSA market through the SACU arrangements and
to external markets where preferential (tariff-exempt) access
is available to Lesotho through the Lome Convention and
General System of Preferences arrangements. While the
prospect of political change in RSA has so far positively
affected investor attitudes towards the region, if the process
is prolonged and internal unrest grows, investor attitudes may
change. On the other hand, changes in South Africa's economic
development policies away from heavy subsidies for investors
in the 'homelands' should enable Lesotho to compete for
foreign investment on more even terms. The eroding
competitiveness of Basotho labor in the region with respect to
wages and skills jeopardizes a principal comparative
advantage. This risk is mitigated by the project manpower and
skills training prog.-am and by policy reforms related to the
setting of wage rates. The principal risk to the development
of financial markets is that the government deficit will again
crowd cut financing to the private sector.  This is mitigated
by the successful expenditure control program being
Implemented by the PFr/lSAP program.
Project Cost Summary                   Local      Foreign      +Total
---- USS (millions) -----
Investment Credit                           2.4            4.7       7.1
Equity Financing                            0.6            1.9       2.5
Foreign Investment Promotion                0.7            0.6       1.3
Indigenous Investment Promotion             0.3            0.2       0.5
Skills Training and Trade Testing           0.1            0.4       0.5
Agro-Industrial Development                 0.0            4.6       4.6
Technical Assistance and Training           0.0            4.1       4.1
Beneficiary Assessments and Studies         0.0            0.2       0.2
Industrial Infrastructure                    .5            2.5       3.0
Total Base Costs                            4.6           19.2      23.8
Contingencies                               0.2            1.3       1.5
Total Project Costs                         4.8           20.5      25.3
Financing Plans
IDA                                         0.5           20.5      21.0
Project Sponsors                            1.4            0.0       1.4
LNDC                                        1.1            0.0       1.1
PBIs                                        1.5            0.0       1.5
Government                                  0.3            0.0       0.3
Total                                       4.8           20.5      25.3
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
FY91     FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95     FY96
Annual             1.5       1.5      4.0      4.0       5.0      5.0
Cumulative         1.5       3.0      7.0     11.0      16.0     21.0



I. BACKGROUND
A. Salient Economic Features
1.01      Surrounded by the Republic of South Africa (RSA) and with an
extremely limited natural resource base, Lesotho's economic development is
necessarily highly dependent on the RSA. About half of Lesotho's male
labor force works in the South African mines; their remitted incomes
account for about 45X of Lesotho's GDP and 70? of its external account
receipts. Similarly nearly half of the Government of Lesotho (GOL)
revenues come from the South African Customs Union (SACU) in the form of
rebated customs duties on Lesotho's foreign goods imports. Receipts on
exports cover only a tiny proportion of expenditures on imports. Ninety-
five percent of imports come from the RSA, and 80S of exports are sold
there.
1.02       Lesotho's economy faces a problematic but potentially promising
medium-term future. On the negative side is the deep vulnerability from
Lesotho's dependency on the RSA, where the post-apartheid economic and
political future is uncertain. There is also the formidable difficulty
associated with 352 unemployment, labor force growth of 20,000 persons a
year, and stagnant employment opportunities for migrant workers in South
Africa. On the positive side, a comprehensive structural reform program
has made substantial progress in reducing the government deficit and its
reliance on domestic bank financing; also, there are favorable trends
involving foreign direct investment as a means of industrial development
and employment generation. Above all, the Lesotho Highlands Water Project
(LHWP) will provide a long-term opportunity for Lesotho to broaden and
strengthen its economic base. The project's direct benefits to the economy
will come from construction and service contracts, water royalties, and
increased customs revenue to the Government. Potentially large indirect
benefits could accrue to the industrial sector from spinoff opportunities
resulting from generally increased demand in the economy. A principal
objective will be to capture these benefits for Lesotho's long-run economic
development. Given the heavy foreign and RSA domination of the Lesotho
economy, with few linkages to indigenous suppliers, the proposed project
investments would focus on development of indigenous enterprises and their
potential to benefit from LHWP opportunities and contracts with foreign
industrial enterprises.
B. Industrial Sector Performance and Issues
Performance
1.03      During the past 25 years, Lesotho has managed to build a small
but significant industrial sector. From less than 1S of GDP in the mid-
1960s, the sector now accounts for about 11? of GDP (Annex I, Table 1.1).
Over a 20-year period, the sector has grown an average of 18S per annum,
which is exceptional by the standards of contemporary Africa. Three



principal characteristics are apparent in Lesotho's industrial developments
(a) an enclave-like formal sector that is dominated by fore..gn firms; (b) a
highly distorted agro-industrial sector, dominated by state-owned
enterprises; and (c) an indigenous enterprise sector where financing and
promotional needs have not been effectively addressed by policy and other
interventions.
1.04      A surge in foreign investment in the late 1970s and into the
1980C was primarily motivated by trade-related reasons, especially
intensified worldwide economic sanctions against the RSA. Also, to avoid
Multi-Fibre Agreement quotas, certain Asian producers relocated part of
their production to such countries as Lesotho and Mauritius. Lesotho's
embryonic electronics sector also owes its existence largely to this quota
avoidance and to trade sanctions against the RSA. It is easier, and legal,
for RSA firms to import critical electronics components if the importing
firms are based in Lesotho rather than in the RSA itself. Thus, half the
firms in the sector in 1986 either were wholly owned by foreigners or were
joint ventures with foreign partners. RSA-owned firms avoiding sanctions
have been particularly important, representing half of all foreign-owned
firms in the sector. This trend appears to be continuing. By 1986, the
wholly foreign-owned and joint venture companies accounted for 77Z of the
jobs in the formal industrial sector (Annex I, Table 1.2).
1.05      These firms have made industrial exports the most buoyant
element of Lesotho's total exports. In 1987, manufactured products had
grown to nearly 60Z percent of total export value, compared with only 25X
in 1981 (Annex I, Table 1.3). Indeed, Lesotho's trade regime is reasonably
outward oriented. SACU tariffs and surcharges are rela:ively low, and
duties are refunded on raw materials embodied in export products.
1.06      Lesotho's attractiveness as an investment location is due to its
preferential market access as follows:
First, Lesotho, being a member of SACU, enjoys unrestricted access to
the RSA market of 30 million people;
Second, Lesotho-made products enjoy duty-free access to the European
Economic Community (EEC) of 300 million people 11 because Lesotho
is a signatory of the Lome Convention; and
Third, the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) provides Lesotho
with special advantages, particularly in the U.S. and Japanese
markets and, to a lesser extent, in the larger Commonwealth
countries.
1! That is, provided that the products exported have been subject to enough
transformation in Lesotho. For many products this is achieved if the tariff
heading of the finished product is different from that of the product before
transformation. However, the rules are more stringent for sensitive products
such as textiles and footwear.



Comparable arrangements under the NordiclSADCC accord and the Preferential
Trade Area in Southern and Eastern Africa, which Lesotho joined in 1984,
provide similar benefits.
1.07      Although the RSA is the most important export market for Lesotho
-- and is the most important single source of new foreign investment --
from 1984 to 1988 South Africa's share of Lesotho's exporcs declined from
93.62 to 792. Interestingly, as Lesotho's exports have grown drax.stLcally
(threefold since 1984) so has the relative importance of the EEC and U.S.
markets. The share of exports to the U.S. has grown from less than 1? to
12.7Z, and exports to the EEC have increased from H1.9 million to M9.7
million in that period.
1.08      A final characteristic of the industrial sector is the clear
improvement in the efficiency of capital use. From the mid-1970s to the
early 19809 the incremental capital - output ratio (ICOR) declined from 8
to about 3, comparable to the East Asian ICORs during their period of
labor-intensive industrialization. Statistical evidence indicates no clear
tendency for labor productivity to rise. This would signify that the
industrial sector plays its role in employment creation (i.e. 2,000 jobs in
the early 1970s rising to about 10,000 by the end of the 1980s) partly by
failing to use available labor-saving technology. Also, structural
changes, including the increased importance of garment manufacturing, imply
greater labor intensity. Throughout the period 1969 to 1988, employment
rose more rapidly than output.
Issues
1.09      Despite this strong economic performance, there are issues.
First, a close interdependent network among firms has not emerged in
Lesotho. Rather, a variety of simple linear sourcing relatlonships exists,
mainly back to the RSA and outwards to the RSA and international markets.
The large and active subsector of very small Basotho enterprises is not
well integrated with medium and larger enterprises. As a result, the
foreign sector has not contributed significantly to the process of
technology transfer and the building of the indigenous sector through
subcontract linkages (paras. 1.17 to 1.20).
1.10      While agroindustrial development has high priority in terms of
providing an outlet for agricultural production (agriculture employs the
majority of the population), extreme distortions in that subsector have
retarded private investment. If agroindustrial development is to fulfill
its potential in terms of incomelemployment generation and linkages between
Lesotho's indigenous resource base and the dynamic industrial sector,
removing these distortions will be essential (paras. 1.14 to 1.16).
1.11      Second, the subsectoral composition of the sector is narrow and
heavily concentrated on subsectors with low domestic value added and few
linkages with the domestic market (textileslgarments) and on state-owned
enterprises (food and beverages). Over half the firms in 1986 were in the
three areas of food and beverages, textiles and garments, and footwear
(Annex I, Table 1.4). Textiles and garments has, with 33? of all firms,
the largest presence in the sector. However, average employment and value



- 4 -
added were relatively small, accounting respectively, for 282 and 20? of
total industrial employment and value added. The food and beverages
subsector dominates in terms of output and employment. With only about 12Z
of total firms in the sector, this subsector accounted for 282 of
employment and 54? of value-added, a result partly explained by the high
degree of protection for the agro-industrial subsector.
1.12      Third, industrial development is motivated more by transitory
international economic and political circumstances (sanctions) than by the
policies of the Lesotho government itself. Lesotho's industrial incentives
policy has consisted mainly of subsidized loans, provision of factory
shells, and a tax holiday system, instead of provision of carefully
targeted services and infrastructure. Regulations that increase investor
costs of doing business have been compensated for by tax expenditures
(through the tax holiday) that are excessively costly in terms of foregone
revenue. In addition, subsidized lending policies have seriously affected
the performance and viability of key non-bank financial institutions.
Resources would be more cost-effectively directed toward improving services
and infrastructure to attract export-oriented firms from abroad.
1.13      While a low-cost, highly educated labor force is one of
Lesotho's comparative advantages that attracts foreign investment, the GOL
has no clear manpower development strategy to increase the supply of
skilled labor as the basis for more diversified and sophisticated
industrial investment. These issues are explored in more detail below
(paras. 1.21 to 1.25).
C. The Agroindustrial Subsector
(Annex II provides a detailed discussion)
1.14      Agroindustries dominate the industrial sector in terms of
employment and value added. Within the subsector, publicly-owned
investments, concentrated in a few sizeable parastatals, contribute about
63? of total agroindustrial GDP. The financial performance of the major
parastatals generally has been poor. Most have persistent financial losses
that have eroded equity and required the massive infusion of government
budgetary resources. Government budget transfers to agroindustrial
parastatals increased from M6.0 million in 1983184 to almost M27 million in
1987188, a nearly five-fold increase (see Annex for discussion of the major
agro-industrial parastatals).
1.15      The principal reasons for this poor performance ares
a)   Poor management and organization.  The management teams are
civil servants or bureaucrats without appropriate training and
experience in business or commercial management (the exceptions
being the feed mill and the brewery, with contract management
and management by a private joint venture partner,
respectively). Parent ministries, in most cases the Ministry of
Agriculture, dictate policy, which is often in conflict with
commercial objectives; the ministries also control resources and



- 5 -
employment. In many cases plants are built with substantial
excess capacity, which further limits viable operations; and
b)   Inappropriate policy environment.  GOL uses some of the
parastatals as instruments for achieving specific policy
objectives. For example, the marketing policy for meat and meat
products attempts to establish a close linkage between the
national abattoir and implementation of a range destocking
policy. However, the abattoir is obligated to purchase all
cattle irrespective of quality, thereby encouraging
ovzrstocking, overgrazing and the socially acceptable but
economically inefficient custom of holding livestock as assets.
1.16      A more pervasive conflict is GOL's policy of using the
parastatals as instruments of social and income distribution, both at the
consumer and producer levels. Annex II, Table 2.4 summarizes the
substantial subsidies accorded by the parastatals, which include up to a
1002 subsidy of producer eatablishment costs for specified vegetables, a
742 subsidy on agricultural machinery rental charges, a 712 subsidy on
slaughter charges at the abattoir, and substantial price subsidies to
consumers of milk and poultry. The impact of these subsidies is far
ree-ting. They affect the parastatals' financial results and introduce
distortions that discourage or make the private sector's participation in
competition with the parastatals impossible. As a result, private
agroindustrial investment has declined substantially. By 1988 its
contribution to agroindustrial GDP had fallen to 372 from about 542 four
years earlier.
D. Small-Scale Enterprises and the Role of Women
1.17      Overwhelmingly, Basotho-owned industrial enterprises belong to
the small scale, or even microenterprise, sector. Low levels of
entrepreneurship, scarcity of personal financial resources, and lack of
industrial tradition and experience have limited business development to
those who have failed to find other employment, i.e. women and men unable
to make a living from agriculture or unable to obtain employment in the
South African mines. The SME sector employs about 4,000, which combined
with the formal sector, brings total industrial employment to about 14,000.
1.18      A recent survey of the sector (Annex I, Table 1.5) indicates
that over 602 of SMEs are run by wmen engaged principally in knitting,
sewing, leather work and handicraft production. Another 152-202 of
industrial SMEs are engaged in woodworking, and the remainder in metalwork,
brick, and concrete block production, and in maintenance and repair work.
Significantly, there is little evidence of small-scale food processing,
usually a subsector in which SMEs predominate but which in Lesotho is
dominated by state-owned companies.
1.19      With estimates that 50X of the adult male labor force (150,000
men) are migrant workers in South Africa, mostly in the mines, this leaves
women with increased economic and social responsibilities as principal
income providers and heads of household. Most women work in the low-



-6-
productivity rural subsistence farming sector. Women in the urban areas
engage in small business activities (street-vending, working in cafes,
making handicrafts, or dressmaking, hair dressing, and other cottage
industries), most of which require little start-up capital and offer
sporadic and uncertain profit.
1.20      In addition, women-owned businesses suffer from discriminatory
laws (which require husbands to sign for bank loans), as well as other
problems common to smali businesses, including: (a) ignorance of how to
approach governmental authorities for vital business information; (b)
ignorance of potentially viable projects to undertake in terms of an
individual's skills and financial base; (c) lack of technological know-how
and market opportunities; (d) lack of information on how to start and
operate a business successfully (i.e. managerial and financial skills); and
(e) lack of knowledge about sources and procedures to procure financial
resources. 2/
B. Industrial Manpower and Skills Develooment
1.21      For the future, Lesotho's competitiveness as a supplier of
relatively inexpensive labor, one of its principal assets, must be given
greater consideration. Table 1.1 compares Lesotho's minimum wages with
those in other SACU countries. Skilled and semi-skilled workers, wage
rates (and hence industrial wage costs) are relatively high, mainly due to
absolute shortages of trained workers in relation to industrial demand.
This, in turn, suggests the need for rapidly expanding the country's supply
of skilled manpower over the medium term. Vocational and technical
training programs have been slow to develop, however. As af 1986, only
about 1,800 students were being trained in pre-service industrial-
commercial courses, far short of requirements.
1.22      To address this problem the GOL has recently begun steps to
improve the quality and relevance of pre-service vocational training, inter
alia, by:  (a) standardizing curricula and examinations in some key trades;
(b) involving industry representatives in shaping course content; and (c)
increasing the practical content of the courses through emphasizing
systematic industrial connections (e.g., apprenticeships) for students.
Industry's own strategy for meeting its demand for skilled workers has been
to provide on-the-job training (OJT), e.g., through pairing new hires with
21 Various organizations are in the process of formation in an effort to
offer financial and advisory services to women: the Lesotho branch of Women's
World Banking (WWB), Women in Business (UIB), and the National Council of
Women (NCW). Their goals include (a) organization of research, workshops,
seminars, lectures and training programs for women; and (b) professional women
advising other women and helping them gain contacts with funding agencies,
banks, etc. NCW, an NGO, provides a two-year vocational and entrepreneurial
skills development program. WWB, once formally established, would provide
banking services to women with financial resources initially supplemented by
the United States-based WWB Headquarters.



-7 -
experienced skilled workers, training workers in parent plants abroad, or
bringing in trainers to develop skills in-plant.
Table 1.1:  Minimum Wages in Southern Africa Region
(Rand per month)
Lesotho                                            189
Swaziland                                          192-200
Botswana                                           198
RSA
Kwazulu                                     196
Qwa Qwa                                     280
Ciskei                                      264
1.23      In-service skills development has been supported by LNDC, which,
with assistance from IDA, ODA and ADB, introduced a training grants scheme
for new and expanding firms. The scheme covers 75Z of the costs of in-
service skills training, including subsistence. travel, tuition and wage
costs during training periods. Eighty percent of beneficiary companies
have been export oriented. The grants scheme is thus dual-purpose,
increasing the supply of skilled workers in Lesotho vhile being an
incentive to investment through subsidizing wage costs.
1.24      In general, OJT or in-service training (as opposed to formal
pre-service programs) is cost-effective for rapidly increasing the supply
of skilled workers -- there is little risk of irrelevance of the training
topics and content, and firms are likely to be more cost-conscious than
training institutions tend to be.
1.25      The main drawbacks are that training standards are uneven across
firms and that training is often too narroi. in scope to allow for
flexibility among trainees to adapt to changing technologies and industrial
skills requirements. A program of systematic skills testing is needed to
ensure the adequacy of skills learned on the job, and would be an
inducement to prospective investors by certifying specific manpower skills.
F. Financial Sector Performance and Issues 31
1.26      The following paragraphs highlight key financial sector issues
to be addressed by the proposed project. Key financial indicators are
provided in Annex III of this report, and appraisals of key financiai
institutions are provided in Annexes IV, V, VI and VII.
3t For a detailed discussion of the financial sector see a grey cover report -
Lesotho Financial Sector Review (Report No. 8021-LSO, April 16, 1990).



- a -
1.27      Background.  Lesotho's financial system consists of a Central
Bank (since 1982), three commercial banks, 41 two specialized banks, and
a rural credit system of 73 rural credit unions. The specialized deposit-
taking institutions are the Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank (LADB)
and the Lesotho Building Finance Corporation (LBFC). In addition, there
are two development finance companies, the Lesotho National Development
Corporation (LNDC) and the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
(BEDCO), which are funded by the Government and by foreign loans and
grants. The LNDC concentrates on larger enterprise development; BEDCO
deals with the smaller end of the market. LNDC, BEDCO and LADB were
established to promote industrial and agro-industrial investment by
providing low-interest rate financing and highly subsidized services, and
by making direct investments. The Lesotho National Insurance Company (LNIC)
represents the insurance industry. The Central Bank adequately supervises
the banking institutions, which are largely self-regulating. A principal
weakness is on-site surveillance, a gap being filled by a recently
appointed IMF advisor, however.
1.28      Lesotho's financial structure is in many ways an extension of
the South African financial system. Membership in the Common Monetary Area
(CMA), which allows free flow of financial resources across borders,
constrains Lesotho's implementation of a monetary policy independent of
South Africa. The financial sector is not well developed, partly
reflecting Lesotho's access to a full range of sophisticated financial
services in the RSA. Most financial activity in Lesotho is short-term
overdraft lending by the commercial banks to their traditional clients on
the basis of strict collateral requirements. Despite the proximity of the
Johannesburg stock exchange, Basotho entrepreneurs, especially in the small
and medium-scale range, effectively have no access to equity markets. The
principal void in Lesotho's markets is the lack of loan and equity finance
for indigenous borrowers who have viable projects but no traditional
collateral or bank track records.
1.29      Financial policy has focused on the channeling of resources into
the Lesotho economy. For example, the 1981 Minimum Local Asset Requirement
mandates a minimum of 85? percent local use for domestically generated
resources as a mechanism to limit banks' investment of these resources in
the RSA. The Miners Deferred Pay Fund was established from the GOL policy
requirement that 60? of migrant miners' pay be directly remitted to Lesotho
by the RSA mining companies.
1.30      The effect of these policy parameters is mixed.  First, the
commercial banks are financially sound and market oriented as a result of
having been relatively free from Government interference. Key interest
rates (prime lending and the short-term treasury bill rate), although
administratively set by the Central Bank, closely track South African
market rates, thus staying in line with the true cost of capital.
Exceptions are the savings deposit rate (a short term deposit instrument)
which is set above the market rate and above term deposit rates as a means
4/ The commercial banks include the Government-owned Lesotho Bank as well as
local branches of Standard Chartered Bank and Barclays Bank.



of protecting small savers against the market power of the banks. Also,
long-term government bond rates are set below market-determined yields paid
on equivalent South African bond instruments. These non-market based
policies combined with the absence of demonstrated profitable long-term
investment oppcrtunities, such as investment (term) lending, have
contributed to banks' lack of incentive to mobilize term resources.
Generally deposit interest rates are substantially below those in South
Africa reflecting bank liquidity and banks' claim that there is a dearth of
bankable projects in Lesotho for which to mobilize additional resources.
1.31      Second, while the Minimum Local Asset Requirement has been
effective in keeping resources in Lesotho, the policy's chief objective: to
encourage local investment, has been unsuccessful.  Banks' domestic credit
to the private sector fell substantially to 32S of the total after this
policy became effective. This is largely due to the crowding out effect of
the Government deficit and the extremely attractive 30Z-plus yields (tax
inclusive) on Government paper, which have far exceeded the 202 prime
lending rate. 51 Thus, the principal effect of the MLAR has been to
provide domestic financing for the Government's budget deficit.
Expenditure control under the IMF program has reduced the deficit from 1O0
in 1988/89 to 6.12 of GDP in 1989/90. The deficit is expected to fall to
3.12 of GDP during the current FY90191, making the Government a net repayer
to the banking system and increasing the supply of lendable resources for
private investment.
1.32      Banks have remained conservative partly because more aggressive
lending practices have not been necessary to maintain high
profitability. 6/ The challenge now is to encourage banks to expand
credit to the private sector.
1.33      Although banks have liquidity, they have few term resources to
support investment lending and do not aggressively practice maturity
transformation. While the current small volume of term project lending is
based on renewing short-term loans, business planning requires availability
of more predictable financial instruments. Expanded availability of term
lending instruments, in turn, requires that banks mobilize term deposit
resources.
1.34      Third, the performance of the parastatal Lesotho National
Development Corporation (LNDC), Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank
(LADB), and Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO) has been
weak as a result of their being used as instruments of development policy.
51 During 1989, for example, T-Bills were earning 20.122 and given their tax
free status, an alternative asset would have had to earn a taxable 36.61 to
give it an equivalent rate of return. This compares to a prime rate on
lending of only 201. Thus the government had created a strong disincentive to
provide loans to the private sector.
6/ While switching en masse from lending to riskless T-Bill instruments,
banking sector returns on average assets increased dramatically from 3.52 to
5.4S between 1988 and 1989.



- 10 -
The issues affecting these non-bank financial institutions and project
institutional strengthening efforts are explored in Chapter II on Project
Related Institutions.
G. The Policy Environment for Industrial Investment
Background
1.35      Paras. 1.14 to 1.16 on the agroindustrial sector and paras. 1.30
to 1.34 on the financial sector indicated distortions which impede
economic efficiency, private investment, and the development of new
financial instruments to support investment. In addition, the recent
diagnostic review of Lesotho's investment environment 7/ revealed
aspects of the regulatory and institutional framework that reduce the
country's attractiveness to private investors by imposing high costs and
uncertainty. The principal issues are as follows:
Industrial Sector Policies
1.36      To date the GOL has relied on a tax holiday as a principal
policy instrument to promote industrial investment. The tax holiday has
several anomalies and weaknesses. First, since trade and market access are
the principal motivations for investors to come to Lesotho, a complete tax
holiday bestows a windfall to companies that would have located in Lesotho
in any case. The argument that non-tax reasons are the principal
motivation for investing in Lesotho is made more compelling by the fact
that investors choose Lesotho over the South African homelands where
investment tax concessions as well as other subsidies are far more
attractive. Second, access to the tax holiday is wrapped in an
administratively cumbersome decision-making process by the Pioneer
Industries Board, thus introducing uncertainty into the investment process.
Third, the tax holiday is perceived as available only to larger foreign
enterprises. Finally, the tax holiday introduces a short-term time horizon
into the investment planning process and hence encourages "foot-loose,
industry, with no commitment to develop longer-term linkages within the
country.
1.37      Processing of Work Permits.  In most developing countries,
foreign investors are motivated to replace expatriate workers and managers
quickly with locals because of the exceptionally large salaries and
benefits expatriate staff often require. Lesotho, however, poses an
exception given its proximity to South Africa where managerial staff can be
recruited at no additional expense. Sensitive to the employment needs of
its people, the GOL carefully controls the number of expatriate workers to
ensure counterpart training and to generate opportunities for Basotho
employees to move into management positions. The effect of this policy has
been to introduce unacceptable delays and uncertainty in the processing of
work permits.
7/ Diagnostic Review of Lesotho's Investment Environment, May 1989, by the
Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS).



- 11 -
1.38      Land Availability.  The Land Act, No. 17, 1979, provides that
all land in Lesotho is vested in the Basotho Nation and held by the State
as the representative of the Nation. The Land Act further provides that
foreigners or majority foreign-owned companies cannot be granted leases by
the state and can only hold sub-leases from a head lessor, a representative
of the State. Presently access to most industrial land is through LNDC on
a sub-lease basis. While LNDC has done a commendable job of developing
industrial land, its monopoly over the availability of land for this
purpose has been problematic and a time consuming bottleneck. For example,
while LNDC can grant a maximum sub-lease term of 30 years, in practice the
lease is on average for less than 10 years, with terms for continuance and
renewal which greatly increase investor's perceived tisk.  Banks are
reluctant to accept sub-leases held by foreign concerns as collateral for
loans due mainly to the terms of the sub-leases imposed by LNDC.  While in
principal indigenous entrepreneurs can receive land grants directly from
the Ministry of Interior without passing through LNDC, they face
overwhelming delays and bottlenecks in obtaining land from the Land
Commission. Mechanisms to improve the availability, transferability and
collateral quality of land could be achieved in part by opening competition
with LNDC for the provision and development of industrial land.
1.39      Control of Natural Resource-Based Industry.  To protect natural
resources for the benefit of the people of Lesotho and against control by
foreigners, the Government has pursued a policy through LNDC of requiring
512 equity in 'priority projectsO. Feedback from investors, however
indicates their deep dislike of sharing equity with a government. Indeed a
large pipeline of "priority projects, has, over the years, gone wanting for
substantial investment and development in part because of this problem.
1.40      Wage Policy.  The Government recently increased the minimum wage
by 51Z to restore the purchasing power of wages eroded by inflation and to
provide a 'real' increase in the living standards of Basotho workers.
Investors have indicated that this dramatic change may have eroded
confidence, however, since to plan operations, investors must be able to
count on stable policies. Further, there are indications that the recent
increase may have eroded Lesotho's competitive position vis-a-vis other
southern African countries.
1.41      Industrial Infrastructure in Lesotho is not adequate.  Electric
connections and installation of telecommunications are subject to serious
delays which frustrate investors and delay commencement of their
operations. Indeed, the provision of basic infrastructure is an essential
element of an attractive investment environment which is frustrated in
Lesotho partly by lack of financial resources in the relevant institutions,
and partly by disagreements between the Lesotho Telecommunications
Ccrporation (LTC) and the Lesotho Electric Corporation (LEC), on one hand,
and LNDC, on the other, regarding cost sharing, construction standards and
the timing of availability of planning information regarding industrial
eqtate occupancy.



- 12 -
H. Government and Bank Strategy 8/
1.42      Although industrial sector growth has been dramatic, weaknesses
in the policy environment and institutional structure have contributed to a
quality of investment which is not optimal from a longer term development
perspective. The Government and IDA have jointly developed a strategy
focused on policy reforms and expanded access to financial and investor
services intended to diversify and deepen output and the export base. In
this strategy a strong emphasis is placed on the development of small and
medium-scale indigenous enterprises. An Industrial Sector Strategy Paper
has been discussed and agreed with the Government as the strategic approach
to be taken in the proposed and future projects in the sector. The
principal strategy elements to be supported by the proposed project are
discussed below.
Policy Reform Program
1.43      Policy reforms to address distortions, disincentives and
regulatory bottlenecks are needed to improve the environment for private
investment as the basis for the investment promotion focus of IDA
assistance. A principal objective of the policy reform program would be to
eliminate the costly tax holiday system and at the same time eliminate
costly regulations which incentives are intended to compensate.
Beneficiary Assessments (BAs) and a Joint IDA/GOL Mid-term Review of the
strategy based in part on the BAs would e aluate investor attitudes as the
basis for additional and ongoing reforms.
Promoting Foreign Investment and Linkages
1.44      In the medium-term a focus on foreign investment is necessary,
given the low state of development of Lesotho's indigenous
entrepreneurship. GOL's challenge will be to attract further foreign
investment through provision of adequate industrial infrastructure (i.e.
serviced factory shells) and active investment promotion efforts.
Investment promotion would (a) focus on diversifying the sources and
subsectoral composition of investment, (b) emphasize Lesotho's
attractiveness in terms of labor-intensive production and its preferential
access to the growing RSA market and to other export markets, and (c)
develop programs which deepen linkages within the economy.
1.45      The recommended investment promotion strategy capitalizes on
Lesotho's current ability to attract labor intensive export-oriented
industry. Over time, as project interventions lay an appropriate
groundwork, investment promotion would emphasize introducing higher value
added industry, industries linked to the agricultural base of the country,
8/ The Lesotho Ind&strial Sector Strategy Paper is circulating as a separate
document.



- 13 -
and export-oriented industries 91. Reforms in the agroindustrial
subsector would lay the groundwork for development of viable agriculture
based industries. Skills training programs would improve the quality and
availability of key skills in the economy as the basis for labor-intensive
production.
1.46      To promote development of linkages between indigenous
enterprises and foreign firms, it is recommended that a 'patrons' and
"mentor program be established which would match foreign companies with
local firms in an ongoing advisory relationship. The programs are intended
to improve the capacity of indigenous entrepreneurs to play a
subcontracting role -- linkages which would contribute to deepening of
Lesotho's industrial base. This building of indigenous production
capacity, transfer of technology and market knowledge would ensure
industrial continuity should external motivations and trade factors, which
drive foreign investors, change.
Development of Small and Medium-scale Indigenous Enterprises
1.47      Strategy in this area is intended to redress the presently high
dependence of the industrial sector on large and mainly foreign-owned
companies. The large number of potential new business opportunities opened
up by the LHWP provide an excellent opportunity to launch a new Business
Advi3ory and Promotion Service (BAPS) to encourage the emergence and
expansion of independent entrepreneurs. There already exist degrees of
cooperation between various institutions in the country which support
indigenous investors. However, there is presently no arrangement which
pools information about the various support services which could be made
available to meet the needs of different small businesses. Therefore a
central function of the BAPS would be to provide a "one stop' service to
link these operations and enhance awareness of their different functions.
BAPS would also maintain intelligence about the industrial demands coming
from larger companies including contractors to the LHWP.
Expanded Access to Financial Services
1.48      The Lesotho Financial Sector Report recommended a strategy that
builds on existing strengths of Lesotho's financial sector. Principal
objectives are to:
(a) increase access by small and medium-scale enterprises to
financial services by (i) supporting project- (versus
collateral-) based lending through Lesotho's commercial banks
and (ii) supporting LNDC's development of an equitylventure
capital capacity to fill a void in Lesotho's financial system;
91 The advantage to exporting firms of locating in Lesotho will continue even
after sanctions against the RSA are removed, since preferential market access
is reserved for low-income developing countries, which the RSA is not.
Le6otho's access to both the RSA and other markets will become even more
important if a post-apartheid regime in South Africa improves the economic
opportunities and purchasing power of the huge black South African market.



- 14 -
(b) improve the incentive structure with emphasis on policies that
encourage more competitive banking practices. It was
recommended that low-yields offered on long-term treasury bonds
be increased to reflect market rates offered on South African
bonds and that the tax-exempt treatment on treasury bills be
eliminated. These reforms would remove distortions that
discourage the mobilization of term resources and more
aggressive lending practices;
(c) eliminate subsidized interest rate policies by financial
institutions, and use the subsidy elements of concessional
funding to finance improved services for the establishment of
viable businesses;
(d) ensure sufficient supervision and regulation of the banking
system to cope with the greater risks ensuing from more
aggressive lending and the introduction of new financial
instruments; and
(e) reorient the activities of LNDC, LADB and BEDCO intended to
improve their performance consistent with their comparative
advantage in the financial system.



- 15 -
II. PROJECT RELATED INSTITUTIONS
A. Introduction
2.01.          The project addresses the objective to promote industrial
and agroindustrial investment by providing term finance and equity funding
and by strengthening and expanding services in several industrial and
financial institutions (see Chapter III). The main institutions involved
in the project are discussed below.
2.02      Only institutions appraised as being creditworthy would
participate in the line of credit component (paras. 3.07 and 3.08). These
include Lesotho Bank, Standard and Barclays Banks. The Lesotho National
Development Corporation (LNDC), Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank
(LADB), and Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO), which are
not presently eligible to participate in the line of credit because of
weaknesses in their capacity to manage lending operations, nonetheless play
valuable roles in Lesotho's industrial and financial sectors. Aspects of
their operations in which they have comparative advantages relative to
other institutions will be improved under the project institutional
strengthening program focused on: (a) reorienting LNDC's activities toward
equity venture capital financing and investment promotion; (b)
restructuring LADB's weak operation in preparation for its overall role in
commercial banking (not just agriculture banking) in the future; and (c)
eliminating BEDCO's lending activity and reorienting it toward provision of
factory and workshop space and project preparation assistance to SMEs.
LNDC and LADB's potential participation in the credit line is strictly
conditioned on their undertaking resource-mobilization and other measures
to put their credit operations on a viable and sustainable basis.
B. Institutions Participating in the Line of Credit
The Central Bank of Lesotho (CEL)
2.03      The Central Bank would manage the project-supported line of
credit, supervise commercial bank training, and implement financial sector
policy reforms. The Central Bank has accepted the financial sector
strategy discussed in para. 1.48 and detailed in the Lesotho Financial
Sector Report, and will play a lead role in its implementation. To that
end, CBL management is committed to removing key distortions in the pricing
of treasury bills and long-term bonds, which constrain the mobilization of
term resources and reduce Banks' incentives to lend to private projects
rather than to the Government.
2.04      The Central Bank organization includes a Board of Directors, and
four key departments: Operations, Supervisory Setvices, Research, and
Internal Audits. Within the Operations department a Development Finance
Division manages the Export Finance and Guarantee Scheme as well as other
potential donor-operated credits. Its staff consists of a Manager, a
Credit Guarantee Officer, a Credit Policy Officer, and an advisor (financed



- 16 -
by the International Trade Center of UNCTAD). The staff have degrees in
economics and business administration, and all have strong experience in
project finance, appraisal and general banking. The DFD has successfully
established the Export Credit and Guarantee Scheme and educated Banks and
exporters on its operation. DFD would undertake a similar information
dissemination and training role under the project. To date it has handled
the review, monitoring of accounting, disbursements and repayments for
MUO.O million in export credits.
2.05      CBL has a comprehensive legal mandate with respect to bank and
insurance company supervision on the basis of the Central Bank of Lesotho
Act and the Financial Institutions Act, 1973. 1/ CBL's Supervisory
Services department receives monthly reports from the commercial banks, the
LADB, and the housing finance corporation (LBFC). These data tend to be
economic rather than prudential, although supplemented by profitability
information. However, no data are collected on portfolio quality, and the
profitability data are not particularly informative. As a result, off-site
surveillance has previously had difficulty detecting early indications of
deteriorating performance. Currently, on-site inspection is nonexistent.
CBL management recognizes, however, that institutional strengthening in
this important area is important. In 1989, an IMF financed Bank
Supervision adviser was hired to build up the skills of local staff. With
this assistance, it is expected that the Department will develop on-site
inspection capability and improve the prudential quality of reported
information. The first on-site inspection is expected to take place in
late 1990. CBL is judged to have the capacity to adequately monitor the
performance of financial institutions participating in the project and take
remedial actions as required to maintain their creditworthiness.
2.06      Given the strictly administrative and monitoring role that the
Development Finance Division is to play in the project, there is no issue
of conflict of interest between the Central Bank's supervisory/regulatory
function and its participation in the project.
Participating Banking Institutions
2.07      Lesotho Bank, Standard and Barclays Banks are all highly
profitable, earning in 1989 returns on average assets of 4.4Z as a group.
Lesotho Bank's return was 4.12 and Standard's return was 5.4Z. Lesotho
Bank, 10OZ Government-owned, is the largest commercial bank with total
assets at end 1989 of M432.2 million, representing approximately 60Z of
total commercial bank assets. Standard and Barclays share the remaining
40? of the market and are about equal in the size of their operations. The
banks are managerially independent, well-staffed, organizationally adequate
and operate according to sound commercial principles. Each have carved
market niches within Lesotho's financial sector as follows:
1/ These acts stipulate financial ratio ,.d requirements that are to be
followed by financial institutions. These stipulations pose no burdensome
reserve or other requirements on the banking system.



- 17 -
2.08      Lesotho Bank (Annex V) focusses on local business and the second
tier of foreign-owned business. Lesotho Bank has also taken a prominent
development role by serving small savers and enterprises, as well as
Basotho households. In addition, the bank has developed a Projects Unit to
promote and finance manufacturing projects. Rather than emphasizing
collateralized lending, this unit is more concerned with the underlying
viability of a project af;d in monitoring the project's cash flow to ensure
that debt obligations can be covered. The Projects Unit emphasizes
educating customers in financial matters, as this is perceived as a serious
constraint to meaningful industrial development in Lesotho. The Unit has
critically appraised over 50 projects and funded 19, totalling M6.5 million
over the 18-month period starting in early 1989. All lending has been at
market rates. The average loan size is M209,000 (US$78,000) although loans
as small as M8,000 (US$3,000) have been granted. A training assessment of
Lesotho Bank (financed by the Project Preparation Facility) recommended
short-and-long-term courses in appraisal, portfolio monitoring and project
supervision. Training (managed by the bank's Personnel and Training
Department) would be at all staff levels of the bank with the intention of
expanding project-based lending to the branches. Lesotho Bank's objective
is to increase access to financial resources by non-traditional bank
clients, with indigenous-ovned enterprises being a principal focus.
2.09      Barclays Bank in Lesotho is a full branch of its British parent.
Its focus is on large corporate clients. Standard Bank is also a branch of
its London parent. It is the oldest bank in Lesotho and retains its
historical role as banker to the Government, handling the Government
payroll and acting as a clearing bank through the RSA interbank clearing
house. Perceived as unduly conservative and having heavy collateral
requirements, these banks operate according to standards set by London.
Hence, they have not shown interest in the higher-risk lending pursued by
Lesotho Bank. In addition, the availability of tax exempt government
securities has provided them with a highly remunerative source of income.
With the availability of high-yield treasury bills diminishing as a means
of investing liquid resources, the objective of the project line of credit
is to support these banks in pursuing a more aggressive lending policy by
encouraging project lending activities.
C. Institutions Participating in the Equity Fundina,
Investment Promotion and Industrial Infrastructure Components
The Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI)
2.10      Objectives and Role.  MTI is responsible for formulating
industrial policy and services on the Boards of LNDC and BEDCO (responsible
for promoting and servicing, respectively, large and small-scale
enterprises). MTI staff is weak in numbers and in professional experience,
however, and MTI has largely ceded operational responsibility for
industrial development to LNDC and BEDCO. Under the project, this division
of responsibility would largely be maintained, except that MTI's role with
respect to policy coordination and information services for SMEs would be
strengthened.



- 18 -
2.11      MTI's organizational structure consists of two departments (for
Trade and Industry) and is headed by a Principal Secretary (P.S.) who is
responsible for day-to-day management. The P.S.'s responsibilities
include: (a) implementation of programs to generate employment through
export expansion, local trading and commercial activities; (b) enhancement
of the skills and capabilities of the Basotho people; (c) er,oring
provision of assistance and services to the trading/business community; and
(d) ensuring that the objectives and interests of the sector are well
elaborated and implemented through legislation and policies. These
responsibilities and the active leadership role played by the new P.S. in
coordinating inter-institutional arrangements call for the Ministry's lead
role in the project.
2.12      In line with policy decisions giving priority to development of
small- and medium-scale industries, MTI service delivery to these
enterprises has been strengthened with the creation of a Small Industries
Division within the Department of Industry. The Division works directly
with a UNIDO Technical Adviser (contracted to the end of 1990). Staff
consists of three relatively inexperienced professionals being trained by
the UNIDO adviser. The unit has carried out a baseline survey of S1Es and
also has prepared SME projects for submission to the Lesotho Bank. Through
this project preparation assistance, the unit has become recognized by
entrepreneurs as a starting point for service delivery.
2.13      Although MTI's regulatory and licensing requirements are not
serious burdens to SMEs, no systematic incentive, training, or service
programs support the indigenous enterprise sector, such as support foreign
and larger enterprises. Under the proposed project, MTI would become
responsible for oversight of the Business Advisory and Promotion Service
(discussed below), which would coordinate information about business
opportunities, training, financial, and advisory services for small and
medium-scale enterprises. The analytical support provided by the Small
Industries Division would be the basis for identifying SME needs to be
addressed by BAPS.
2.14      The Principal Secretary would be responsible for administering
the Small Business Development Fund (SBDF) -- a technical assistance and
training fund -- established to support improvement of the skill level of
entrepreneurs and professional staff in SME support institutions.
Assistance also would be available to NGOs that provide training and
promotional support for SMEs. It is anticipated that the following
institutions would be interested in participating in the fund: Women's
World Banking, Women in Business, the Lesotho Chamber of Commerce, the
small business development unit of the Lesotho Highlands Water Authority,
and the Business Training Center of the Ministry of Education.
2.15      Women entrepreneurs would also be promoted under the SBDF.
For example, Women's World Banking and Women in Business, both in the
process of establishing operations, would have access to the fund on the
basis of well-defined proposals to establish information and advisory
centers and workshop and seminar programs for women entrepreneurs.



- 19 -
2.16      To increase competition in the development of industrial land,
the Government has agreed, as part of the policy reform program, to grant a
tract of land to the MTI. Land would be leased to indigenous investors for
up to 60 years, and subleased to foreign investors for 40 years.
Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC) (Annex IV)
2.17      Objectives and Role.  As the principal institution responsible
for industrial development, LNDC (formed in 1967) was given wide-ranging
powers in project promotion and financing and for assisting foreign
investors to set up in Lesotho. LNDC makes equity and loan investments in
medium- to large-scale enterprises, encourages foreign investment (joint
venture formation), and provides industrial sites and premises. In recent
years, LNDC has been investing in real estate such as shopping centers,
commercial buildings, factory premises for rental; few equity investments
have been made. Although understandable in terms of maintaining income
(the shopping centers and the brewery subsidiary are high earners), this
tendency, combined with the emphasis on supporting foreign investment in
tfootloose" industries, has led to some questioning of the focus of the
corporation's activities.
2.18      LNDC is not empowered to accept deposits and has relied on
Government grants and concessional loans which have been onlent at highly
subsidized interest rates of 82-13Z. It recently explored the possibility
of raising resources through a bond issue. However, given the high yields
on treasury bills with which bond rates must compete, the cost of raising
funds in this manner was considered too high to permit profitable
operations. The Government has made a commitment to remove the tax
exemptior. on treasury bills, which would effectively permit an
appropriately priced LNUC bond issue.
2.19      The Lesotho Financial Sector Review recommended that LNDC
reorient focus toward promotion and toward providing industrial space and
equity finance. To this end, the Cabinet amended the LNDC Act to permit up
to 402 equity holding by the private sector, a step intended to broaden
LNDC's resource base, and support the provision of equity finance. The
proposed project will support LNDC in its evolving role.
2.20      Organization, Management and Staff.  LNDC comprises a staff of
about 50, in four departments and an office of internal audit. The Second
IDA Credit to LNDC financed a five-year training plan, including advanced
degree courses in economics and business administration and specialized
courses in project evaluation, project management, financial management and
professional accounting. LNDC has made significant progress in all aspects
of its operations. Systematic project appraisal is now undertaken for all
loan and equity projects and for lease contracts. The quality of the
analysis and information presented is good.
2.21      LNDC has adequate standard formats for share subscription, loan,
guarantee and lease agreements. Its procurement procedures require
competitive bids on purchases of plant, machinery, buildings, and civil
works. Equity investments are disbursed only after independent auditors



- 20 -
have certified that all partners have paid in their portions of tlhe
subscriptions. LNDC's Operations Manual details its operational
procedures, which are satisfactory.
2.22      LNDC has made significant improvements during the past two years
in financial planning and control. A detailed annual budgeting exercise
now enables LNDC to assess the costs of running its programs and
departments and to project operating revenues and deficits. Long-range
resource planning is weak, however, with control and profit center
accountability the principal weaknesses. LNDC's accounts consolidate all
activities and thus make it difficult to identify each activity's
profitability and cash flow. Strengthening LNDC's institutional structure
will require redefining each of its operations as a financial cost or
profit center.
2.23      Financial Performance.  On a consolidated basis, LNDC has become
an increasingly profitable institution, with net profits (after provisions)
having grown from MO.378 million in 1985 to M3.5 million by 1989.  Its debt
to equity ratio is satisfactory at 0.9:1 (1989). However, LNDC has three
lines. of business where performance varies: direct lending, real estate
operations, and the equity/investment portfolio. Large parts of LNDC's
operations run at a loss (lending) or inefficiently (real estate).
overall, operations are heavily cross-subsidized by the vastly profitable
equity portfolio, which the brewery, a protected monopoly, dominates by
contributing 80? of dividends. Indeed, a principal management issue,
highlighted by a review of LNDC's financial performance, is the extent to
which the very profitable Brewery investment masks LNDC's institutional
problems. These include the absence of clear lines of authority and
accountability.
2.24      LNDC has a direct lending portfolio of M10.6 million, which
represents 17.5Z of the Corporation's total assets of M60.4 million. This
portfolio suffered an operating loss of about MO.656 million in FY89.
After debt repayment the loss was M1.0 million -- a negative 12.4? return
on assets applied to lending. The principal contribution to this poor
performance was the very low gross financial margin of about 31, compared
with operating expenses of about 9?. This mismatch between margins and
expenses is due to LNDC's policy of passing funds to subborrowers at highly
subsidized rates. This policy does not even begin to cover costs or
provide a basic return on assets. An additional problem is that 32Z of
LNDC's portfolio is affected by arrears.
2.25      LNDC is uncreditworthy at present to participate in the line of
credit component because of the poor perfermance of the loan portfolio.
LNDC's participation in the project line of credit is conditioned on
putting its lending operation on a viable and self sustaining basis. At
appraisal, LNDC management made a commitment to review with other donors
the obstacles to onlending funds at market rates of interest. Recently
interest rates were raised significantly to 16.5?. However, it is unlikely
that this measure alone will be adequate to cover costs, risk, and leave
margin for profit.



_ 21 -
2.26      Real estate operations, with M41 million in applied assets,
represent nearly 70t of LNDC's total assets. In VY89, the cash flow on
this portfolio was about M713,000 for a return of 1.72 -- a highly negative
return in the face of 14Z inflation. Performance on its industrial
estatelfactory shell portfolio (which represents 70? of gross revenue on
real estate operations) is affected by LNDC's mandate to attract and
promote foreign investment in competition with other countries in the
region which subsidize factory shell rentals for investment promotion
purposes. Consequently, LNDC's factory rental rates do not adequately
provide for the costs of operation plus a reasonable profit. Despite the
low rental rates, weak management of this portfolio has resulted in only
85? of rentals due being collected. The timely provision of electricity,
telecommunications and other infrastructure has been a constraint to the
effective management of LNDC's industrial estates as part of its overall
investment promotion efforts. In other respects, factory shell design and
construction standards are adequate and assisted by an Irish government
financed advisor. Maintenance programming and implementation are also
sound.
2.27      LNDC's investment/equity portfolio, which is the smallest of its
operations in terms of assets applied, has shown the most positive
performance, with investments in a mixture of explosive growth companies
and companies with slow growth or failure. The FY89 return on this
portfolio was about 34?; M3.07 million in cash generated by dividend
payments represented 112Z of LNDC's total cash generation of 12.76 million.
This good performance positions LNDC to manage the equity mutual fund
(venture capital) component unde. the proposed project.
2.28      Investment Promotion.  LNDC's early industrial promotion efforts
focused on food and agro-industries, textiles, clothing, wood and
furniture, engineering, electrical and construction and had some success.
However, after 1985, the investment climate in Lesotho changed markedly
with the intensification of sanctions against the RSA. During this period
foreign investment significantly rose as investors began coming into the
country on their own initiative. This new foreign investment was dominated
by low value-added, somewhat footloose, industries such as clothing
manufacture which have nonetheless substantially contributed to job
creation.
2.29      Despite its success, three principal weaknesses characterize
LNDC's investment promotion. First, active promotion efforts have largely
ceased; investment is primarily from RSA investors and textile
manufacturers. Second, for all intents and purposes, LNDC has substituted
active investment promotion and investor services with "project reviews.
This has contributed to the third weakness, which is investor
dissatisfaction over the conflict of interest between LNDC's role as
provider of investor services and its role as investor itself. This
conflict of interest developed from LNDC's insistence on majority ownership
of resource-based industry. The recent Diagnostic Review of Lesotho's
investment environment recommended that Lesotho provide unbiased services
to investors regardless of their need or interest in an equity investment
or in an LNDC factory shell.



- 22 -
2.30      To correct these weaknesses the project would support renewed
investment promotion to diversify sources and types of investment and to
deepen linkages with indigenous investors and the country's agriculture and
other natural resources. To that end, the Lesotho Investment Promotion
Center (LIPC) would be established within LNDC, to provide unbiased
services and information to all investors. The Government would make
tracts of land available for private development so that investors would
have access to both land and factory shells without having to go through
LNDC's lengthy review procedures. Also, investment promotion literature
would be amended to indicate that Government or LNDC equity participation
in resource-based and strategic industries is available and tailored to the
investor's needs. Organization of LIPC is discussed below.
Lesotho Investment Promotion Center
2.31      Organization, Management and Staffing.  LIPC would be
established as a semi-autonomous unit within LNDC with a special
subcommittee on the Board of Directors responsible for its work program,
budget approval and supervision. Its organizational structure would
include: Promotion and Services Section, Public Relations, Research, and
Donor Relations Section.
2.32      Staffing of the new unit will be from the existing New
Industries Subdivision and from new recruitment. The Director of the
Center will be the current New Industries Subdivision Director. The
Section Heads of Research, Public and Donor Relations will be from existing
staff. The LNDC staff member responsible for services to investors will be
reassigned to the Center.   The new recruitment will be for three
professionals for the Promotion and Services Section (including a senior
staff member as Head of the Section) and one junior staff member for the
Public Relations Section.
2.33      The Promotion and Services Section will be responsible for
investment-generating activities and investor services, by focusing on the
RSA, Europe and the Newly Industrialized Countries (NICs) and the U.S. (It
is estimated that the NICe, Europe and the U.S. will generate about 100
site visits a year.) In terms of investor services, this unit will provide
investment counseling, expedite the processing of applications and permits,
provide post-investment services, work on linkages between promoted foreign
firms and local suppliers, and foster their participation in the small-
scale industries "patron" and "mentor" programs. This unit will have four
professionals. The Public Relations section will be responsible for image
building activities and for developing and disseminating promotional
materials, an investors' guide and newsletters. It will also host general
promotion missions from abroad. The unit will have two professionals. The
Research Section will support both promotion and public relations by
maintaining a data base on the Lesotho market and economy and by preparing
policy papers on the effects of policy changes on the investment
environment. The unit will have one professional. Donor Relations will
coordinate aid from abroad.



-  23
2.34      In the first three years of operation, LIPC will have a
technical assistance agreement with an experienced investment promotion
organization, to be financed by the project. LIPC will receive advisory
support for the LIPC Director, staff training in investment promotion
techniques and management, and specific assistance to support establishment
of the organization. It is projected that during the five-year project
period LIPC will be responsible for the creation of about 3,500 jobs, which
is consistent with industrial job creation in recent years. The principal
effect of the renewed investment promotion effort should be over time to
diversify types and sources of investment and to emphasize subsectors with
higher value added and greater linkages with Lesotho's economy.
2.35      Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability.  Investment promotion is
typically criticized because links between promotion efforts and actual
investments made are not always apparent. Promoted investments may take
three to five years before they are realized. However, the initial years
of the promotion effort would be supported by IDA and donor funds to ensure
a sustained uninterrupted effort. Eventually, LNDC will need to decide
whether the activities of LIPC are worth further support. To support
LNDC's decision, two methods will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of
the investment promotion effort under the project:
-   First, an annual progress report will be required from LIPC and
sent to its Board and to IDA for review; and
*    Second, a Beneficiary Assessment will be carried out after the
second year of the project and at the end of the project to
assess investor attitudes about LIPC services and Lesotho's
investment environment.
Business Advisory and Promotion Service (BAPS)
2.36      Background.  Promotion of indigenous entrepreneurs is currently
performed by a multitude of institutions. However, it is argued that all
the services are badly organized, coordinated and delivered to the
beneficiaries and lack sustainability because they are inadequately or
intermittently financed by donors. The poor development performance of
indigenous enterprises and the absence of backward linkages and sub-
contracting arrangements are evidence of weaknesses in the system. Absence
of linkages comes from lack of knowledge of possibilities, and lack of
assistance for technical, marketing and other improvements. This point has
become particularly clear in the context of the LHWP.
2.37      Obiectives and Functions of BAPS.  No arrangement currently
pools information about the various support services that could be made
available to meet the needs of various small businesses. Therefore, the
first function of BAPS would be to provide an information service.  In
addition, it would maintain intelligence about the industrial demands from
larger companies, including contractors to LHDA, and the potential
industrial and commercial supplies available from Basotho businesses. To
this end, BAPS will establish information centers in the Lesotho Chamber of
Commerce and in other SME meeting points.



_ 24 -
2.38      The number of exploited opportunities that BAPS might be able to
identify would be increased over time, by the following activitiess
*    Promoting awareness of business possibilities for small
businesses, through brochures, newspaper advertisements, village
seminars, etc.;
*   Maintaining up-to-date information about the nature of the
resource requirements of the LHDA and the larger companies and
defining and publicizing sub-sets of those requirements that
might realistically be met by Basotho enterprises;
*    Identifying sources of tecbnical advice to remedy technical
weaknesses in particular companies, including, in the case of
the larger of the small companies, assistance in the
identification of foreign technical partners;
*   Assisting small companies identify consultants to support their
marketing and their promotion to larger companies;
*    Identifying potential sub-contracting consortia in particular
sub-sectors along the lines of the Lesotho Highlands
Construction Consortium established in November 1988;
*    Identifying, in collaboration with the Lesotho Investment
Promotion Center foreign firms that can act as *patrons' to
small-scale enterprises by providing them information on sub-
contracting opportunities and by assisting them in upgrading
their technological capabilities; and
*    Identifying local senior business persons that assist and advise
small enterprises in a *mentor' program.
2.39      Organizational Arrangements.  BAPS would be established within
MTI with a large degree of day-to-day independence from the Ministry.
Since the justification for its existence depends strongly on its
management and supervision of existing institutions and the unique
opportunity offered by the Highlands Water Project, its management and
staffing would have sufficient stature to permit it to work closely with
LHDA. BAPS would need regular and detailed information about LHDA and LIPC
activities in order to advise its Basotho clients. The new service would
be expected to contribute to the project pipelines of both the LNDC and the
Lesotho Bank and, with the LIPC, would play an important part in justifying
the credit and equity line components of the proposed IDA project.
2.40      Staffing.  The unit will be staffed by one senior person who
will be the director of BAPS, and two additional staff members, all
recruited by BEDCO and seconded to BAPS.  MTI will assign to BAPS its own
staff members who provide small-scale industry services. The new unit will
be directly under the P.S. and will be governed by the management
committee.



- 25 -
2.41      Because coordinated promotion, advisory and informational
support to indigenous enterprises is a new function in Lesotho, a
concentrated package of technical assistance and staff training will be
provided for the full 5 year project period in an effort to ensure the
strong establishment of the program.
2.42      Financing and Budgets.  BAPS has no financial base to ensure its
long-term sustainability. Therefore, a fee system would be designed for
BAPS-arranged services and training. Client fees would maintain the aspect
of client-driven demand to ensure the quality of BAPS operations.
Following the project, further Government support for BAPS would be
determined on the basis of its effectiveness, as evaluated in the
Beneficiary Assessments.
D. Institutions Participating Only in the Institutional
Strengthening Component
Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank (LADB) (Annex VI)
2.43      LADB was established as a wholly government owned bank.  It has
grown into the primary source of agricultural and agroindustrial finance--
its rapid growth having been encouraged by international donor agencies who
used the bank as a pipeline for rural credit. Recently LADB has undertaken
a rapid branch expansion program intended to extend depositor services to
rural areas. The bank now has nine full service branches, twelve agencies,
three offices, with more planned. Until three years ago, the LADB was
funded chiefly with non-deposit resources. Then deposits increased ten-
fold over two years and more than doubled again in 1988. The loan
portfolio more than tripled between 1986 and 1989. The down-side to this
expansion has been the rapid increase in overhead expenses. Further, the
expansion has not been matched by the development of appropriate internal
infrastructure, including adequately trained staff, information and control
systems. Particularly, strengthening is needed in the areas of credit
management, financial control, internal audits and data processing to
assist in the installation of a management information system on LADB's new
IBM system.
2.44      LADB's recent business record has been poor and its financial
performance is not characteristic of a viable going concern, with the
Government's equity being rapidly exhausted. LADB has recorded losses for
the past four years. The return on assets in 1988 was -2.5Z, and the
return on equity was -14.4Z. Equity eroded from 82.62 of total assets in
1983 to only 17.5X in 1988. If additional provisions on its loan
portfolio, equivalent to more than 21? of the outstanding loans are needed
to clean up the portfolio, LADB would become technically insolvent. The
principal reasons for this poor performance are:
(a) the high proportion of operating costs to average total assets,
a ratio that stood at 14.31? in 1989 (compared to a 3.7? ratio
in Lesotho's commercial banking system) and is due to increased
overheads from expansion in the branch network;



- 26 _
(b) Staff training costs, which amounted to more than 6Z of
operating expenses in 1989, as compared to nil in 1988 when they
were financed by donor funds; and
(c) the high administration costs and risks (provision for losses)
associated with agricultural lending.
2.45      The project-supported institutional strengthening program for
LADB is based on the Financial Sector Review's recommendation that LADB
should suspend !ts expansion activities and undertake correction of its
financial and institutional weaknesses. LADB is considered worthy of
support for several reasons: first, because it provides valuable financial
services to previously unserved rural areas -- as evident in the explosive
growth of deposits accompanying its expansion program. Second, the bank's
management has shown a commitment to correcting weaknesses. For example,
the branch expansion has been halted, and interest rates on lending have
been raised above prime to 21.52. Third, the regular loan portfolio shows
a relatively favorable recovery rate of 85Z. And, finally, the Financial
Sector Review identifies LADB as an important source of competition to the
established banks, and encourages its evolution into a commercial bank.
2.46      The measures already implemented (including the comprehensive
staff training program) lay the groundwork for a substantial improvement in
LADB's financial performance, and management projects a profit for fiscal
year 1990/91. However, to achieve sustainable long term viability, LADB
needs to strengthen institutional capacities and to develop internal
infrastructure and controls. Further LADB is unlikely to achieve viability
as a specialized agricultural bank because of the high transactions costs
and risks associated with this sector. The project institutional
strengthening program for LADB would be focused on developing a Strategic
Corporate Plan to put the management and finances of the institution on a
viable basis and for broadening the institution's focus to include
commercial banking activities.
Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO) (Annex VII)
2.47      BEDCO was established in 1975 as a parastatal under the
supervision of the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI), with the objective
of establishing and developing Basotho-owned business enterprises. It now
operates according to the BEDCO Act of 1980 and regards its task as
assisting local small-scale entrepreneurs.
2.48      BEDCO has about 86 staff members employed in three principal
organizational groupings: (a) Loans and Projects, (b) Business Extension
Services, and (c) Operations, which includes administration of estates,
common workshops, bulk purchasing and selling, technical services, and
internal administration. In addition there is a financial controller and
an internal audit department. All evaluation reports strongly criticize
BEDCO's weak management and very high rate of staff turnover. A recent
evaluation indicates that only about 20 of BEDCO's staff have any technical
or professional qualifications or experience.



- 27 -
2.49      BEDCO's operations and financial performance have been poor in
all areas. The institution has failed to reach the targets originally set,
in terms of number of enterprises assisted and jobs created. Clients are
dissatisfied with the quality of BEDCO's extension ard advisory services.
It has experienced a 70X default rate in its loan program; in any case,
performance was curtailed by highly subsidized interest rates. While its
industrial estate operations are an important and unique service, highly
subsidized rental rates and an abysmal collection record have further
contributed to the institution's poor financial performance. In the past
BEDCO received substantial financial support from the Canadian
International Development Agency, ODA (U.K.), and the World BanklIDA (the
first Lesotho industrial credit). However, most donors have withdrawn
support; since 1987 they have not assisted BEDCO in any significant way.
The World Bank/IDA did not include BEDCO as a beneficiary in the Second
LNDC Credit, largely as a result of IDA's dissatisfaction with the handling
of the small credit component (US$ 0.3 million) in the first IDA credit.
Annually BEDCO receives Government grants averaging MO.5 million to cover
operating losses. Annex VII shows the performance by each of BEDCO's lines
of business.
2.50      Given other institutions' better ability to provide certain
services to SHE clients, BEDCO will not be reorganized or strengthened in a
wholesale way. Instead, its activities will be streamlined and refocused
on those areas where BEDCO has a comparative advantage vis-a-vis SME
clients.  The principal facets of this reorientation, which will be
supported by the project institutional strengthening program, are as
follows:
-    BEDCO lending operations will cease, and future credits will be
channeled through the Lesotho Bank;
-    BEDCO's provision of industrial and workshop space is an
important service to enterprises and a potentially important
financial base to sustain BEDCO's operations. To that end there
is a need to strengthen financial management, including the
setting of rental rates at levels to recover costs and a
reasonable return, strengthening of debt collection and rental
payment performance, with clearer tenant eligibility criteria
and implementation of a tenant eviction program for non-paying
clients, and financial management of construction and management
of new industrial estate space; and
*    Project Preparation capacity will be strengthened to assist
entrepreneurs prepare viable bankable projects for submission to
Lesotho Bank and possibly other banks.



- 28 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01      The proposed project was identified in 1987 as a follow-on to
the Second Lesotho National Development Corporation Project (Cr. 985-LSO)
and the IFAD-financed Agricultural Marketing and Credit Project (Cr. 55/63-
LE). Those projects focused on encouraging industrial and agroindustrial
development through the provision of term finance. The proposed project
approaches industrial development from a broader perspective, i.e.
addressing not only financial but also institutional and policy constraints
that inhibit industrial investment, especially by indigenous small- and
medium-scale investors, and includes the important aspect of investment
promotion. The multi-part approach, guided by a comprehensive strategy for
industrial development (para. 3.03), is particularly appropriate, given the
objective of capturing benefits from the Lesotho Highlands Water Project
for long-term economic development. The narrow window of opportunity
presented by construction of the LHWP means that in some cases the ideal
market solutions cannot be immediately implemented and that interim
measures must be undertaken. However, project design and conditionality
lay the groundwork for market solutions for the medium-term.
3.02      The first preparation mission took place in October/November
1988. A Project Completion Report on the Second LNDC Project was completed
in April 1989. Both highlighted the dearth of sectoral knowledge and the
need to integrate the activities of LNDC and of other non-bank financial
institutions into a coherent financial and industrial sector development
strategy. As a result, preparation studies have included a financial
sector review, a diagnostic review of Lesotho's investment environment, a
review of the tax incentive framework, a review of agro-industrial
comparative advantage, and a study on manpower planning and skills
development.
3.03      Through intensive dialogue on the basis of this body of work,
IDA has taken the lead in developing with the Government a comprehensive
program of policy reforms, investments and institutional strengthening to
increase industry's role in employment generation and for overall economic
development. An Industrial Sector Strategy Paper has drawn together these
studies' key findings and recommendations and will guide this and future
project interventions in the sector. The policy dialogue is well advanced
and several key policy reform measures have already been voted into law.
As a result IDA is well positioned to support the proposed project.
B. Proiect Obiectives and Design
3.04      The principal project objective is to encourage private foreign
and indigenous investment in the industrial and agroindustries sector with
a focus on diversifying investment into higher value added industries
(particularly agriculture-based industries), deepening linkages between the
formal industrial sector and SMEs, and supporting indigenous investors'



- 29 -
ability to take advantage of opportunities created by construction of the
Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP). The project also supports an
improved enabling environment for this investment with some policy reforms
in the industrial, agroindustrial and financlal sectors to remove
distortions, disincentives and regulatory bottlenecks which impede
efficiency and private investment.
3.05      The project reflects a multifaceted approach to achieving this
objective with four principal interventions as follows:
(a) financial interventions through as a line of credit and an
equity fund to increase access to loan and equity finance by
indigenous enterprises, including SMEs and women-owned
businesses, agro-industrial enterprises, and private industrial
estate developers;
(b) industrial infrastructure to ensure the timely availability of
electricity, telecommunications, water, road and other
infrastructure to LNDC industrial estat*s and factory shells --
a critically important service required by foreign investors;
(c) agro-industrial development underpinned by a focused subsector
reform program to encourage private investment in the sector,
and improve the efficiency of the large parastatals by
supporting their operation on a commercial basis and their
eventual privatization; and
(d) institutional strengthening and training activities to financial
ead industrial sector institutions intended to improve their
capacity to support and promote industrial development.
Promotion activities would aim to deepen linkages between
foreign and indigenous enterprises and attract investment in
higher value added industries.
C. Proiect Description
3.06      The proposed project would provide funds to finance five main
components: (a) a line of credit; (b) an equity fund for venture capital
investments; (c) agro-industrial development; (d) industrial
infrastructure; and (e) institutional capacity development.
(a) Line of Credit
3.07      M12.5 million (US$4.7 million) would be provided to encourage
project-based term financing for fixed asset investments, associated
incremental working capital to viable industrial and agro-industrial
enterprises and export projects, and for the private development of
industrial land. The line of credit would be targeted to, though not
restricted to, non-traditional bank clients. Targeting procedures are
dealt with in subproject appraisal criteria and in PBI agreements (Chapter
IV). The objective is to increase indigenous borrowers' access to
investment finance by reducing transactions costs and risks associated with



- 30 -
this type of lending. To that end, bank clients would receive assistance
from the Business Advisory and Promotion Service (BAPS), which would
coordinate information about training and advisory assistance for
preparation of business plans and loan applications and for implementation
of projects. Bank staff would be trained ir. project appraisal and
portfolio monitoring techniques tc support the greater analytical and
supervisory attention required by term project lending.
3.08      Funds would be channeled through the Central Bank of Lesotho and
administered by its Development Finance Division (DFD), according to the
terms of a subsidiary loan agreement. CBL would onland this amount in
local currency to eligible banking institutions, which include Lesotho Bank
and Standard and Barclays Banks on the basis of actual loan approvals and
agreed eligibility criteria. Onlending to subborrowers would be in local
currency at the prevailing market rate of interest. At the time of
appraisal (February 1990), the prime rate stood at 202. LNDC and LADB
would be eligible to participate in the component if they meet disbursement
conditions related to putting lending operations on a viable basis and own-
resource mobilization. Funds would be onlent from the Government to the
Central Bank at the onlending rate to PBIs minus one percent to cover CBL's
costs of administering the component. Onlending from the Central Bank to
the Participating Banking Institutions (PBIs) would be at a rate initially
set at the average cost of term deposits. As interest rate distortions are
corrected, which should permit banks to raise their own term resources, the
onlending rate to the PBIs would be periodically reviewed and adjusted to
ensure that it does not represent a disincentive to the PBIs mobilizing
their own term resources. Funds would be onlent to the PBIs with the same
maturities as the individual subloans to final beneficiaries. Subloan
terms to beneficiaries would range from a minimum of two to a maximum of
twelve years, inclusive of grace periods of up to three years. The Central
Bank may subsequently re-lend repaid amounts to PBIs for similar purposes
in line with the objectives of the project, through its rediscounting
mechanism for up to 15 years. Chapter IV on Project Implementation and
Management presents detailed disbursement conditions, operating mechanisms
and subproject eligibility criteria.
(b) Equity Financing and Venture Capital
3.09      LNDC has already established a Mutual Fund called Lesotho
Investment Holdings (LIH). LIH would be reactivated under the project with
the operation of small equity fund of M5.0 million (US$1.9 million). The
objective of establishing the proposed fund is to fill a gap in Lesotho's
financial markets and thereby alleviate a key constraint to the development
and expansion of viable SMEs. Eligibility criteria (para. 4.14) are
designed to reach small- and medium-scale enterprises. LNDC has developed
a list of potential contract and spin-off opportunities related to the
Lesotho Highlands Water Project. Opportunities range from construction
materials supply through catering and transportation services, and many are
ideally suited to the indigenous SME sector. In addition, subcontracting
opportunities with larger manufacturing companies will be actively fostered
under the project. Equity financing, and the managerial advice and support
available from LNDC, as the mutual fund manager, are expected to facilitate
development of these investment opportunities. In the medium term, sale of



- 31 -
shares to the public from the mutual fund would be the mechanism for
divestiture of mature investments and for the sale of other LNDC
investments. As such the mutual fund would ie a first step in the
establishment of a capital market and a liquidity and resource mobilization
mechanism for LNDC. Para. 4.12 explains the mechanism by which LNDC would
act as an agent of the Government in administering this component. As an
agent, it would not bear associated risk or repayment responsibility.
(c) Agroindustrial Development
3.10      The project would support the commercial operation and eventual
privatization of agroindustrial parastatals. The project would finance
27.5 manyears of performance based (related in part to profits) management
contracts and associated training to strengthen the management and
performance of four agro-industrial enterprises after their incorporation
as autonomous companies. Assisted companies would be the National Abattoir
and Feedlot Complex, the Poultry Hatchery, the Milk Processing Plant and
Collection Centers and Lesotho Poultry Cooperative Society. These
companies' production show their potential economic efficiency with low DRC
ratios and represent important outlets for a majority of farmers'
production. The principal issues affecting these companies' operations and
proposed remedial technical assistance are discussed in Annex II. The
total cost of the management contracts and training program would be M12.2
million or US$4.6 million for a two-year period, which compares favorably
with M26.6 million or US$10.6 million the GOL currently transfers to the
parastatals annually to cover their operating losses.
3.11      Four management consultant contracts would be executed with
professionally qualified and experienced consultants. TA would be provided
at an average cost of M414,300 or US$165,720 per manyear. After the second
year, the management contracts would be extended using the firms' own
funds. Therefore, it is expected that all firms supported by the project
would eventually be financially able to hire their own contract management.
Excluded from the TA program would be the Flour-Maize Mill and Feed Mill
Complex (FMMFM) and the Brewery, which are currently efficiently managed.
FMMFM would also be subject to privatization, and LNDC would be expected to
sell a significant minority of shares from the Brewery to the LIH equity
mutual fund. Bidding contractors would be judged inter alia on the basis
of their definition of a corporate and financial plan for the given
agroindustry.
3.12      Consultants bidding for contracts to manage the agroindustries
would also include proposals to provide staff and management training. The
performance of the contract management would be measured by, among other
things, success in implementing a staff training program. The total cost
of the training program is estimated at M775,000 or US$290,000. The
project would provide a total of 27.6 staff years of training at an average
cost of M30,900 or US$12,360 per staff year.
(d) Industrial Infrastructure
3.13      M6.7 million (US$2.5 million) would be provided to finance
equipment and civil works for road, electricity, water and
telecommunications infrastructure necessary to service LNDC industrial



- 32 -
estates. Lending from GOL to LNDC would be at the World Bank rate of
lending plus 102 of that rate. LNDC would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Approximately M2.6 million would be used for infrastructure upgrading and
extension of the Maseru West industrial estate which will service up to
27,000 sq. meters of factory space. In addition, the component would
finance an expansion of the Thetsane estate which will service up to 45,000
sq. meters of factory space. The total cost of infrastructure for this
expansion would be M4.0 million. Design work is expected to be completed
for commencement of works by March 1991. As part of its decentralization
efforts future LNDC estates are planned at Mafeteng and Ha'Nyenye to be
financed with internally generated resources and donor funding.
3.14      While there are no substantial issues related to the established
standards of construction for road, telerepmmunications and water
infrastructure, there are substantial disagreements between LEC, LNDC and
other end users regarding standards and costs of electricity bulk line
connections. Accepted standards of construction for a country such as
Lesotho indicate that average cost of bulk line electricity connections
should be about $20,000 per kilometer. LEC currently designs substantially
higher standards which may be excessive and inconsistent with a least cost
provision of this utility accounting for the trade-off between capital and
maintenance costs. A review of existing studies on standards would be
undertaken under the project and agreement with IDA reached on appropriate
standards to be applied. Conditions of disbursement for this component
would be agreement with IDA on (a) a formula for cost sharing for main
distribution lines between the end users and LEC and LTC, respectively; and
(b) procurement arrangements and construction standards for utility
networks.
'e) Institutional Capacity Development
3.15      A total of 35.5 manyears of advisory and training assistance at
an average cost of US$132,000 per manyear would be provided under this
component for a total cost of M12.5 million (US$4.7 million). The
technical assistance and training component are discussed below.
3.16      Promotion of industrial investment would involve (a)
establishment of the Business Advisory and Promotion Service (BAPS) in the
Ministry of Trade and Industry to coordinate policy and information about
business opportunities and privately provided advisory and training
services to indigenous enterprises; (b) establishment of the Lesotho
Investment Promotion Center (LIPC) in LNDC to provide one-stop investor
services to foreign and larger enterprises (including the leasing of
industrial land for private development); (c) a twinning arrangement with
an experienced investment promotion authority would provide advisory
support and training to BAPS and LIPC; (d) two beneficiary assessments to
gauge investor attitudes about the investment environment and quality of
services offered by LIPC and BAPS would be carried out during the third and
fifth years of project implementation; and (e) studies to be identified in
the Beneficiary Assessments and the Mid-Term Review would provide the
analytical basis for additional policy measures needed to improve the
investment environment.



_ 33 -
3.17      A manpower and skills development subcomponent would support the
promotion strategy focused on Lesotho's comparative advantage in labor-
intensive industry. Skills development would be supported by: (a) a Small
Business Development Fund to support improvement of the skill level of
entrepreneurs and of professional staff in SME support institutions.
Women-focused organizations such as Women's World Banking, Women-in-
Business, and the National Council for Women would be eligible for
financial support for their training and seminar programs; and (b)
strengthening and expanding in-service training and skills-testing programs
collaboratively designed by businesses and the vocational and training
education (VTE) system.
3.18      The institutional capacity of financial sector institutions
would be strengthened as follows:
(a) Training in bank management, project appraisal and loan
portfolio management for Lesotho Bank, LNDC, LADB, BEDCO, and
the Lesotho Manufacturers Association;
(b)  Support for the reorganization and reorientation of BEDCO
activities with a focus on the provision of industrial space and
on the provision of project preparation assistance. The project
vould finance two long-term technical advisors in Financial
Management and Project Preparation for two years each;
*c) LNDC would be provided three technical advisors for one year
each in management accounting and information systems, property
management, and credit and equity portfolio appraisal and
management. Task-oriented advisory assistance would establish
the marketing plan for operating the LIH equity mutual fund,
preparation of a prospectus and other documentation for floating
a bond issue and for selling shares of LIH, defining an action
plan for putting lending on a viable basis, and improving
management of industrial estates. These advisors would carry
out their assignments during intermittent short-term visits,
when they would establish systems and train staff; and
(d) LADB would be provided three long-term technical advisors for
two years each in the areas of credit and portfolio management,
internal audits, and a financial controller. A short-term
advisor would be provided for the 3stablishment of a management
information system. Tasks would include development of a
Strategic Corporate Plan of Action for the institution's future
development, carrying out a complete external audit and
strengthening systems and procedures in internal budgeting,
portfolio management, internal audits and information
management.
D. Policy Reforms
3.19      During project preparation policy issues identified in Chapter I
were discussed with the Government. As the basis for the investment



- 34 -
promotion focus of the project, it was agreed that key distortions and
regulatory aspects affecting investor confidence and costs of establishing
in Lesotho should be addressed. The Government has shown substantial
commitment to adjusting the policy environment and has already implemented
important reforms including:
(a) abolishing the tax holiday and the Pioneer Industries Board and
replacement of the current system with a constant 15? tax rate for
manufacturing companies. Companies enjoying the tax holiday could
choose to continue the holiday and move to the currently prevailing
37.5? tax at the end of the holiday; or they could begin to pay tax
at the low rate for the life of their investment in Lesotho. This
system has great potential to expand the revenue base and increase
tax collections. It notably reduces administration involved in the
investment process and, in introducing a stable incentive, it has the
potential to change the character of investment coming into the
country;
(b) removal of the tax exemption for treasury bills to bring treasury
bill pricing in line with returns on alternative investments such as
lending. Removal of this distortion :!ould reduce the crowding out
effect of bank financing for the government deficit. It also
increases the scope for the issuance of appropriately priced bond or
other instruments by institutions such as LNDC in its effort to
mobilize its own resources; and
(c) repeal of the policy requiring LNDC majority ownership of resource
based industry. Future investment promotion literature would be
amended to indicate the availability of equity financing from LNDC
and the total flexibility about the level of the equity/joint venture
contribution. The policy should improve the possibility for LNDC's
pipeline of projects to iind financing as government control of the
investment would not threaten investors coming to the country.
3.20      The Government has provided assurantces that it would maintain
these policies and that it would implement additional reforms by June 30,
1991 as followss 1/
3.21      Land Availability for Private Sector Development.  To open
competition with LNDC for industrial land development, the Government
would allocate an adequate sized tract of Lndustrial land for private
sector development. Indigenous developers would be eligible for 60 year
primary leases as provided by law. Foreign investors would be eligible for
standard subleases up to a 40 year term. Finance for site development
would be available from the line of credit component.
3.22      Minimum Wages.  For the future, the Government would review
minimum wage levels and make adjustments in small discrete steps taking
account of Lesotho's competitive position in the region. The objective of
1/ The Government indicated commitment to these measures by presentation to
tha appraisal mission of a policy matrix (Annex X).



- 35 -
this measure is to ensure that Lesotho maintains its attractiveness as a
low-cost production site for labor-intensive products consistent with its
need to generate employment for its rapidly growing labor force.
3.23      Work Permits.  The Government would implement the following
changes in the granting of work permits (a) automatically grant work
permits for the General Manager, the Financial Manager and the Production
Manager for two years; (b) link progress in implementing training programs
to subsequent renewals of permits; and (c) provide for one automatic
renewal and subsequent renewals only upon submission of a program of
training and/or progress in promoting local staff to key positions.
3.24      Industrial Infrastructure.  The Government under the leadership
of the Principal Secretary for Ministry and Trade would form an Investment
Promotion Committee to coordinate and supervise the provision of services
to industrial estates. Each responsible authority (Lesotho Electric
Corporation, Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation, the Ministry of Public
Works, and LNDC) would be required to submit plans and cost estimates for
providing existing and planned industrial estates with necessary services.
Disagreements over costs, cost sharing, and construction standards would be
mediated and agreed between the parties and with IDA.
Agroindustrial Subsector Reforms
3.25      Policy reforms in the industrial sector generally are more in
the nature of fine-tuning to improve the cost-effectiveness of policies and
institutions. Reforms in the agroindustrial sector are targeted at a broad
array of policies that currently distort economic efficiency and inhibit
private investment. Privatization is to be implemented after project
assistance has returned the parastatal agroindustries to viability.
3.26      At negotiations the Government agreed to implement the following
measures. By October 30, 1991: (a) elimination of existing subsidies,
price and import controls, Government grants and budgetary transfers. and
implementation of a policy requiring full cost recovery on operations of
the agroindustrial parastatals; (b) introduction of measures to put
operations on a commercial basis, including gradewise pricing for inputs
and a reject-grade for inferior products offered by farmers; and (c) the
parastatals being assisted under the project would be registered under the
Companies Act, with full autonomy and accountable to their respective
Boards of Directors. By April 1, 1993: negotiations would be finalized
for private-sector (local and foreign) participation in each registered
company with agreement by the Board of each company and the private sector
participant.
Financial Sector Reforms
3.27      Consistent with Lesotho's basically sound, market-oriented
financial sector, correction of a remaining non-market policy would improve
the incentive to mobilize long-term resources. At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that by October 31, 1991 it would pay market
yields on long-term treasury bonds.



- 36 -
E.  Cost Estimates
3.28       Total project costs, including contingencies for the non-credit
components and taxes and duties, are estimated at M67.5 million (US$25.3
million) with 812 in foreign exchange. Annex VIII shows detailed project
cost estimates. Because of the nature of project investments, no physical
contingencies have been used. Price contingencies are calculated on base
costs (excluding the credit component). 21
3.29       The following table summarizes the estimated costss
Table 8.1: Pro]ect Cost Summary
Project Component              Local  Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total  X FE
(laloti millions)         (US mlillIong)
A. Financial Sector
Component.
-Investment Credit        6.4   12.5    18.9       2.4      4.7      7.1   e8x
-Equity Financing         1.6    6.1      6.7      0.6      1.9      2.6   761
Subtotal                 8.0   17.6    26.6       8.0      6.6      9.6   8eX
B. Investment Promotion
Components
-Lesotho Investment
Promotion Center         1.9    1.8       8.5      0.7     0.6      1.8   46X
-Business Advisory and
Promotion Service        0.8    0.6      1.8      0.8      0.2      0.5   40X
C. Skills Tralning and
Trade Testing               0.2    1.1      1.8      0.1      0.4      0.5   801
D.  Agro-Industries Component
4Management Contracts     -      11.6    11.5      -        4.8      4.8   1001
-Trainins                 -       0.8     0.8      -        0.8      0.8   100X
Subtotal                 0.0   12.8    12.8       0.0      4.6      4.6   100X
E.  Technical Assistance
and Training                0.0    11.0    11.0      -        4.1      4.1   100l
F.  Benoteicary Assesment
and Studies                 0.0    0.5      0.5      -        0.2      0.2   1001
a.  Industrial Intrastructure   1.8    6.7      8.0      0.6      2.5      8.0   83x
Base Cost                      12.2   51.8    68.6       4.6    19.2    23.8   81X
Price Contingencies             0.5    8.5      4.0      0.2      1.8      1.5
Total Project Cost.            12.7   54.8    67.5       4.8     20.6    26.8   81X
F. Financing Arrainnements
3.30         The following table details the proposed financing plan.  All
foreign exchange costs and US$0.5 million in local costs would be funded by
IDA. There is no project cofinancing. Project sponsors would finance
US$1.4 million or 162 of the total cost of subloans and investments made
under the investment credit and equity financing components. The PBIs
would finance US$1.5 million or 202 of the total cost of subloans made.
2/ The following price contingency rates are used: Local Costs - 1991
(15.02); 1992-3 (14.02); 1994-5 (13.02); Foreign Costs - 1991 (4.71);
1992-3 (4.6Z); 1994-5 (4.72).



- 3i -
The Government would finance US$0.3 million of local costs related to the
skills training and establishment costs of the BAPS. LNDC would contribute
US$0.6 million to equity investments and to the costs of existing staff
which would be transferred to the LIPC.   LNDC would also contribute US$0.5
million to the costs of infrastructure development for its Industrial
estates.
Local       Foreign     Total
---- US$ (millions) -----
Financing Plant
IDA                                     0.5          20.5       21.0
Project Sponsors                        1.4            0.0       1.4
LNDC                                    1.1            0.0       1.1
PBIs                                    1.5            0.0       1.5
Government                              0.3            0.0       0.3
Total                                   4.8          20.5       25.3
G. Environmental Impact
3.31      With assistance from the Bank, the GOL has been developing a
national environmental action plan, which will identify the country's main
environmental problems and call for an inventory of current development
activities capable of addressing them. To implement the plan, the GOL
intends to establish a National Environmental Council with a secretariat to
coordinate the development of sectoral guidelines for environmental
protection. The process is underway to develop national and sectoral
environmental guidelines and review procedures.
3.32      Projects to be financed through the line of credit and equity
line, or projects to be promoted by BAPS or LIPC, would be evaluated, as
appropriate, by the investment committees or the boards of the responsible
institutions to determine whether the investment project entails any
potential environmental impact. For projects that are found to have
environmental side-effects, varying levels of environmental assessment
would be carried out, and the project design would include measures to
mitigate problems. Projects where the environmental impact shows
unacceptable environmental damage that cannot be mitigated adequately would
not be eligible for financing or services under the proposed project.
Additional design preparation costs needed to mitigate environmental damage
would be borne by the project sponsor. Once the National Environmental
Council has become operational, PBls would submit annually their lending
program to the Council's Secretariat for review. World Bank support would
be provided during project supervision for establishing environmental
review processes (at the national level) for the lending agd investment
programs of financial institutions.
3.33      Aspects of the proposed project are expected to contribute
directly to environmental improvement. Of note is the agroindustries
policy reform package, which includes the introduction of grade-wise
pricing and permission for the abattoir to reject unacceptable animals. It
is expected that this will strengthen the concept of the economic value of
livestock, reduce the concept of livestock numbers alone as a measure of



- 38 -
wealth and status, and lead to a reduction of overgrazing and uneconomic
land management.
B. Procurement
3.34      A review of Lesotho procurement practices found that procurement
regulations and procedures are compatible with Bank Guidelines. However,
slow project implementation is due in part to lack of experience with
procurement activities. This problem will be addressed by hiring a short-
term consultant prior to project effectiveness to assist implementing
agencies with the preparation of bidding documents and with consultant
evaluation and selection. In addition, the project launch, which will take
place during the first supervision mission (January 1991) will include a
workshop by a bank procurement specialist to train staff in consultant
evaluation and procurement procedures which represents the bulk of project
procurement.
3.35      The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods
of procurement are summarized below.
Table 3.2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(USS Millions)
Project Element                         Procurement Method             Total
ICB/LCB        ILS          NA
Investment Credit
and Equity                    --             --          9.6             9.6
(6.6)          (6.6)
Equipment and Vehicles         1.4            0.6         --              2.0
(1.4)         (0.6)        --             (2.0)
Civil Works                    --             --          1.2             1.2
__            __         (0.7)           (0.7)
Consultancies, Studies,
Training                     --             --          9.7            9.7
__            __         (9.7)           (9.7)
Other (Recurrent Costs,        --             --          2.8             2.8
refund, PPF Advance, and                               (2.0)          (2.0)
unallocated contingies)
Total                       1.4            0.6       23.3            25.3
(1.4)         (0.6)      (19.0)          (21.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit
3.36      Under the line of credit and equity financing components (40Z of
project costs) regular commercial procurement by private enterprises is
regarded as efficient and economic. Aggregate amounts under each type of
procurement are not known a priori for subprojects and investments. PBIs



- 39 -
would assure themselves that sub-borrowers had canvassed the main sources
of supply and had chosen appropriately. PBI appraisals would cover the
procurement procedures used, and PB1s would maintain records of the
procurement processes in subproject implementation. The same procedures
would apply to goods procured on the basis of financing from the equity
fund component. ICB would not be used for these components since
subproject size under the project cannot exceed $0.5 million equivalent
(para. 4.05).
3.37      For the establishment of LIPC and BAPS there would be about
US$0.2 million of office equipment and vehicles. For these items at least
three quotations would be obtained using the method of International and
Local Shopping (ILS). Records of bids and procurement for these items
would be kept by LNDC and the project coordinator in MTI for review by IDA
missions. Procurement for the infrastructure development component would
be as follows: civil works for electricity, telecommunications, water and
roads, would be contracted respectively from LEC, LTC, the Department of
Water and the Department of Public Works as a matter of law. Prices for
civil works originate from standard unit construction prices. E-quipment
and materials for infrastructure would also be provided by these agencies.
However, they have agreed to utilize International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) to the greatest extent possible. Lots would be made as large as
possible to attract the maximum numbers of potential bidders. Packages are
not expected to exceed US$300,000, and it is expected that about US$400,000
of equipment and materials for this component would be procured on the
basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers using the method of
ILS.
3.38      Procurement of management contractors and consultants would be
according to Bank Guidelines and Procedures. In all cases, selection
criteria would be based on the qualifications and experience of the firm
and on the quality of the technical proposal. Financing (budgets and
price) would be given secondary consideration in the evaluation process,
except for the investment promotion twinning contract arrangement where it
would not be a factor (given the central role played by this component in
achieving project objectives). All contract awards for consultants and
training would require prior IDA review and approval. In all cases, terms
of reference have been drawn (Annex IX). The Government has requested Bank
assistance in finalizing consultant shortlists. Letters of invitation to
submit proposals would be sent by December 1, 1990 and consultant selection
would be completed shortly after credit effectiveness, by March 1991.
Component specific arrangements are as follows: Agroindustries Development
- Consultants would be procured for four management and training contracts
averaging US$1.2 million each. Details on the estimated cost of each
contract is contained in Annex VIII. Investment Promotion - Two contracts
totalling US$1.7 million would be awarded respectively for the twinning
arrangements for BAPS and for LIPC. Procurement of other Technical
Assistance for institutional strengthening and studies would be managed
under separate contracts by the beneficiary institution and is discussed in
para. 4.18.



- 40 -
I. Disbursement
3.39      A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$150,000 was
approved by IDA on March 3, 1989. It will be refinanced upon credit
effectiveness.
3.40      The disbursement schedule for the IDA credit is given in Annex
VIII, Table 10 and shows that funds would be disbursed over six years,
largely reflecting the disbursement profile for Lesotho. The Central Bank
would serve as disbursement and collection agent for credits granted
through the participating banks.
3.41      To expedite disbursements under the project, the Central Bank
would open two Special Accounts: one for the overall project and one for
the proposed line of credit. The accounts would be managed by the
Development Finance Division. IDA would make initial deposits of US$1.8
million and US$0.8 million equivalent in the general and line of credit
accounts at the Central Bank. These sums represent about four months of
disbursement requirements. Applications for replenishment of the Special
Accounts would be accompanied by appropriate supporting documents,
including a reconciled bank statement.
3.42      Withdrawal applications would be submitted to IDA by DFD with
full supporting documentation, except for payments against contracts with a
total value of less than US$100,000 for which reimbursement could be
claimed on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs). All expenditures
made under the line of credit and the equity line shall be made under SOEs.
Documents in support of SOEs would be retained by the Development Finance
Division of the Central Bank and would be available to IDA for inspection
during supervision missions.
3.43      Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
(a) Line of Credit: 802 of eligible subloans disbursed by the P8Is;
(b) Equity Line: 100? of equity funds invested by LNDC in qualifying
projects;
(c) Technical Assistance, Training and Studies: 100? of foreign and
local expenditures;
td) Infrastructure Development: 1002 of foreign expenditures for
goods and services and 802 of civil works;
(e) Training under Small Business Development Fund: 1002 of total
expenditures; and
(f) Vehicles, equipment: 100S of foreign expenditures if imported
directly and 85X of local costs if procured locally.
3.44      The final date for submission of subloan and equity investment
proposals for IDA's approval would be December 31, 1994. The expected
project completion date would be December 31, 1995. The closing date for
disbursement would be June 30, 1996, in accordance with the expected
disbursement profile.



41
J. Accounts and Audit
3.45      Participating banks (under the line of credit component), LNDC
(under the equity line component), LIPC and BAPS (under the investment
promotion component), and the entities receiving technical assistance would
maintain separate project accounts. The project coordinator and accountant
appointed by the Ministry of Trade and Industry would be responsible for
coordinating the presentation of these accounts for IDA supervision
missions. They would also be responsible for preparing the accounts for
inclusion in the annual project progress reports. The capability of the
MTI comptroller was evaluated at appraisal and found to be generally
adequate. He will receive training from IDA's Loans Department in Bank
disbursement procedur s and further training in project accounting during
project implementation.
3.46      The Auditor General is responsible for coordinating the audits
of parastatals and government ministries. Audit work is subcontracted to
private consulting firms, among which some of the major international firms
are represented. At negotiations. assuranccs were obtained that (a) the
accounts of project entities (to include tle PBIs) would continue to be
audited by the Auditor General whose audit; are acceptable to the Bank:; (b)
the audits would cover SOEs as relevant . .d would include specific comments
on SOEs and the use of funds from the Special Account; and (c) within nine
months of the close of each financial year, the audited annual financial
statements, together with the full auditor's report, would be submitted to
the Bank. LNDC, LADB, BEDCO and the companies participating in the agro-
industries component would be expected to submit audited accounts to IDA.



- 42 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Line of Credit Component
4.01      Apex Administrative Responsibility.  The Development Finance
Division of the Central Bank would be responsible for (a) administering the
project credit line; and (b) evaluating the adequacy of banks' appraisal
standards and consistency between subprojects submitted for refinancing
with eligibility and selection criteria (para. 4.04). DFD would play an
accounting and administrative role and would not be involved in credit
reviews or decision-making. DFD would submit quarterly reports on the
operation of the credit line, identify weaknesses in the quality of sub-
project preparation and make recommendations to the commercial banks on how
to correct weaknesses. DPD would also handle the establishment and
management of the project Special Accounts.
4.02      The DFD would also supervise administration of the project
financed bank training component to ensure that all interested and
qualified bank staff participate in the various management, appraisal, and
portfolio monitoring modules as appropriate to their responsibilities.
Lesotho Bank's Personnel and Training Department would actually administer
the training component, including the screening of training proposals and
submission of disbursement applications to DFD. At negotiations,
assurances were provided that by March 30 of each year, this Department
would submit to the Association a training plan for training in bank
management, project appraisal and supervision.
4.03      Operating Mechanism end Credit Management.  Subloans granted
would normally finance up to 802 of the total project cost for existing
enterprise subprojects. 'While in exceptional cases, up to 90Z of total
project cost could be financed, in no case should the debt coverage ratio
be less than 1.2:1. For new enterprise development projects, where risks
are higher and where it is desirable to limit the debt to equity ratio, the
debt coverage ratio should not be less than 1.4:1. Disbursements would be
made against 80 of the loan made by PBI. It is anticipated that as banks
gain experience and profitability with project term financing that they
would mobilize increased levels of term resources as a basis for future
project investment lending.
4.04      Sub-Project Eligibility and Selection Criteria.  Although the
target of the project is non-traditional bank clients, the eligibility of
larger enterprises is not precluded. However, through its promotional
facilities and training for bank branches, the project will place greater
emphasis on expanding access to the banking system for indigenous
enterprises. Subsectors eligible for financing would include agribusiness,
mining and quarrying, all manufacturing, construction, transport and
commercial services. Given the important role of microenterprises, there
would be no required lower limit to the scale of enterprises eligible for
financing under the credit.
4.05      Subprojects would normally have to meet the following criteria,
although exceptions would be considered on a case-by-case basis:



- 43 -
(i)       Subloans not to exceed US$0.5 million equivalent;
(ii)      Positive appraisal of the firm/project technical
viability, market analysis, managerial capacity,
and ability to manage significant adversities;
(iii)     Incremental cash flow analysis leading to a financial
internal rate of return (FRR) calculation with a rate of
return hurdle no less than the interest rate on the loan
contract; in addition, a summary cash flow analysis to
indicate the firm's viability and ability to service its
debt; and
(iv)      For subloans above US$100,000 equivalent, current and
projected balance sheets and income statements would be
required, along with financial ratio analysis, including
liquidity, debt service coverage, leverage and earning
ratios.
4.06      Project Preparation.  Potential beneficiary firms will undertake
initial preparation of subprojects. They may seek assistance from the
African Project Development Facility of the IFC (headquarters in Nairobi).
BEDCO and HTIs Small Industries Division would provide project preparation
assistance, and BAPS would provide contacts between consultant advisors and
indigenous enterprises for project preparation, business plan development
and other specialized business advisory assistance.
4.07      Sub-Project Appraisal.  PBIs would review the subprojects in
accordance with their own loan analysis procedures. The appraisal
evaluation would cover relevant information about the enterprise and the
proposed investment, including its technical soundness, financial
viability, economic efficiency and managerial capacity. The appraisal
report would also set down loan security requirements. Financial rate of
return (FRR) calculations would be required for all subloans, on the basis
of cash flow analysis, with balance sheet analysis also required for
subloans above US$100,000 equivalent. As Lesotho's economy is relatively
undistorted with few divergences between economic and market prices, no
economic rate of return calculation would be required. Project financed
training of bank staff in project appraisal, portfolio management
techniques, and general bank and enterprise management would commence soon
after project effectiveness. Because this is the first IDA project in
Lesotho involving the commercial banks, the first three subprojects from
each PBI would be subject to prior IDA review and approval. Thereafter,
with the exception of subprojects over $300,000 equivalent, which would
require prior IDA approval, IDA would review a sample of subprojects on an
ex-post basis during supervision missions.
4.08      A condition of effectiveness would be the execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement between GOL and the Central Bank and between GOL
and LNDC. Conditions of disbursement to the individual PBIs would be
execution of a PBI agreement with the Central Bank. The PBI agreements
inter alia would specify (a) the requirement that the participating bank
has established a projects unit with at least one staff qualified in
project appraisal techniques; (b) the subproject appraisal eligibility and
selection criteria detailed in paras. 4.04 and 4.05, (c) debt service



- 44 -
coverage ratios of not less than 1.2:1 for established firms and not less
than 1.4:1 for new enterprises; td) the environmental impact assessment of
subprojects would be undertaken during bank appraisals in accordance with
bank guidelines; (e) the availability of staff training in project
appraisal and portfolio management techniques as a contribution to banks'
developing project-based lending capability; and (f) BAPS and other
government support for monitoring and advisory assistance for subprojects
and loans. Execution of a PBI agreement between the Central Bank and at
least one participating bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed project.
4.09      To support the mobilization of term deposits at Negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that by October 31, 1991, it would pay
market rates for long-term bonds.
4.10      Specific conditions of disbursement to LNDC would be:  (a)
adjustment of interest rates to subborrowers to rates sufficient to cover
costs, risk, and leave some margin for profit for all credit lines
operated; (b) implementation of resource mobilization through a bond issue
or other instrument, and preparation of documentation by December 31, 1991
for this instrument; and (c) submission to IDA of an acceptable action plan
to increase income and reduce costs and improve collection performance on
loan operations to ensure viable operation.
4.11      The condition of disbursement to LADB, would be that it has (a)
implemented its technical assistance program; (b) implemented a viable plan
for its recapitalization; (c) put in place systems adequate to manage its
loan portfolio; and (d) implemented key aspects of its Strategic Corporate
Plan of Action to be developed under the institutional strengthening
component.
B. Equity Funding and Venture Capital Cmponent
4.12      Operating Mechanism.  Initially GOL and LNDC would be the only
shareholders in the LIH mutual fund with purchased investments being the
basis of GOL shareholding. LNDC's shareholding would be from transferring
shares of some of its mature companies to the mutual fund. The Government
would make the proceeds of the equity component available to the LIH mutual
fund without interest charges, and the government would continue to bear
both the foreign exchange risk and the IDA service charge. For a five
percent fee, LNDC would invest these resources on behalf of the GOL as
shares in the enterprise concerned. LNDC would agree to establish (with
support from the proposed project) within the treasury function of the
Finance Department, the professional and administrative capability to
manage an equity/investment fund. On receipt of dividends, LNDC would be
required to pass the funds back to LIH on account to the Government.
Capital gains realized would similarly be passed back to LIH, so that funds
for future investments would be internally generated.
4.13      GOL would have no say in the management and affairs of the firm
as a result of its equity investment. This would be provided for by the
mutual fund arrangement, which is intended to create a screen between the
Government as the source of funding and the enterprise investment. To help
ensure the quality of investments, the first three investments would



- 45 -
require IDA review and approval. Thereafter, IDA would review a sample of
investments on an ex post basis during supervision missions.
4.14      Eligibility and Selection Criteria for Investments.  Eligibility
criteria are based on LNDC Investment Policy Guidelines which are
acceptable to IDA and would ensure that the resources of the Equity Fund
will finance participation in financially and economically viable
industrial projects. The viability of the fund is ensured by the following
additional Capital Limit Guidelines.
(i}    LNDC will diversify the portfolio of investments across as broad
a spectrum of risk levels, economic activities and size of
companies. In so doing, the company will adhere to the
following capital limit guidelines;
(ii)    Single Industry.  Not more than 25S of Fund resources shall be
invested in a single industry as defined under the three-digit
SITC classification. In cases where economic risk categories
are imperfectly defined under the three-digit category, with
Board permission, the four-digit category may be applied;
(iii)    Single Enterprise.  Not more than 102 of the Fund shall be
invested in a single enterprise including affiliated companies
which the Fund controls directly or indirectly. This level may
from time to time be raised to 152 for expansion projects with
approval of LNDC's Board. For investment in new enterprises the
limit shall be 52 for any single enterprise;
Uiv)    Start-Up Companies.  Not more than 252 of the Fund's capital
shall be invested in enterprises classified as 'start-ups". A
company shall be graduated from the position of start-ups after
it has met its projected obligations and production and sales
targets and other realistic measures in an acceptable fashion
for a period of not less than 24 months;
(v)    The Fund will not acquire more than 50X of the voting powers of
a given company unless the enterprise fails to meet its
obligations and thus requires reorganization in the interest of
creditors and/or shareholders.
4.15      Arrangements for Divestiture.  An ultimate objective of the
proposed equity financing scheme is to encourage LNDC's disposal to the
private sector of its own and the Government's shareholdings. Securities
would be based on the cash flow or growth potential of some of LNDC's own
mature subsidiaries as well as the matured companies that have received
equity financing under the proposed project. Although sale of securities
from LIH is a medium-term objective, the Bank and LNDC management agreed
that a first step would be for LNDC to explore the successful investment
trust established in Botswana and attempt to adopt appropriate elements for
Lesotho. The project financed institutional strengthening component would
provide assistance in developing the marketing plan, prospectus, and staff
training to manage the mutual fund. At appraisal, LNDC's project appraisal
capacity was Judged to be adequate.



- 46 -
C. Agro-Industries Component
4.16      The GOL has established a Task force consisting of the Principal
Secretaries from the Ministries of Planning, Trade and Industry, and
Agriculture to coordinate policy related to the agroindustrial parastatals.
At appraisal, the Task Force made a commitment on behalf of the GOL to
carry out the agroindustrial policy reform package. The Task Force would
on behalf of the GOL coordinate implementation of the agreed policies and
institutional reforms in collaboration with the Boards of Directors and
management of the individual enterprises involved in the component.
Specifically, the Task Force would be responsible for (a) drafting terms of
reference and selection of consultants; and (b) supervising the performance
of management contractors and related training, and ensuring that remedial
steps, as necessary, are taken with respect to performance. The Task Force
would also ensure that subsidiary agreements are executed as a condition of
disbursement of the credit proceeds for each individual company. An
additional condition of disbursement is that policy reform measures
affecting the performance of that company have been implemented. The
subsidiary agreements would provide inter alia for (a) implementation of
policy reforms affecting the performance of that company; and (b) the
company operating on a commercial basis with full management autonomy over
pricing, costs and expenditure control, and staffing. Component financing
for management contracts and local staff training would be provided over a
two-year period. Detailed phasing and costing for each of the five
management and training contracts are presented in Annex VIII, Tables 8.5,
8.6, and 8.7.
D. Industrial Infrastructure Component
4.17      The Investment Promotion Committee (para. 3.24) would coordinate
planning and issue resolution related to construction of infrastructure for
LNDC and privately developed industrial estates. A review of existing
studies on construction standards for the electricity network would be
undertaken by this Committee with project support. Recommendations on
standards, a cost sharing formula and timetables for procurement and
infrastructure construction would be agreed with IDA. To support the
timely provision of infrastructure to industrial estates, LNDC would be
responsible for submitting planned needs. LEC, LTC and and the Ministry of
Works would be responsible for equipment and materials procurement and for
performing civil works according to procedures indicated in para. 3.37.
They would also be responsible for adopting construction standards and the
cost sharing formula agreed with IDA.
E. Institutional Strengthening Component
4.18      The Ministry of Trade and Industry would have overall
responsibility for management of this component. With respect to the
twinning arrangement for the Business Advisory and Promotion Service (BAPS)
and the Lesotho Investment Promotion Center (LIPC), technical assistance to
BEDCO, and the skills testing advisor, MTI has already reviewed and
approved Terms of Reference and drawn up a short list of qualified
consultants. Advisory assistance needed by LNDC and LADB for strengthening
lending, property management, equity and overall operations has been



-  47  -
identified by the respecti%3 institutions and reviewed with IDA. The
effectiveness of consultants contracted to provide the assistance would be
reviewed during supervision missions.
4.19      As the basis for project support to strengthen LADE and BEDCO,
at negotiations, the government provided assurances as follows: LADB (a)
by March 1992, the Strategic Corporate Plan of Action would be finalized
and sent to IDA for review; (b) by June 1992, it would be discussed with
IDA and agreement would be reached on key steps to be taken to strengthen
the institutions; and (c) measures would be undertaken necessary to put
LADB operations on a viable basis including, but not limited to broadening
the institution's mandate to include commercial banking. BEDCO (a) by
October 31, 1991 BEDCO would carry out a reorganization consistent with its
new focus on provision of industrial and workshop facilities and on project
preparation assistance to SMEs; (b) implement a cost-recovery rental
policy; and (c) carefully screen SMEs admitted to the industrial estate to
ensure their full-time involvement in an industrial enterprise and the
viability of their business. Funding for the institutional strengthening
components would be provided as a grant by the Government to the relevant
institution.
4.20      The Principal Secretary (P.S.) would establish two management
advisory committees. The BAPS Advisory Committee would be chosen from
representatives from the Ministries of Education, Planning, Employment,
BTC, BEDCO, LHDA and the Chamber of Commerce. It would advise the P. S. on
the policies and procedures for BAPS and review its budgets. It would also
review proposed allocation of funds from the Small Business Development
Fund. The P.S., in collaboration with this committee, would be responsible
for drawing eligibility criteria for disbursements and arrangements for
administration of the fund. Submission of administration arrangements
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of disbursement of funds from this
component. To ensure prompt decision-making, the P. S. Trade would
maintain final approval authority.
4.21      The Land Managment Committee would review and approve
applications for land leases and subleases. The committee would consist of
the P.S.'s of the Ministries of Planning, Trade and Industry, and Interior
(Chairman).
4.22      The Principal Secretary Ministry of Trade in collaboration with
the P.S. Ministry of Planning would be responsible for overseeing two
Beneficiary Assessments which would take place respectively during the
third and fifth years of project implementation. The first assessment of
investor attitudes were carried out during project preparation as the basis
for the design of project components and policy instruments to provide a
more attractive investment environment. The project financed Beneficiary
Assessments would be completed by March 1993 as the basis for the Joint
GOLWIDA Project Mid-Term Review and by December 31, 1995 as the basis for
the Project Completion Report. The BAs would survey the attitudes of
indigenous and foreign investors and would (a) evaluate the impact of
policy reforms and LIPC and BAPs services on investors' attitudes toward
Lesotho's investment environment; and (b) identify areas where progress has
been made and areas of continued weakness. At negotiations, the Government
identified acceptable local institutions with a business orientation which
would be appropriate to implement the proposed survey.



- 48 -
4.23      The component would also finance additional studies and/or
consultancies as the analytical basis for additional policy measures needed
to improve the environment for private sector investment. Terms of
Reference for those studieslconsultancies would be acceptable to IDA.
F.  Overall Proiect Management, Monitoring. Evaluation
4.24      The Principal Secretary MTI would be responsible for overall
project coordination. The P. S. Ministry of Trade in collaboration with
the P. S. Ministry of Planning would be responsible for coordination of the
Mid-Term Review (para. 4.26), for overseeing the Beneficiary Assessments
(para. 4.22), and for coordinating policy discussions among relevant
ministries.
4.25      LNDC, BAPS, the Development Finance Division of the Central
Bank, LADB, and BEDCO and the Trade Test officer in the Vocational and
Technical Education Department would prepare progress reports for their
respective components (summary of operations, use of project funds, and
factors bearing on implementation progress) for submission to IDA not later
than two months after the end of each year.
4.26      The Joint Bank/Government Mid-Term Review would be held in March
1993 to (a) review project progress with respect to institutional and
policy reforms; (b) review the findings and recommendations of the First
Beneficiary Assessment; and (c) agree on an action program for implementing
additional policy measures, analytical studies as the basis for future
reforms, and additional institutional strengthening measures. The IDA
mission aide-memoire would summarize recommended actions for addressing
outstanding issues. Implementing agencies would be responsible for follow-
up to be reviewed by subsequent supervision missions. At negotiations,
Government provided assurances that the Mid-Term Review would be undertaken
by March 1993, and that actions agreed during the Review would be
implemented in consultation with IDA.
4.27      A Project Completion Report (PCR), content and format to be
agreed on with the Bank, would be submitted to IDA within six months after
the project closing date.
G. IDA Supervision
4.28       The project's multi-faceted approach will require close IDA
supervision with inputs from the divisions responsible for industry,
agriculture (agroindustries) and human resources (manpower development).
Task-oriented technical assistance financed by the project will be
incorporated into supervision missions. To support the Government's
capacity to implement the project, the following steps would be taken.
First, procurement of consultants would be assisted by the hiring of a
short-term procurement advisor prior to project effectiveness. Second, the
project launch workshop to take place during the first supervision mission
will inter alia provide intensive training to counterpart staff in
disbursement and procurement procedures and in preparation of related
documents and project accounts. The Government will be responsible for
coordination of all supervision missions and for organizing the Mid-Term



- 49 -
Review. A detailed supervision plan is contained in Annex XI. Key
activities and supervision missions (m) are as follows:
Feb.      1991(m)         Project Launch Workshop
Mar.      1991            Completion of Consultant selection
Oct.      1991(m)         Review implementation of policy measures
Dec.      1991            LNDC preparation of documentation for resource
mobilization instrument
June      1992(m)         Agreement on LADB Strategic Corporate PLan
March     1993(m)         Joint IDA/Government Mid-Term Review
Sept.     1993(m)         Review Progress - Privatization of key
agroindustries
March     1994tm)         Review project implementation progress
Dec.      1994(m)         Review project implementation progress
Dec.      1995(m)         Discussion second Beneficiary Assessment



- 50 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Beneficiaries and Expected Benefits
5.01      Lesotho's industrial and financial sectors are essentially
sound. Project interventions are primarily intended to change the policy
environment and strengthen the capacity of key institutions, and to provide
for the expansion of services to support new investment and enterprise
development.
5.02      The Government of Lesotho would benefit from implementation of
an industrial investment promotion strategy that would enhance economic
growth, improve balance of payment performance, and increase employment
generation. Specific project contributions to these benefits are as
follows.
5.03      The investment promotion components, related policy reforms and
the industrial infrastructure component are expected in the medium term to
diversify the subsectoral composition and change the *footloose" character
of foreign investment by encouraging activities with higher value added and
industries based on agriculture which employs the majority of the
population. The strong export orientation of firms investing in Lesotho,
because of its preferential trade access, should improve the country's
balance of payments performance.   The industrial infrastructure component
would support these objectives by ensuring the timely provision of serviced
industrial estates -- a key investor requirement. Indigenous investors are
expected to benefit from better information, advisory, and training
services to support the start-up of new businesses, no matter how small.
Promotion and development of subcontracting relationships with large
companies is expected to contribute to the transfer of knowledge about
markets, management, and production technology. Abolition of the tax
holiday should substantially expand the revenue base which is currently
non-existent for manufacturing firms. Since a 15Z rate of tax has
approximately the same present value as a 6 year tax holiday followed by a
37.5Z rate of tax, it is expected that investors will prefer the
administrative ease of the low flat rate. Enhanced revenue can then be
used to finance urgent infrastructure and services to support sustained
investment in the sector.
5.04      Components and policy reforms in the agroindustrial sector would
lay the groundwork for private agroindustrial development. In the short-
term this component would provide for the efficient operation of key
parastatals, reduce their drain on the government budget, and expand
markets for high value crops, the result of a more dynamic and efficient
subsector. This should benefit a large number of agricultural households
which comprise the majority of the population.
5.05      The financial sector reforms supported by the project credit
line should pave the way for a generally more competitive and aggressive
banking system, increased access by clients which may have good projects
but no access to financial services, and the deepening of financial markets



_ 51 -
through the introduction of new financial instruments and increased
mobilization of term resources. Introduction of venture capital will fill
a void in Lesotho's financial market.
5.06      The Government has already shown commendable commitment and
action in undertaking needed reforms which have been supported by the
analytical work provided during project preparation. The policy dialogue
and consensus building effort would be maintained during project
supervision using the Beneficiary Assessment process and the Joint IDAIGOL
Mid-Term Project Review to improve understanding of investor's perceptions
and needs. This dialogue would be the basis for an on-going process of
improving the environment for investment.
5.07      The project is expected to result directly through investment
financing and indirectly through promotion of new foreign investment in the
creation of some 3,500 new jobs over five years -- about a 1OZ increase
over average incremental annual industrial employment. BAPS is expected to
serve directly about 500 indigenous investors during the course of the
project, through contract training programs and information and advisory
services. Women in Business and Women's World Banking would receive
support through the Small Business Development Fund managed by MTI.
B. Risks
5.08      Overall Project Risks.  In the short to medium term, Lesotho
must depend upon foreign investment for market knowledge/access, for
technology and information transfer, and for employment generation. The
potential removal of sanctions against the RSA and the consequent impact on
Lesotho's attractiveness as an investment site, as well as the impact of
general political change in the region on Lesotho's investment promotion
efforts, are important risks.
5.09      The risk surrounding the lifting of sanctions is largely
mitigated by the fact that Lesotho's preferential access to markets and low
labor costs still gives it an advantage for export-oriented investors.
From Lesotho, investors have easy access to the large and growing South
African market through the SACU arrangements and to external markets where
preferential (tariff exempt) access is available to Lesotho through the
Lome Convention and GSP arrangements.
5.10      The general political uncertainty in the region and its
potential impact on Lesotho's investment promotion efforts is also a matter
for concern. Lesotho's economic prospects as well as the potential to
realize project objectives are closely bound with South Africa's future. So
far the prospects of political change in South Africa has had a positive
effect on investor attitudes towards the region, but if the process is
prolonged and internal unrest grows, investor attitudes may change. On the
other hand, changes in South Africa's economic development policies away
from heavy subsidies for investors in the "homelands' should enable Lesotho
to compete for foreign investment on more even terms.



- 52 -
5.11      A further risk to Lesotho's investment promotion strategy based
on labor intensive production is the er3ding competitiveness of Basotho
labor in the region with respect to wage rates, skills and productivity.
This risk is being addressed by the project manpower and skills training
program and by policy reforms related to the setting of wage rates.
5.12      The principal risk to the development of financial markets is
that the Government deficit will again crowd out financing to the private
sector and counteract project efforts to promote less conservative and
project-based term lending. This risk is largely mitigated by (i) the
successful expenditure control program being implemented under the PFP
program and (ii) the increased revenue that will follow from increased SACU
receipts from LHWP-related lmports.



- 53 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECONMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached as follows:
Policy Reform Program and General Project:
(a)  The Government would maintain policies already implemented as
follows: (i) replacement of the tax holiday system with a 152 rate
of tax as part of the tax code; (ii) repeal of the policy requiring a
majority LNDC shareholding in resource-based foreign enterprises; and
(iii) removal of the tax exemption on treasury bills. The Government
would undertake additional measures as follows by June 30, 1991: (i)
allocate industrial land for private sector development; (ii)
streamline industrial licensing and the work permitting process for
key management staff and technical experts of foreign companies;
(iii) set the minimum wage to take account of Lesotho's competitive
position vis-a-vis other potential investment sites; and (iv)
coordinate the provision of services and infrastructure to industrial
estates (paras. 3.19 to 3.24);
In the agroindustrial sector:  By October 31, 1991, the Government
would a) eliminate existing subsidies, price and import controls,
government grants and budgetary transfers; and implement a policy
requiring full cost recovery on operations of the agroindustrial
parastatals; b) introduce measures to put operations on a commercial
basis, including gradewise pricing for inputs and a reject-grade for
inferior products offered by farmers; and (c) the parastatals being
assisted under the project would be registered under the Companies
Act, with full autonomy and accountable to their respective boards of
directors. By April 1, 1993, ensure private-sector (local and
foreign) participation in each registered company on a negotiated
basis, agreed to by the board of each company and the private sector
participant (para. 3.25 to 3.26);
In the Financial Sector the Government would agree to pay market
yields on long-term treasury bonds as a means to increase the
availability of profitable investment opportunities for long-term
funds and thereby encourage the mobilization of term resources
(October 31, 1991, para. 3.27);
(b) The Government would agree to coordinate the participation of all
agencies and Ministries to participate in a Joint Government/IDA Mid-
term Review to be held no later than March 1993. Actions agreed
during the review would be implemented in consultation with IDA
(paras. 4.26);
Line of Credit:
(c) The Government would onlend US$4.7 million to the Central Bank of
Lesotho (CBL) at the onlending rate to PBIs minus one percent to



- 54 -
cover CBLs costs of administering the component. CBL may re-lend
repaid amounts to PBIs for up to 15 years (paras. 3.07 and 3.08);
(d) CBL would onlend funds to eligible participating banks at a rate
initially set at the average cost of term deposit funds in the
banking system. The onlending rate to PBIs would be periodically
reviewed and adjusted to ensure that it does not represent a
disincentive to the PBIs mobilizing their own term resources (para.
3.08);
(e) Onlending by the participating banks to subborrowers would be in
local currency at the prevailing market rate of interest. (para.
3.08);
(f) Agreements between the CBL and the participating banks would specify
requirements for the PBIs as follows: (a) establishment of a unit
with at least one staff, qualified in project appraisal techniques;
(b) project appraisals to be carried out according to standard
appraisal criteria including ti) requirement that subloans not exceed
US$0.5 million equivalent; (ii) debt service coverage ratios of not
less than 1.2:1 for established firms and 1.4sl for new enterprises;
and (iii) the environmental impact assessment of subprojects would be
undertaken during bank appraisals in accordance with Bank guidelines
(para. 4.08);
Equity Fund:
Cg) The Government would invest US$1.9 million equivalent in a mutual
fund to be managed by LNDC which would make venture capital
investments in eligible enterprises (para. 3.09 and 4.12);
(h)  LNDC would receive funds without interest charges, and the Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk. Dividends and capital gains
would be passed back to the equity mutual fund (para. 3.09 and 4.12);
(i) Investments would be made by LNDC based on its Investment Policy
Guidelines and according to capital limit guidelines to ensure
diversification and fund viability. (para. 4.14) and (b) LNDC would
establish within the Treasury function of the Finance Department, the
professional and administrative capability to manage the
mutual/investment fund (para. 4.12);
Agroindustries Development:
(j) Government would onlend US$4.6 million to finance management
contracts and management and staff training for the National Abattoir
and Feedlot Complex, the Poultry Hatchery, the Milk Processing Plant
and Collection Centers and Lesotho Poultry Cooperative Society (para.
3.10);



- 55 -
(k) Agreements with individual enterprises would provide for (a)
implementation of the policy reforms affecting the performance of
that company; (b) the company operating on a commercial basis with
full management autonomy over pricing, cost and expenditure control
and staffing (para. 4.16);
(1) The Agroindustries Task Force, consisting of the Principal
Secretaries of Planning, Trade and Agriculture would have
coordination and management responsibility for the policy reform
program and project assistance to parastatals under the project
(para. 4.16);
Investment Promotion:
(m) LNDC's participation in the investment promotion component to be as
follows: (a) the LIPC would be established as a department level unit
with a separate subcommittee of the Board to be chaired by the P.S.
Trade and Industry with strong private sector representation; (b)
investor service would be provided on an unbiased basis even for
investors not needing an LNDC factory shell or equity participation;
(c) LIPC would undertake a revision of investment promotion
literature to indicate the various policy changes agreed to be
implemented and the completely flexible policy regarding the level of
equity participation in resource based industries (para. 2.30);
Institutional Strengthening and Training:
(n) By March 1992, the LADB Strategic Corporate Plan of Action would be
finalized and sent to IDA for review; and by June 1992, it would be
discussed with IDA and agreement would be reached on key steps to be
undertaken necessary to put LADB on a viable basis (para. 4.19);
(q) BEDCO would by October 31, 1991 (i) carry out a reorganization
consistent with its new focus on provision of industrial estate and
workshop facilities and on project preparation assistance to SME's
(ii) implement a cost recovery rental policy and (iii) carefully
screen SME's admitted to industrial estates to ensure their full-time
commitment to their enterprise and the viability of their business
(para. 4.19); and
(r) Lesotho Bank's Training Department would (a) by March 31 of each
project year prepare and submit to the Association a training plan
for training in bank management, project appraisal and supervision;
(b) manage training on behalf of the PBIs and other financial
institutions; and (c) make application to IDA on behalf of the
commercial banks for training (para. 4.02).
6.02      Conditions of Disbursement would be as follows:
(a) For the line of credit component to LADB -- (a) implementation of its
technical assistance program; (b) implementation of a viable plan for



- 56 -
its recapitalization; (c) put in place systems adequate to manage its
loan portfolio; and (d) implementation of key aspects identified in
its Strategic Corporate Plan (para. 4.11);
(b) For the line of credit component to LNDC: (i) LNDC adjusting its
interest rate to subborrowers to at least the prime rate of interest
for all credit lines operated or to a level which would allow the
Corporation to recover the costs of its lending operations and ensure
future sustainability of those operations; (ii) preparation of
documentation by December 31, 1991 for the floating of a small bond
issue or other resource mobilization mechanism agreed with IDA; and
(iii) submission to IDA of an acceptable action plan to increase
income, reduce costs and improve loan collection performance on loan
operations to ensure viable operation (para. 4.10);
(c) For the line of credit component to individual PBI'st execution of a
PBI agreement with the Central Bank (para. 4.08);
td) For the agroindustries component to the individual agroindustrial
parastatalss (a) prior implementation of policy measures affecting
the performance of that company and (b) the agroindustrial parastatal
having entered into a subsidiary agreement with the Government (para.
4.16); and
(e) Disbursements from the Small Business Development fund would be
subject to government arrangements, approved by IDA, for
administration of the fund (para. 4.20).
(f) For infrastructure development component GOL would agree with IDA on
(a) a formula for sharing of the costs for main distribution lines
between end users and Lesotho Electric Corporation (LEC) and Lesotho
Telecommunications Corporation (LTC) respectively and (b)
construction standards and procurement arrangements, to be applied to
utility networks (para. 3.14).
6.03      Conditions of Effectiveness would be as follows:
(a) An executed subsidiary loan agreement between the GOL and the Central
Bank and between the GOL and LNDC (para. 4.08); and
(b) An executed PBI agreement (participating bank agreement) between the
Central Bank and at least one commercial bank (para. 4.08).



;NNE



-57-
Annex I
Page 1 of 6
Table 1.1
Lesotho: The Structure of Economic Activity, 1967-1988
(percentages of GDP)
1967188     1980         1984       1988
Primary Sector                         36.8       33.9        24.7        22.7
of which Agriculture                 34.5       26.2        24.5        22.6
Secondary Sector                        7.7       16.5        20.7        24.0
of which Manufacturing                3.4        5.2        10.1        11.0
Construction                          4.0       10.5         9.7        11.8
Tertiary Sector                        55.5       49.3        54.6        53.2
of which Public Administration,
Education and Health                 14.6       24.7        20.3        22.1
Source: Lesotho Bureau of Statistics and Central Bank



- 58 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 6
Table 1.2
OwnershiR of Firms with Pioneer Industry Status
March 1989
Ownership Type       No. of Enterprises  Employment        Investment
M4'000
Basotho only               5                115             1692
LNDC only                  1                306             2300
RSA only                   9               1468            14760
Foreign but
non-RSA only             10               2200            13017
Joint Venturest
-Basotho & RSA           4                207            2573
-Basotho
and Foreign             4                437             3527
-LNDC & RSA              2                 64             4350
-RSA and Foreign         6               2044             7808
Unidentified
Ownership                  4                923             4757
TOTAL                     45               7764            54784
Sources Lesothos Ministry of Trade and Industry



- 59 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
Table 1.3
The Structure of Merchandise Zxiorts
Cv.rcentazes)
1981        1983         1985          1987
Food                     10.1        22.9         12.3          20.0
Fuels                     0.1                      0.3           0.1
Other Primary
Commodities              60.9        40.1         51.4          20.0
Manufactures             25.6        32.7         34.2          57.8
Other                     3.3         4.3          1.8           2.1
TOTAL                   100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0
Sources Lesotho, Bureau of Statistics.



- 60 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 6
Table 1. 4
The Composition of Larger Firms In Manufacturing. 1986
No. of   No. of      Employment Value    Value
Firms    Employees  Shares (Z) Added    Added
m't000    Shares (2)
Food & Beverages      15       1808         27.5       34572     53.7
Textiles,
Garments              41       1R28         27.8       12569     19.5
Leather                7        890         13.5        2522      3.9
Furniture             10        182          2.8        2907      1.4
Printing               4        357          5.4         103      3.3
chemical Products      6        206          3.1        2868      4.5
Non-Metallic
Minerals               19       444          6.7        2594      4.4
Fabricated Steel
Products               7        192          2.9        1122      1.7
Other Manufacturing   14        677         10.3        5098      7.9
Total Manufacturing  123       6485        100.0       64357    100.0
Sources Ministry of Trade and Industry, Louis Berger and Baffoe Associates
Survey, May 1987 and LDC.



- 61 -
Annex 1
Page5 of 6
Table 1.5
Lesotho, Survey of Small-Scale Industries, 1989
No. of          No. of
Category                                      Establishment   Employees
Blocks & Bricks                                  17               206
Carpentry                                        56               130
Elec. Repairs                                     5                15
Handicraft                                       28               146
Knitting                                         87               174
Knitting & Sewing                                45               231
Leather Works                                    41               121
Sewing                                          143               291
Sheet Metal                                      38                75
Metal & Carpentry                                 6                40
Others                                           10                46
Total                                 476             1475



- 62 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
LESOTHO
TABLZ 1.6 : LOCATIONS AND DISTSBUSSTONS OF SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRTIS, 1989
Category               A    a    C     D      E    F    a    L    'I 
Blocks X Bricks        3    2    4      3                          2    1
Carpentry             21    4    2      4    12    8    1    1          3
Zlec. Repairs          5                                      2
Handicraft            12    1           7     4    3                    1
Knitting              44    2    6            9    9          7    6    4
Knitting & Sew        10    2    2      2     3   11    2    5    5    3
Leather Works         31         1      2     2    2    1    2
sewing.               52    3   11     8    18   18    3    9    7   13
Sheet Metal           20    1    1      4     3    6    1    1          1
Metal & Carpentry           4                 1         1
Others                 3         3      2     1                         1
Total                "0a   19   30    32    53   51    9    27  20   27
Locations, A-Maseru; Butha-tuthe; C-Leribeg D-Ireag X-Nafeteng; F-Mohale's
Hock; G.Quthing& E-Mokhotlong; I-Thaba-Taka; J-Qacha's tik; IC-Others.



- 63 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 16
LESOTHO
II. THt AGROINDUSTRIAL SWUBSCTOR PIRPORNANCE AND ISSUES
2.01.     Introduction.  Agriculture plays an important, albeit declining,
role in Lesotho's economy. The sector's direct contribution to GDP has
declined from about 35 percent in 1968 to approximately 23 percent in 1988.
Despite this decline, agriculture continues to provide employment and
income to nearly 70 percent of the Basotho population. Agricultural
exports, mainly wool, mohair and canned vegetables (asparagus and green
beans), account for 65 percent of the total value of exports. On the other
hand, agricultural imports (mainly food grains, processed foodstuff, fresh
fruits and vegetables, fertilizer and agricultural machinery) account for a
sizeable part of the country's import bill.
2.02.     Growth in agroindustry is contingent upon expansion in
agriculture, given their strong interlinkages. Consequently agriculture's
declining share in overall economic growth has important implications for
agro-industrial development. Prospects for a dramatic increase in the
country's agricultural production are poor, given that Lesotho is generally
a marginal agricultural producer. Its agricultural resource base is
limited and has reached its frontier in terms of land resource.
Sustainability of the sector is a major challenge to the country's
planners. Increased agricultural production in Lesotho can only come from
increased productivity, which, in turn, is dependent on technological,
institutional and policy changes -- ingredients which so far have been
lacking. Consequently, both production and productivity in the sector have
been declining, with adverse consequences on the sector's comparative
advantage. Unless this trend is reversed, Lesotho's agroindustrial growth
and competitiveness would be in jeopardy. The Government of Lesotho (GOL),
with donor assistance, has been Implementing various programs to avert this
evenituality. Priority has been given to implementing policies and programs
inteuded to ensure the sustainability of the land resource as a basis for
sustainable agricultural production, income, and employment. Unless
agriculture's decline is effectively arrested and reversed, agroindustrial
expansion based on domestic production, is not likely to be substantial in
the short and medium term.
2.03.     Growth of Lesotho's agriculture and agroindustry is also -reatly
influenced by linkages with the South African economy under the Southern
African Customs Union (SACU). This arrangement makes Lesotho's economy and
agriculture (including agroindustry) extremely open and exposed to
competition from RSA production. Substantial productivity gains (mainly
due to technological change) have been achieved in RSA's agriculture in
recent years at the same time that Lesotho's agricultural productivity has
declined. Thus the comparative advsntage (competitiveness) of Lesotho's
agriculture vis-a-vis the RSA's must have substantially eroded. Lesotho
prices have continued to follow closely those of RSA's agriculture, which
have remained the price leader within SACU. A continued decline in
Lesotho's agricultural productivity would eventually result in RSA's
agricultural prices ceasing to be profitable to Basotho farmers. This
situation might have been already reached in the case of maize, wheat,
poultry products and beef. These products have DRCs which are more than



- 64 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 16
unity. Consequently, agroindustrial activities in these subsectors have
remained financially profitable only in the presence of deliberate and
specific protection measures (e.g. import supply management through import
licensing, etc.).
2.04.     Structure.  Agroindustry in Lesotho is dominated by grain
milling, the brewery, fruit and vegetable canning and beef processing. In
1988, the agro-processing represented about 80 percent of total
manufacturing value added, a substantial portion of formal sector
employzent, and nearly 10 percent of total GDP. It is estimated that
approximately 24 percent of paid manufacturing employees work in the food
and beverage industries.
2.05.     The subsector has two major components -- the public
(parastatal) sector and the private sector. The public sector's
contribution to agroindustrial GDP in 1988 is estimated at 63 percent
(Table 2.1). Much of this contribution is concentrated in a few sizeable
parastatals as followss Lesotho Brewery Company, which also accounted for
most of the growth in the beverage subsector; Basotho Fruit and Vegetable
Company (BFVC), which accounts for all fruit and vegetable processing in
the country; National Abattoir and Feedlot Complex (NAFC), which accounts
for most of the covmercial livestock slaughterings in the country; and the
Flour-Maize Mill and Feed Mill Complcx (FMMFMC), which is the nation's
miller of wheat and maize flour and the only manufacturer of feeds in the
country.
2.06.     The private sector investment in agroindustry is limited and
consists largely of small-scale enterprises. Only 6 percent of private
sector GDP in 1988 is estimated to have come from agroindustries and
manufacturing. Privately held agroprocessing enterprises have not
performed well. Their contribution to agroindustrial GDP declined from 54
percent in 1984 to only 37 percent in 1988 (Table 2.1), in line with the
decline of agriculture's share in GDP. For example, the butchery
subsector's (made up primarily of small enterprises) contribution to
agroindustrial GDP declined by almost 40 percent; local brewery's
contribution declined by 25 percent; while the contribution of small scale
wool and mohair knitting activities stagnated during 1984-88. The
relatively small contribution by private sector investment to
agroindustrial GDP can be traced in large part to the government policy
which defines agro-based industry as *strategic" and mandates government
control and participation. This also explains the substantial public
sector share and role in the subsector.



- 65 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 16
Table 2.1
Lesotho Private Sector Share in Agroindustrial GDP
(Current Prices in Million Maloti)
1984 1985 1986 1987 1988
1. Total Agroind. GDP               37     43   56   70   87
2. Private Sector Agro. GDP          20    17   29   25   32
3. 2 as I of 1                      54     40   52   36   37
Source:   USAID, Manual for Action in Private Sector (MAPS), Lesotho, Nov.
1, 1989.
2.07.     Performance.  Overall agroindustry performance indicators cannot
be estimated for lack of data. For the same reason, performance of the
privately owned agroindustrial enterprises cannot be estimated. Reasonably
reliable data is, however, available to evaluate the performance of several
agroindustrial parastatals. In evaluating parastatal performance it is
important to note that the stated objectives against which performance is
evaluated is often conflicting. For example, while the raison d'etre for
the establishment of most parastatals is to generate economic growth (i.e.
social or economic profitability), the GOL has often used the companies as
instruments for achieving social or economic equity (e.g. income
redistribution through subsidies). Parastatal companies dealing with milk,
beef and asparagus processing, for example, have been used to channel
subsidies to target groups (e.g. consumers and producers). Nevertheless,
for most parastatals, the primary objective of their establishment has been
more financial or economic, than social. It is therefore appropriate to
subject these parastatals to traditional financial/economic tests and to
use financial profitability as the principal yardstick. The use of this
measure is equally justified by the fact that financial resources used in
the establishment and operation of these parastatals have extremely high
opportunity costs, particularly in the face of fiscal restraints which
Lesotho faces.
2.08.     Data available on the financial performance of the major
agroindustrial parastatals indicates that they have generally performed
poorly (Table 2.2). With the exception of the Flour-Maize Mill and Feed
Mill Complex, all the parastatals have operated with financial losses.
Total accumulated loases incurred by the nine major parastatals operating
as 'trading accounts' of the Ministry of Agriculture and the BFVC
(operating as a subsidiary of LNDC), amounted to at least M7.7 million in
1987-1988. This represented about 8 percent of the total public sector
agroindustrial GDP. In fact, over 80 percent of these parastatals have,
since their inception, continually operated with looses. This has 1-1 to
erosion of assets and resulted in massive infusion of Government budgetary
resources in the form of "capital grants" (to recapitalized or halt the



- 66 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 16
provide working or maintenance capital). Total government budgetary
transfers to agroindustrial parastatals increased from about 6 million in
1983/84 to almost 27 million in 1987/88, an increase of nearly fivefold.
Table 2.2
Lesotho's Financial Results of Parastatals in Agroindustry
(Thousand Maloti)
Parastatal                                Financial Profit (Loss)
1987       1988      Accumulated
1.  National Abattoir and Feedlot Complex    (2,952.3)   (2,760.9)  (5,713.2)
2.  Basotho Fruit and Vegetable Canners          (13.5)      (54.3)      (40.8)
3. Lesotho Poultry Cooperative Society             n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
4.  Flour-Maize Mill and Feed Mill Complex   15,340.0    11,009.0   26,349.0
5. Poultry Hatchery, Cold Store
and Pullet Rearing                            n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
6.  Milk Processing Plant and Collection
Centers                                       n.a.      (19.4)      (19.4)
7.  Agricultural Machinery                         n.a.   (1,963.4)  (1,963.4)
8.  Irrigated Farms and Irrigation
Equipment (TOU)                               n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
9. Seed and Nursery Production                     n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
10. Coop Lesotho                                 200.6       264.3      464.3
Total Losses Alone                        (2.952.3)   (4,798.    (7,736.8)
Source: Extracted from Annexes of the FAO Study on Rationalization of
Agricultural Commercialization in Lesotho, Rome, 1989.
2.09.    The major beneficiaries of these grants or transfers have been
Coop Lesotho, the Abattoir, BFVC, Agricultural Machinery and the Milk
Processing Plant. As indicated in Table 2.3, capital grants increased
sixfold. However, as indicated in Table 2.12, these massive investments
have not generated satisfactory financial results in most parastatals.



- 67 -
Annex II
Page 5 of 16
Table 2.3
Lesotho - Government Transfers to Parastatals in Agroindustry,
1984-1988 (in Current Maloti, Millions)
1983184     1984185      1985/86    1986/87   1987/88
Capital              3.5           2.8         12.3        19.9      21.5
Recurrent            2.4           4.1          3.9         4.1       5.1
Total                5.9           6.9         16.2        24.0      26.6
_             _
Sourcess  Mission Estimates based on:
1. FAO study on Rationalization of Agricultural Commerclalization in
Lesotho, Rome, 1989.
2. USAID, NAPS. Lesotho, Nov. 1, 1989
2.10.      An analysis, using data contained in the FAO study supplemented
by field Interviews, finds the following comwon problems among the
parastatals -- poor management, inappropriate organization, inappropriate
corporate culture, and over/under capitalization. The best performer of
all, the Flour-MaLze Mill and Feed Mill Complex which operates under
excellent contract management has shown quite strong financial performance,
good organization and above average independence from government directives
which, in other companies, subverts commercial objectLves. The factors
contributing to Lesotho's mnsatisfactory parastatal performance are
discussed below and summarized on page 13.
(a) Manazement was judged on the basis of the management team's
technical training, experience, and its ability to make
commercially sound decisions to achieve institutional
objectives. These attributes were lacking in the majority of
the management teams   The competence of the management team was
found to be critical in determining the degree of corporate
independence demonstrated in responding to the policy and
institutional environment existing in Lesotho. With the
exception of the Milling Complex, the management teams of all
parastatals are 'civil servants* or bureaucrats without
appropriate training and experience in business or commercial
management.
(b) Ornanization of a parastatal refers to the degree of corporate
autonomy and accountability in relation to the parent miDnistry
(i.e. Ministry of Agriculture for all except the BIVC). Most
parastatals have boards of directors and management teams which
neither have autonomy with respect to parent ministry policy
decisions nor do they have command over key resources (e.g.



- 68 -
Annex II
Page 6 of 16
personnel and finance). Boards' policy decisions as well as
management's major operational decisions (e.g. staff
appointments and promotion) are subject to approval or
authorization by either the Minister or Permanent Secretary of
the Ministry of Agriculture. As a result neither the Board nor
the management team feels accountable for such decisions.
Autonomy and accountability are the missing ingredients as they
have been replaced by ministerial decisions or authorization and
directives.
(c) Corporate Culture is the definition of corporate objectives, how
these are perceived by parastatal staff, and what is the modus
operandi for achieving these objectives. Most parastatals have
such ill-defined and conflicting objectives that staff does not
have a clue about their company's basic mandate. On one hand,
most parastatals are expected to operate as business or
coumercial entities, on the other hand they are directed to act
as social welfare organizations via which the government
channels subsidies to target groups. For example, most
parastatals (e.g. BFVC, the Abattoir and Milk Plant) neither
operate on a commercial (profit) basis nor on cost recovery
basis because they have been directed, as a matter of policy, to
provide subsidized services to their respective customers or to
the farmers which provide inputs for their operations. The
modus operandi of most parastatals is procedure- rather than
results-oriented and efficiency is not the guiding principle of
operations.
(d) Over/Under Capitalization refers to the installed or designed
capacity of the processing plant in relation to the supply of
raw materials or throughput. Most plants (e.g. NAPC, BFVC,
Agricultural Machinery) have capacities far in excess of the
available supply of raw material or demand for services. In
this sense, they are overcapitalized, and low or uneconomic
capacity utilization is the order of the day. Others (e.g. the
Milk Plant) have far too small capacities in relation to raw
material supply. Another form of overcapitalization common to
almost all agroindustrial parastatals in is over employment of
labor, especially of permanent labor, in relation to the volume
of output and the seauonality of operations (e.g. in the BPVC
and NAPC). This results in high overhead costs and raises the
break-even points of the operations.
(e) An Inappropriate Policy Environment is at the heart of the
operational problems of parastatals. As stated before, GOL uses
some of the parastatals as instruments of achieving specific
policy objectives. For example, existing government marketing
policy for meat and meat products establishes a close linkage
between the Abattoir and implementation of range destocking
policy. Consequently, the abattoir is obligated to purchase all
cattle presented for sale by farmers at sales auctions
irrespective of their quality which, in most cases, is extremely
poor.



- 69 -                               Annex II
Page 7 of 16
Most of the animals sold by traditional farmers are cull coWs,
oxen and sheep. In reality, the Government's directive obliging
the abattoir to purchase all cattle offered resulted in inferior
output quality of the abattoir and indirectly and ironically
encourages overstocking and overgrazing of the range. Farmers
keep their animals for as long as they wish without fearing
rejection of the animal by the market. Similarly, in the name
of this policy, the abattoir has no freedom to import live
animals from RSA to supplement domestic supply--which in itself
would improve the quality of the abattoir's output and ensure
better capacity utilization. As a result, the abattoir has
suffered from gross capacity underutilization and has failed to
induce farmers to sell animals. As a result the farmers regard
cattle as assets to hold rather than as commodities to sell.
Similarly, government policy to manage imported supplies (via
import permits) of poultry and dairy products has discouraged
the optimal use of installed processing capacity and has
perpetuated inefficient pricing systems benefitting a few large
producers. Finally, government policy to use parastatals as
instruments of income redistribution and provision of incentives
(via subsidies) to target groups has accounted for the financial
straits of most parastatals. Table 2.4 sunmarizes the various
subsidies accorded to target groups through the parastatals. It
is evident that these subsidies are substantial. In some cases
(e.g. the Abattoir's subsidies to the butcheries) cannot be
justified on either financial, economic or social grounds.
2.11.      The impact of the subsidies is far reaching.  It affects both
the financial results of the parastatals, but more importantly, these
Subsidies introduce distortions in the subsector which discourage or make
the private sector's participation impossible. For example, the subsidized
low rates of farm machinery rental charged by TOU have consistently put
private tractor contractors at a competitive disadvantage and discouraged
their operation. Similarly, both producer and consumer subsidies
administered by various parastatals have discouraged private participation
in the subsector.



- 70 -
Annex 1I
Page 8 of 16
Table 2.4
Lesotho - Specific Subsidies Channelled Through Parastatels
1990
Parastatal                    Target Group           Type of Subsidy          Subsidy Rate
(Z)
1.  Basotho Fruit and Vegetable      Producers of            (a) Interest on Establish-      100
Canners                          asparagus and green        ment costs
beans                  (b) Sransport Cost              50
(c) Seedling Costs              60
2.  National Abattoir and             (a) Livestock          (a) Price Subsidy             30-45
Feedlot Complex                      producers          (b) Customer slaughter
(b) Butcheries             fee                         71
3. Agricultural Machinery            Crop producers          Tractor Service Charge          74
4.  Milk Processing Plant            (a) Dairy Parmers        (a) Producer Price
subsidy                    64
(b) Milk Consumers      (b) Consumer Price
Subsidy                    21
5.  Lesotho Poultry Coop.            (a) Poultry producers  (a) Producer Price
Society                                                      Subsidy                     31
(b) Poultry Product    (b) Consumer tax
consumers                 (16)
Sources Mission Estiiates based on data in the PAO Study and Field interviews.
2.12.      Removal of the above discussed distortions is a precondition for
increased participation of the private sector in agroindustrial development
in Lesotho. The proposed project would prouide support to the GOLt (a) to
eliminate the policy-induced distortions which have inhibited parastatal
performance and virtually prevented increased participation of the private
sector in Lesotho's agroindustrial development; (b) to restructure and
coamercialize selected existing agroindustrial parastatals to improve their
efficiency and production; and (c) to facllitate the iTplementation of (b)
above, the project would provide financing iir technical assistance under
management consultant contracts and implementation of staff and management
training programs to ensure adequate local capacity for the future.
2.13.      Policy Refora 'Packae.  In order to Improve efficiency and
growth in the agroindustrial subsector (i.e. private and public), the
project would prior to negotiations seek written commitment from the
government to implement the following policy reforms by the specified



- 71 -
Annex II
Page 9 of 16
dates, Agreement in principal to these reforms was received from GOL
during project appraisal.
(i)    Eliminate existing subsidies administered by the various
parastatals to various target groups by requiring full cost
recovery on operations.
(ii)    Allow parastatals to introduce gradewise pricing for comodities
which are currently not graded.
(iii)    Implement changes in the Land Act of 1979 (as agreed under the
government's PFP program) to permit long-term land leasing
arrangements.
(iv)    Rationalize procedures for import-supply management via import
licensing to permit flexibility and responsiveness in the system
for all products currently under the import licensing system.
(v)    Eliminate supply management of domestically produced commodities
currently practiced by some parastatals (e.g. the Lesotho
Poultry Cooperative Society for broilers and eggs).
(vi)    parastatals to reject inferior and unprofitable products offered
by farmers for sale (e.g. old and sickly livestock or reject
vegetables and fruits).
(vii)    Eliminate existing price controls for certain commodities (e.g.
milk and poultry products) and services (e.g. customer slaughter
fees and tractor service rates).
(viii)    Eliminate government grants or budgetary i _isfers to
parastatals as well as government guarantees for conmercial
loans.
(ix)    Permit private sector participation in ownership of parastatals
on at least a 51:49 basis, with the private sector having
controlling share participation by September 30, 1993.
2.14.      Assurances will be sought during negotiations that the
Government will have implemented the above policy reforms by June 30, 1991,
except item (i) above.
2.15.      Implementation of the Institutional and Financial Restructuring
Program. In order to improve he institutional and financial performance
of agroindustrial parastatals, the Government has agreed in principal to
implement the institutional and financial reforms specified below:
(i)    Change the legal status of the parastatals from ministerial
'trading accounts' to legal corporate bodies, registered under
the Companies Act, with full autonomy and accountable ,- their
respective boards of directors by June 30, 1991.



- 72 -
Annex SI
Page 10 of 16
(ii)    Parastatals registered under the Companies Act will cease to
have ministerial affiliation upon registration or appointment of
contract management, whichever comes first.
(iii)    For each parastatal to be registered under the Companies Act,
the Government will prepare a statement of operating policies
and procedures in which the corporate objectives, autonomy,
accountability and procedures would be clearly articulated; this
statement would be annexed to the Memorandum and Articles of
Association and it should be completed for each parastatal
before incorporation (June 30, 1991).
(iv)    Por each parastatal registered under the Companies Act, the
Government will contract the management of the company to a
professionally competent management consultant initially for two
years, with possible extension for another one or two years upon
satisfactory rqrformancet the basic mandate of each management
consultant w, _. be to run the company on a purely commercial
basis. As part of the tendering process, the Government will
require bidding consultants to prepare a three-year corporate
plan with specific performance targets (e.g. turnover, unit
costs and net profit) and projected capitalization required to
support commercial operations for the subject company; such a
corporate plan would become part of the management contract to
be executed. The preparation of a corporate plan satisfactory
to IDA would be a condition of disbursement for each company.
Management contracts for all selected parastatals would be
executed by September 30, 1991.
(v)    Procurement of the management consultant services would be in
accordance with IDA Guidelines for Procurement of Consultancy
Services. The signing of a management consultant contract would
be a condition of disbursement for the individual parastatal for
the Technical Assistance and Staff Training under the
agroindustrial component.
(vi)    The Government would ensure that each parastatal has a
satisfactory capital structure for the purpose of its basic
mandate as recommended under the corporate plan for each
parastatal and as approved by IDA.
(vii)    Before September 30, 1993, the Government, as the initial and
sole owner of these companies, will allow private sector (local
and foreign) participation in each registered company on a
negotiable basis agreed by the board of each company and the
private sector participants.
2.16.      The parastatals to be restructured, commercialized and
eventually privatized under the proposed project will consist of the
National Abattoir and Feed Complex, Basotho Fruit and Vegetable Canners
(Pty) Ltd; Lesotho Poultry Cooperative Society, Flour-Maize Kill and Feed
Mill Complex, Poultry Hatchery, Cold Store and Pullet Rearing, and Milk
Processing Plant and Collection Centers.



- 73 -
Annex II
Page 11 of 16
2.17.    The Agricultural Machinery, Irrigated Farms and Irrigation
Equipment, Seed and Nursery Production and Coop Lesotho are providing
services which are easily privatized. These entities should be liquidated
and left to the private sector.
Institutions Participating in the Agroindustries Component
2.18.          Abattoir and Feedlot Complex (NAFC).  Government policy for
meat and meat products establishes a close linkage between the Abattoir
and Implmentation of a range destocking policy. GOL policy also requires
payment of a price subsidy of 30-45? to livestock producers and controls
butcher fees representing a 712 subsidy of the market fee. The same
subsidized price is paid regardless of the quality of the animal. The
technical quality of the abattoir is unsatisfactory in that it was never
constructed to export standards. Financial and operational systems are
totally inadequate. As a result, the abattoir has suffered from gross
capacity underutilization (50?) and financial losses. Under the project
contract management would provide a General Manager, a production manager,
a financial controller, a feedlot manager and a marketing manager. These
areas would also be the focus of training activities.
2.19.          Basotho Fruit and Vegetable Canners (BFVC).  The Production
is dominated by canned asparagus for export to the European Community where
it has captured a market niche. Although organization of asparagus
producers has been good, production beyond the peak season has not been
seriously pursued. As a result, after the asparagus season, capacity
utilization at the BFVC is virtually nonexistent, except for a small amount
of peach canning. Government policy currently requires BFVC to subsidize
producer establishment costs, transport costs, and seedling costs, the
latter at 602. Operations would benefit from marketing advice, improved
costing systems, mechanical labeling, generally more efficient processing
systems, and active efforts to improve capacity utilization through
contract efforts with farmers. Under the Project, contract management
would provide a General Manager, Production Manager, Marketing Manager and
a Financial Controller. These areas would also be the focus of training
activities.
2.20.          Poultry Hatchery, Cold Store and Pullet Rearing. The plant
is owned and supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Department of
Livestock. Hatchery facilities accommodate 6,000 eggs, and chicken rearing
capacity has been about 2,000. Two new modern buildings completely
equipped to house 6,000 broilers was built recently. The facilities appear
to be technically adequate and are the proper scale for the market.
However, the operation is plagued by inadequate incentives to operate
efficiently. For example, incubators have not been operational for two-



- 74 -
Annex II
Page 12 of 16
and-a-half years that has not been replaced. Lesotho's poultry production
is protected by strict import controls on poultry products, which has
perpetuated inefficient pricing benefiting a few large producers. This
protection results in an effective consumer tax of about 162. In addition,
poultry producers receive a 312 subsidy. Accounts and financial controls
are extremely inadequate. Under the project, contract man4gement would
provide a General Manager, a Financial Controller and a loultzy Specialist.
These would also be the focus of training activities.
2.22.      Milk Processing Plant and Collection Centers.  This has been a
Canadian International Development Authority (CIDA) assisted project since
1983 when CIDA took over operation of the dairy from the Ministry of
Agriculture. The M2 million plant includes a building, dairy equipment,
and delivery equipment, all of which are new or in good condition. The
objective of the project, to raise plant capacity from 1,000 litres to
10,000 litres a day, has been achieved although the plant is not operating
at full capacity. A principal objective of the project was to provide
consumers with a quality product at a fair price to correct the very low
milk consumption in the country. This social objective has motivated
Government intervention into pricing policy to the detriment of sound
management of the plant and of the industry in general. Through management
by th.i ;: -ional Dairy Board, milk imports are restricted, limiting capacity
utiliz. ion; the dairy is required to pay producer prices, which are set
64Z above the market rate; and prices to consumers are set 212 below market
rates in South Africa. These regulation-constrained margins, combined with
652 capacity utilization with high fixed costs, make the plant unviable for
the foreseeable future. In addition, with the end of the CIDA project
there is no local manager to assume responsibility. The proposed project
would shore up management for an additional two years by providing a
general manager, a financial controller, a dairy specialist, and related
training to ensure local capacity for the future.
2.23.      Poultry Cooperative Society.  The society is cooperatively owned
by 50 members at Mekaling and in Mohale's Hoek district. The complex
comprises an egg circle, a chicken slaughter house (capacity of 250
birds/day, although not in operation due to lack of broilers), four broiler
houses (capacity of 500 broilerslday), and a handicraft training center.
The demand for chickens is high as is the potential viability of the
operation and its returns to farmers. Currently the cooperative is the
focus of the organization, and management is virtually nonexistent. Under
the project, a managing director, financial manager and marketing manager
would be provided.



_peaIx  I
LesotIh
Major t.e.c. to A.re-Zndu.t.y
tOnoppritl   ISapprwlt           OverUnder Xeptprplt                      Goer. Operatin
O ll" y       . ~~~porO     H__swm    orVlsole  cprt Coltur  Capitallxein, Policy 6v>rote"t                            Probl_e
*I. NtItoml Abtteir sod Food                                                                                       Subtaoutal accumulated opexting
Couvx                                                                                                           l xx   1 1.
02. en"tho         d Vegetable                                                                                 2. High proceeing ceds.
Co r   y) Ltd.                                 x                x                                            . Le  of utmy.
*8. Lesho Pulty Ce        ti                                                                                    4.  1odaquet eontebi I ity.
e4oc$.liAF                      a              x                                 x                 a. Depeadany on gowt fInncell grant
*4. Flur4      Mt II or                                                                                            Capac F1 pity utadrwutilaetion (low CoepiPx
production).
.6. pouitry Hatc.y, Cold Store                                                                                  7. Leok ot pricing policy decision
SWd Pul lob   nor                              a                a               a x                s           (price control.).
6. Milik Proceszig Pl  an                                                                                       S. Highly Subsided z ervices to cil at
ColtloeCn                       a              x                a               x                  x           (lack ofeot rcovwry).
7. Agricultural echinary                         a0. Oex9 ln or toebnical probl_w.                                                                     V
S  Irrigted frms and rrigtliee                                                                                10. Lack of    lty control       r    ine
Equimen                         a              a                a               a                  a           price poliey (or market guara teerfo
9. lead SWd Nub ry Production      a.             aa x                             a                  a           *  pro )
10 Coo lenotbo                      a      x                                x       a                 a        11. Uetictory captal  ctre
12. C_mbr_o  procurement procdue
on bools ef Public T_ndr Ibard ad
Pub lte Stors Reglatiees.
* Thes perLAuttle will be retaructred, c_inralallad and privatized under th  proe_d project.
0
0 0
o hX
_ g-
os 4



- 76 -
Annex II
Page 14 of 16
Table 2.5
Lesotho - Techatcal Assistance and Staff Training
for Aarolnduetry Detailed Component Cot  ClI'00
Conany                           PYl     PY2       "i       Tota I coet
A. Technial Aslataneo:
1. NAFC                        0.0   1,956.7   1,985.7   38,71.4
2. am                          0.0   1,646.0   1,654.0   ,2900.0
8. LPCS                        0.0   1,267.6   .,267.6   2,616.0
4. Poultory  atchery           0.0   1,267.5   8,257.6   2,515.0
6. Ml lk Proecalag Plant       0.0   1,257.5   1,267.6   2,616.0
Total Tochnical Aesietance       0.0   7,385.2   7,a58.2  14,706.4
S. Local Staff Training:
1. NAFC                        0.0    112.5    112.6    226.0
2. BfVC                        0.0    100.0      100.0    200.0
8. LPCS                        0.0      75.0      75.0    150.0
4. Poultry Hatchery            0.0      62.6      62.5     125.0
5.  Milk Processing Plant      0.0      02.5      62.5     126.0
0. MleoeIlaneoe Staff          0.0      76.0      7C.0    150.0
Total Local Staff Traainng       0.0     487.6    407.5    075.0
Total                       0.0   7,640.7   7,840.7  1560O1.4



- 77 -
Annex II
Page 15 of 16
Table 2.6
Lesotho Staff Trainine Prosrm for Asroindustrial Develonmnt Staff
Company  Main Training Ara         Traintng Yro Unit Cost   Total Cost
1. NAFC   Buolneas Adminlatrotlon (MD)  0.5           60.0        25.0
Production Management
(PYM D-iortsn)               1.0          60.0         60.0
Ftnanclrl Management
(FC Designate)               1.5          60.0         75.0
Feed lot Management
(FM Designate)               0.6          50.0         26.0
Marketing Management
(MM Doeignat.)               1.0          60.0         60.0
Total Coat                4.6         50.0        225.0
2. BFVC   Buslnes A4ministration (MD)  0.5            60.0        26.0
Production Management
(PM Dosignate)               1.0          60.0         60.0
Marketing Management
(MM Designate)               1.0          60.0         60.0
Financial Management
(FC Designate)               1.6          60.0         75.0
Total Costa              4.0         S0.0        200.0
8. LPCS   Busines Administration (MD)  0.6            50.0        26.0
Financial Management
(FC Designate)               1.5          60.0         75.0
Marketing Managemnt
(MM DOelgnate)               1.0          60.0         50.0
Total CoSt               8.0         S0.0        160.0
4. Poultry Hatchery
Busines  Administration (MD)  0.5         60.0         25.0
Financiol anagement
(FC Destgnate)               1.0          60.0         50.0
Poultry Productlon Management
(PS Designl )                1.0          60.0         50.0
Total Coa                2.6         60.0        126.0
S. Mtilk Procsing
Busines Administration (MD) 0.6          60.0         25.0
Plant Dairy Management
(DS Designate)              1.0          60.0         50.0
Financial Management
(FC Designate)              1.0          50.0         50.0
Total Coat.             2.5         50.0        125.0
Miscellaneous Staff Training 15.0        10.0        160.0
Total Staff Training Program Cost    81.6         80.9        975.0



- 78 -
Annex II
Page 16 of 16
Table 2.7
Lesotho Technical Asistance tor Acroindustritl Develogent
Company  Speciallate Needed    Total Manyanrt  Unit Cost Contract Price
11 #000_________
1. NAFC    Genera I Manager               2.0       450.0       900.0
Production Manager           2.0       387.6       775.0
Financial Controller         2.0       420.0       840.0
Feedlot IMnager              2.0       887.5       775.0
MaIrketing Manager           1.6       387.6       681.3
Lump Sum Contract Price      9.6       407.6    8,871.3
2. SFVC    General Manager                2.0       460.0       900.0
Production Manager           2.0       887.5       775.0
Marketing Manager            2.0       887.6       775.0
Financiel Control ler        2.0       420.0       640.0
Lump Sum Contract Price      8.0       411.8     3,290.0
3. LPCS    General Manager                2.0       460.0       900.0
Financial Controller         2.0       420.0        84.0
Marketing Manager            2.0       387.6       775.0
Lump Sum Contract Price      6.0       419.2     2,615.0
4. Poultry Hatchery
Genral Manager               2.0       450.0       900.0
Financlal Controller         2.0       420.0       840.0
Poultry Specialists          2.0       887.5       775.0
Lump Sum Contract Price      6.0       419.2     2,516.0
S. Milk Procesing
Genral Ibner                 2.0       460.0       900.0
Plant Dairy Specialist       2.0       387.5       775.0
Financial Controller         2.0       420.0       840.0
Lump Sum Contract Price      6.0       419.2     2,516.0
Total Technical Aseletance Proram Coat   86.5       414.8   14,706.8



- 79 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 7
Table 3.1
Lesotho: Composition of the Financial Sector
(M million)
1987           Z          1988          2
Central Bank                       188.2          25S       266.3          26S
Commercial Banks                   469.8          62Z       627.5          62Z
Lesotho Bank                     301.4          402       400.0          392
Standard Chartered                94.8          13?       136.0          132
Barclays Bank                     73.6          102        91.5           92
LBFC                                21.1           32        27.3           32
LADB                                16.5           22        26.6           32
LNDC                                40.2           5S        48.2          5S
BEDCO+                              5.01           12         5.7           12
3NIC                                12.7           22        14.1           1S
TOTAL*                             753.5         1OOS      1015.7         1OOS
Memos  GNP                          1373                      1635
In millions of maloti. Based on end year assets.
Current liabil'ties of the three banks were netted out.
* 1988 assumes no real growth.
* The total includes claims between financial institutions amounting to
M129 million in 1987 and 1988.
Sources: CBL, L?EDC, BEDCO.



- 80 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 7
Table 3.2
Lesotho: Comparative Performance of Bank
(M '000)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
1. ASSETS OTHER THAN FIXED
Lesotho Bank                              212.9  254.4  276.2  246.0   403.2
Other banks                               136.4  152.8  170.5  237.1   265.9
Total All banks                           349.3  407.2  446.7  583.1   669.1
Lesotho                                    61.0   62.5   61.8   59.3    60.3
2. TOTAL DEPOSITS EXCLUDING DEFERRED PAY
Lesotho Bank                              131.3  161.3  187.8  250.7   276.9
Other                                     125.5  141.2  157.8  219.7   238.6
Total All banks                           256.8  302.5  345.6  470.4   515.5
Lesotho                                    51.1   53.3   54.3   53.3    53.7
3. TOTAL ASSETS
Lesotho Bank                              235.5  278.8  301.4  373.2   432.2
Other banks                               140.0  169.1  176.6  243.4   273.5
Total All banks                           375.5  447.9  478.0  616.6   705.7
Lesotho Bank percentag                     62.7   62.2   63.1   60.5    61.2
4. TOTAL ADVANCES INCLUDING LOANS
Lesotho Bank                               75.2   86.4   93.2  120.4   135.3
Other banks                                53.1   73.1   82.6   85.0   106.5
Total All banks                           128.3  159.5  175.7  2.5.4   241.8
Lesotho Bank percentage                    58.6   54.2   53.0   58.6    56.0
5. FIXED ASSETS
Lesotho Bank                               22.7   24.4   25.2   27.3    29.0
Other banks                                 3.6    4.5    6.1    6.4      7.6
Total All banks                            26.3   29.0   31.3   33.7    36.6
Lesotho Bank percentage                    86.3   84.3   80.4   81.0    79.2
6. BALANCES 1ITH CENTRAL BANK OF LESOTHO
AND OTIER ItBAURS INCLUDING CASH AND
SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS
Lesotho Bank                              134.5  156.5  162.2  211.0  241.3
Other banks                                75.1  68.5   76.3  130.4   151.9
Total All banks                           209.6  225.0  238.5  341.4   393.2
Lesotho Bank percentage                    64.2   69.6   68.0   61.8    X .4
Sources   Lesotho Bank, Annual Report.



- 81 -
Annex III
Page 3 of 7
Table 3.3
Comparative Performance Lesotho Bank and other Banks
1984    1985   1986   1987  1988*  1989
Return on Average Assets
Lesotho Bank                    4.61     4.02   2.02   1.52  2.72   4.12
Standard and Barclays          4.42      4.52   2.22   1.92  3.5X   5.41
All Banks*                      4.52     4.22   2.92   1.72  2.92   4.4Z
Note:   For 1988 and 1989, Information on Barclays Bank was not available,
and is therefore excluded from comparisons in this table.
Table 3.4s Monetary Survey
(maloti millions)
1986        1987        1988       1989
Net Foreign Assets       231.5        188.2        191.9      171.4
Central Bank           161.4        127.9        130.8      100.2
Commercial Banks        70.1         60.3         61.1       71.2
Domestic Credit          187.8         285.1       405.8      460.6
Claims on Government   94.5         174.3        245.7      281.0
Claims on Pvt Sect.    93.3         110.8        160.1      179.6
Other Items Net           76.0        -86.2       -107.7      -97.6
Money and Quasi Money   343.3          387.1       490.0      534.4
Narrow Money           143.4        156.8        219.9      243.7
Quasi Money            199.9        230.3       -270.1      290.t
Source: Central Bank of Lesotho.



- 82 -
Annex III
Page 4 of 7
Table 3.5: Selected Ratios of the Commercial Banks
(percent)
Liquidity       Capital       Local Asset
Ratio          Ratio          Ratio
(1)            (2)             (3)
1982                      56.4            3.0           80.3
1983                      66.1            4.0           85.5
1984                      67.5            4.7           80.2
1985                      61.5            3.8           76.8
1986                      63.5            3.7           85.4
1987                      64.0            3.8           98.5
1988:1                    66.0            3.4           86.7
1988:2                    63.2            3.2           83.3
1988:3                    62.4            3.0           89.5
1988:4                    67.6            3.1           93.8
1989s1                    60.6            2.9           92.8
1989X2                    63.7            2.9           88.9
(1) = Liquid Assets/Liabilities to the Public in Lesotho
(2) - Capital/Liabilities to the Public in Lesotho
(3) - Local Assets/Total Assets



- 83 -
Annex III
Page 5 of 7
Table 3.6. Distribution of Cormercial Bank Deposits by Type
(M million)
Demand                                MLners
& Call      Savings       Time        Deferred
Deposits    Deposits   Deposits    Pay Fund   TOTAL
1981     57.48         42.51      12.70         36.23      148.92
1982     66.96        48.72       15.49         50.35      181.52
1983     69.92        64.08       17.20         58.37      209.57
1984     87.73         74.00      16.91         62.61      241.25
1985    123.31         92.23      23.92         63.91      303.37
1986    141.18       111.89       24.91         68.33      346.31
1987    140.38       134.67       37.83         65.28      378.16
1988sl  169.98       142.66       41.54         73.11      427.29
1988:2  181.68       150.07       40.55         78.48      450.78
1988:3  197.38       154.94       40.11         84.94      477.37
1988t4  193.81       166.71       39.60         71.99      472.11
1989sl  207.61       175.07       45.20         71.76      499.64
1989:2  221.74       178.62       45.08         76.99      522.43
(percent)
Demand                               Miners
& Call      Savings        Time       Deferred
Deposits    Deposits   Deposits    Pay Fund   TOTAL
1981     38.6?         28.5?       8.52         24.32      100.O0
1982     36.9a         26.82       8.5         27.72      100.0?
1983     33.42         30.6?       8.22         27.9?      100.O0
1984     36.42        30.7?        7.01         26.0?      100.O0
1985     40.6?         30.4?       7.9Z         21.1?      100.O0
1986     40.8?         32.32       7.2S         19.72      100.O0
1987     37.12         35.6?      10.0?         17.3?      100.O0
1988:1   39.8?         33.42       9.72         17.1?      100.0?
1988s2   40.3?        33.3?        9.0?         17.4?      100.O0
1988:3   41.3?        32.5?        8.4?         17.8?      100.0?
1988t4   41.1?        35.32        8.42         15.2?      100.0?
1989:1   41.6?         35.0?       9.02         14.42      100.O0
1989:2   42.4?         34.2?       8.6?         14.7Z      100.O0



-Annex II
- 84 -                      Page 6 of 7
Table 3.7 Co    cial Bank's Loans and Avances to  uguiness
Entezuzisea and Statutory odies tend of Derigd)
(M millions)
June
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Agriculture                    3.53   4.28   4.78   2.36   3.96
Mining                         0.05   0.06   0.07   0.08   0.70
Manufacturing                  2.76   3.79   5.06  10.99  11.15
Electricity, gas, water        1.69   0.42   0.61   7.58   7.74
Construction                  6.91   7.37   8.54  22.73  29.37
Wholesale & retail trade    31.72  28.57  33.45  33.20  42.75
Transport & storage            2.77   4.43   2.23  13.67  16.36
NBFI's and real estate        2.25   1.75   2.43   7.48   2.27
Community & social            4.38   5.22   4.43   8.40   9.27
TOTAL                        56.06  55.89  61.60 106.49 123.57
of which
Business Enterprises       44.80  44.82  53.99  82.45  95.95
Statutory Bodies           11.26  11.07   7.61  24.05  27.62
(percent of total)
Aqriculture                    6.30   7.66   7.76   2.22   3.20
Mininq                         0.09   0.11   0.11   0.08   0.57
Manufacturing                  4.92   6.78   8.21  10.32   9.02
Electricity, gas, water       3.01   0.75   0.99   7.12   6.26
Construction                  12.33  13.19  13.86  21.34  23.77
Wholesale & retail trade    56.58  51.12  54.30  31.18  34.60
Transport & storage            4.94   7.93   3.62  12.84  13.24
NBFI's and real estate         4.01   3.13   3.94   7.02   1.84
Cozuunity & social             7.81   9.34   7.19   7.89   7.50
TOTAL                        100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
Source:- Central Bank of Lesotho
;'.



- 85 -
Annex III
Table 3.8                                 Page 7 of  7
A Com_rtlm   of Av.erp tnterest Rates In Loetho end to Seuth Africa
I   I  LMIdinr Ottl                                 Sorrowin, Rntes 
*er   I avg  Pris, Prlm _   Call Acet.   t1 Dy ToralSavins Aect.t 06 Coy Torno Month T*r l I Year Tors
Quarter  LIES  LIS   NUA  IL OSA N          LlS   NA  I LIS    SA I   LES   NU    LES   NUA  ILlS   RSA  I
194stl   1 7.   14       21 ITr       E1TIrF 1                         12.  11.71 1.2   to F    to. 1tTT 
I     :2 1 1.8  14        n   12.7  17.0 I 18.4  1S.. 1            0 9  18.4   13 I 12.7  17.0  12.2   17 I
I     :8 1 21.8   14     is1t.2    2 11s.0    is   10   10.4,   16    281   18    22 12.7    1s I
I     :41   21   20      24 11.2    21 11.1    22          10   10.4,   16    20 118.2  20.6 112.7    19 1
191t:1 122.2   22    2a1 1.t    2n   17 22.6,   12  10.4 17.1  22.J 14.6  21.01  1i  20.5 1
I     :2  21.4   10      221   18    17  14.0  17.6    11   10.  s18.$    17 11.5   s11 11.2   Is I
I     :8 1 21.5  1t   10.5 I  12  15.5 I  12  14.5    .5    *.0   11.5  14.5 a 10.5  18.5 1  10   18 I
:4 I 17.8   15   10.6    9.2  18.5    9.5  18.5   0.8    6.1 5 9.9  18.3 1  10  18.5 I 10.7   14 1
I 1960:1  10.4   14   16$    0 *.2  18.8 I   *  1.8 I   7   7.0 I *.0    18  -.J  12.6 5 10.8  18.8
I     :2 115.    18   14.51  7.6  10.01 7.5  11.85    7   7.4    7.5   St    7.6   11   9.1    121
5      :J  151.   10   18.i6   5 .0  10.0      a   9.0      7      75  0.2   9.51  5.7  90.             9.51
I     :41   15  18       12    4.    0..      5 *.1   *.5  0 *.7    0.4    5.4   6.01  4.9   9.5t  5.7   9.5t
5 10tl 1 12.0  11   12.61  4.8   6Sf  4.6   6.5   0.2    5.7l    a   *.5   4.7   0.01  6.7    105
1     :21   14  11   12.5  4.8 .       0.    4.0   6.05    6    5.71          8 6.0 47       0   5.7    101
1     :8 1 1.0  11   12.    4.8   0.01  4.a  90.            0      0      5   0.81  4.7   9.11   5.7  10.8 1
:4 118.9   11   125 5   4.8    9O   4.6  90. I   0                 *   0.31  4.7   0.5   5.7  10.51
I 16:1 I 14.2   11       145  4.7    115  5.4  11.8   0.2    5.0    5.  11.1  5.   12.8 a    5.    1i1
:2  15.9   14      15    S 5.$  11.6   7.8  12.6 1   0   *.0    7.4  12.$    7.6  12.6   0.8  18.5 1
:8 I 16.9   1      10i   0.0  1.5    0 .1  14.   10.8   7.&   0.4  14.8    0.7  14.8    9.2    14 1
I 4 1 20.8  T 7    106.   15.0   90.   1. l   12.5   6.8  10.1  17.8   10.5  10.0           11   10 
1 1096:11         1i    1is               5            I             I            I            S 
Motes: lnterest rates ore for LosetW*s (LES) and South Afir ca (NS). * Iterest rates other than prime a;Nd
sving. ore the weoihted averae of rates offered by benbk  in Lesethe. All rate  are sd of quartr.
Source; Control Sank of Losotho.



- 86 -
Anunex IV
Page 1 of 3
Table 4.1t LESOTHO - LNDC Statement of Profit and Loss
(in M'000)
1989     1988     1987      1986     1985
Operating Profits         3,797    2,229    1,196     1,478        41
Extraordinary Income         36       28       63        292        1
Gross Profits             3,833   2,257    1,259      1,770        42
(Less) Provisions
(287)      38     (255)      (61)     336
Net Profit                3-546    2,295               1.709      378
Cumulative Profit
beginning of the year    3,948   1.653        649    (2,074)  (2,452)
Preference Dividend        (180)     -        -        1,014      -
Cumulative Profit/Loss   7,314    3,948    1,653         649   (2,074)
(end of year)
Table 4.2s LESOTHO - Suma ry of Profit and Loss Operation
by Principal Activity
FY 1989
Direct Lending Operations                    (656,000)
Real Estato Operations                     1,078,000
tnvestamst Portfolio                       3,33S,000
Total Profit                               3,797,000
.-a



- 87 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 3
Table 4.3: LESOTHO - LNDC Analysis of Profit and Loss Statement
Direct Lending Operations
FY 1989
Avg. Assets
Interest Income                            56S.000                    5.3
Interest Expenses                         (216.000)                  (2.0)
Gross Financial Spread                     349.000                    3.3
(Less) Provision for Bad Debt             ( 60,000)                  ( 6)
Financial Incoma                           289,000                    2.7
Other Income                                58,000                     .6
Total Income                               347,000                    3.3
(Less) Operating Expenses                 (949,000)                  (8.9)
(Less) Depreciation                        (60,000)                   (.6)
Net Profit (Loss) from Lending            (656.000)                  (6.2)
Table 4.4s LESOTNO - LNDC Real Estate Operations
FT l989
Rental Income (Ind.Estates)                         2,887,000
Land Rent                                              367,000
Shopping Center Income                                588.000
Interest oan Bank Cash                                 26,000
Other Income                                            58.000
Gross Revenues                                       3,926,000
Interest Expenses                                     (487.000)
Net Financial Revenues                              3.439.000
Insurance                                             (300.000)
Rents & Rates                                         (161.000)
Maintenace                                            (154,000)
Depreciation                                          (901,000)
Total Direct Operating Expenses              (1,516,000)
Indlrect Operating Expenses                    (959.000)
Income tr= Oserations                               1.018.000
Other Fees & Revenue                                   142,000
(Less) Proisions                                      (82.000)
Net Profits . Real Estate                           1.078.000
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                           



- 88 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 3
Table 4.5:  LESOTHO - Investment Portfolio Operations
nY 1989
Dividends Received                             4,085,000
Interest on Bank Cash                            299,000
Gross Income, Operations                   4,384,000
(Less) Operating Expenses                   (959,000)
Net Operating Income                           3,425,000
Misc. Income                                 148,000
Total Income                               3,573,000
(Less) Cash Pay Out                         (218,000)
Net Profit                                 3,35,.000
Table 4.6: LESOTHO - Analysis of Cash Flow Generation by Activity 1
Direct LeIding
Operation     Assets Applied       Return on
Assets
Operating Loss                   '56,000
(Plus) Depreciation              60,000
(Plus) Provision                  O. 0000
Cash Flow From Operations       (536,000)
(Less) Capital Repayment       (487,000)
Contribution to LNDC         (1,023,000)   10,629,000             (12.4)
Cash Flow
Real Estate Operation
Operating Profit           1,078.000
(Plus) Depreciation         901,000
(Plus) Provisions            62,000
Cash flow Ftrom Operation 2.061.000
(Less) Capital Repaymt (1,348,000)
Contribution to LNDC         713,000        40,853,000             1.7?
Cash Flew
Investmet Portfolio
Contribution,to Cash Flow 3,066,000          6.909,000             34.4t
- -   #                Total*
Estimted Total Cash
flow Generation           2,756,000         60,391,000              4.62
11  Interest Income and Rental Incomes are based on accruals, actual cash
generation would be less than shown.



Annex V
- 89 -                Page 1 ot  6
LESOTHO BANK
Table 5.1:- ReY Indicators, 1984 to 1988
(M '000)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Net Profits                     8.9    5.0    4.5    9.0\  16.4
Retained Income                 2.9    1.0    1.5    4.0/
Total Assets                  235.5  278.8  301.4  373.2  432.2
Non-fixed Assets              212.9  254.4  276.2  346.0  403.2
Total Deposits                195.2  229.6  253.0  324.7  353.4
Deposits non-MDPF             131.3  161.3  187.8  250.7  276.5
Loans                          19.8   27.9   26.0   36.4\
Advances & Other Account       55.4   58.4   67.2   84.0/ 135.3
Equity                         32.9   32.0   33.4   37.5   48.4
Reserves                       24.8   23.8   25.3   29.3   14.2
Non-Distributable Reserve       8.2    8.2    8.2    8.2    8.2
Operating Expenses              5.9    7.4    8.2   10.2   12.5
Fixed Assets                   22.7   24.4   25.2   27.3   29.0
Short Term Investments        112.0   77.7   64.6   65.9  185.7
Sources Lesotho Bank, Annual Report.
GROWTH IN REY INDICATORS, 1984 to 1988
(percent)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Net Profits                     1.1  -43.8  -10.0  100.0   82.2
Retained Income               -39.6  -65.5   50.0  166.7
Total Assets                   13.3   18.4    8.1   23.8   15.8
Non-fixed Assets               14.6   19.S    8.6   25.3   16.5
Total Deposits                 17.8   17.6   10.2   28.3    8.8
Deposits - MDPF                27.1   22.8   16.4   .33.5  -69.5
Loans                          -4.3   40.9   -6.8   40.0
Advances & Other Account       23.4    5.4   15.1   25.0   61.1
Equity                         17.1   -2.7    4.4   12.3   29.1
Reserves                       24.6   -4.0    6.3   15.8  -51.5
Non-Distributable Reserve       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Operating Expenses             28.3   25.4   10.8   24.4   22.5
Fixed Assets                    3.2    7.5    3.3    8.3    6.2
Short Term Investments         30.1  -30.6  -16.9    2.0  181.8
Source: -  LeothBank, Annual Repor.
Sources- Ledotho Bank,, Annual Report.



Annex V
_ 90 -             Page T o To
Table 5.2. Lesotho Bank's Loans and Advances to Business
Entergrises and Statutory Bodles. 1989
(M thousands)
Business Statutory
Enterprises   Bodies  TOTAL   percent
Agriculture                    754    2,260    3,014     3.37
Mining                         101        -      101     0.01
Manufacturing                 668       204      872     0.98
Electricity, gas, water       626    7,330    7, 9S6     8.90
Construction                4,405         -    4,405     4.93
Wholesale & retail trade   36,269         -   36,269    40.57
Transport & storage         5,557   11,659   17,216    19.26
NBFI's and real estate      7,048       160    7,208     8.06
Community & social          12,249      108   12,357    13.82
TOTAL                      67,677   21,721   89,398   100.00
Sources Lesotho Bank



- 91 -                        Annex V
PageSobT
LESOTHO BANK
Taft 53  D e   m   Stt_llmt, y        dd 31 Dec~
1985   1086   1987   1988   1989
INCOME
interest Receivable  31,023 24,828 24,151 36,019 58,661
Commutlon           1,2568  1,496  1,885  2,064  2,706
Other Icome         1,166  1,650  1,748  1,923  2,146
Foreln Currency     2.524     0      65  1,719  2.044
Trnsaction GaIns
TOTAL NCOME        35,961 27,874 27,849 41,715 65,547
EXPENDffU_
Intere9t Payable    18,818 14,138 13,203 20,017 36,011
Oeprecatbn of        352    404    430    523    582
Fxed Assts
Foreign Currency       0    389      '0      0    701
Transaction Losse
Operatin expenses    5,923  7,445  8,234 10,174 11,809
increase h Provision 2,000    500  1,500  2,000    0
for DoubtfW Debts
TOTAL EXPENDITURE    27.C93 22,856  23,307 32,714 49,103
NET NCOME FOR YEAR   8,868  5,018  4,482  9,001  16,444
APPMR0PATK0P
Proposed ODidnd     4.000  2,000  2,000  3,000
Transfer to Geneo   2,000  2,000  1.000  2,000
Reserv
Total Aoplatkon   6.000  4,000  3.000  5,000
RETANE MC=          2.568  1,018  1,482  4,001
Sourc  Lesou futc Anva Reports.
NOTE
1.           A provisbn for doubtfu debts ha not yet ben made in the 1980 account
Th  Is expocted to,reduce net Income for the year by around M2.0 amUo
ApproprIatIo for dhvkdred, genra reorv and (for th fret tis) ta, have abo not
yet been made froc the 1950 accounts to give an actu  retained hKome at th end of the
year.



-92 -                     Annex V
LESOTHO BANK            Page4-Y-
Table 5.4: Balance Sheet. ye"r ended 31 December
(M '000)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Share Capital             5,600   5,600   5,600   5,600  15,000
Share Application         2,500   2,500   2,500   2,500        0
Account
Capital Grant                23      23      23       23      23
Non-Distributable         8,191   8,191   8,191   8,191  19,191
Reserves
Retained Income          14,635  15,653  17,135  21,136  14,237
TOTAL CAPITAL AND        30,949  31,967  33,449  37,450  48,451
RESERVES
LIABILITIES
Dividends                 6,000   6,000   4,000   7,000  16,444
Current, Deposit        131,304 161,299 187:825 250,739 276,901
and Other Accounts
Deferred Pay Fund        63,909 .68,331  65,208  73,960  76,545
Due to Subsidiaries       1,439     837     857   1,115        0
& Assoct Companies
Liabilities on Account   1,947  10,386  10,060   2,968  13,869
of Customers for
Acceptances, etc.
TOTAL CAPITAL RESERVES 235,548 278,820 301,399 373,232 432,210
AND LIABILITIES
Cash and Balances       112,030  77,662  64,556  65,938 185,707
with Bankers
Short-term Funds         20,643  73,763  92,526 136,311  47,489
Investments                   0       0  10,000  10,000  10,000
Advances and Other       S5,395  58,490  67,173  84,005 135,293
Accounts
Loans                   19,848  27,939  25,995  36,384
Reserve Requirement       1,780   5,047   5,124   8,734   8,139
Interest in Subsidiaries/  699      892     705   1,640
Associated Campmaies
Deferred  5xpenditue       517      239      69       0
Fixed Assts              22,689  24,402  25,191  27,252  29,015
Liabilities of Customers 1,947  10,386  10,060   2,968  16,566
for Acceptances, etc.
TOTAL ASSETS            235,548 278,820 301,399 373,232 432,209
,..
NOTE:-  Therz is some mis-classification in the 1989 accounts -
between the items of "capital and reserves"p between "cash and
balances vith bankers  and "short term funds-;  and between
"advances and other accounts" and "loans".



Annex V
93 -               Page-5 or -
LESOTHO BANK
Table S 5:  Loans Made by the Prolects Unit of Lesotho Bank
(l '000)
Term of
Loan    Loan   Repayment
Date      Project              Applied Approved  (years)
1.  Nov 1988  Dry Cleaners            140.0    140.0         5
2.             Social Centre          246.0    246.0
3.             Social Centre            8.0       8.0        1
4.             Distributors            31.0      25.0        0
5.   Jan 1989  Children Wear           40.0      40.0        3
6.             Electronics             45.0      35.0        0
7.             Land Surveyors          20.0      20.0        3
8.  Mar 1989  Lodge                   S.0       S0.0        5
9.             Mohair Products        S.0       50.0        5
10.            Fridge Repairs          24.0      14.0        0
11.  Jun 1989  Restaurant             120.0    120.0         5
12. Aug 1989  Brick Manufacturers  3,170.0  3,170.0          *
13. Oct 1989  Knitted Goods            40.0      40.0        0
14.            Shopping Complex     1,125 0  1,125.0        10
15.            Herb Production        100.0     50.0         3
16.  Jan 1990  Sewing & Knitting       10.0      20.0        3
17.            Wool Products          150.0   A1500          5
18.            Leather Products     1,000.0  1,000.0         7
19. Mar 1990  Leather Products         50.0      50.0        5
20.            Restaurant              163.3     99.0        5
TOTAL                          6,582.3  6,452.0
Average                          329.1    322.6       3.6
Average minus brick project       179.6   172.7       3.8
Average minus brick & o/draft    216.2   208.7        4.6
..



- 94 -
Annex V
Pageof  6
Table S.6s Financial Performance Prolected 1: 1992
(II millions)
1989     1990    1991     1992
Net Profit                  10.15    12.14    14.13    16.13
Retained Income             5.15     6.65     8.13     9.63
Total Assets               387.11   422.21   457.32   492.43
assets not Fixed           359.59   393.68   427.77   461.86
Total Deposits             332.80   364.94   397.08   429.21
Deposits ExcludLng IDPF   256.21   284.92   313.64   342.35
Loans                       36.40    39.78    43.16    46.53
Advances & Other Accounts   86.56    94.S4   102.51   110.49
Equity                     40.60    43.36    46.12    48.87
Reserves                    33.35    36.45    39.54    42.64
Operating Expenses          11.18    12.48    13.77    15.07
Fixed Assets               27.52    28.54    29.56    30.57
Short Term Investments      81.41    83.21    8S.02    86.82
Sources Lesotho Bank, Annual Report 1988
;-.



Table 6.1
Lesoho Agricultusral DevelgpMent Bank
Finncal bJig ,tU  10M9189
(la Thossand Neloti)
Percent
Increase
1*M,        ISA!        II           198      lA1l1eL
Averae Assets                        9,300      14,058      22,568      33,860         264Z
Average Looam  to  3.t_              5,414       5,056      11,013      IS,900         3661
Avrtage Investments                  4.2"        5,136       4,329      10,313         143Z
Averga. VimA Assets                     "2       1,026       1,457       3,034         2152
Average Met V.rt                     6,9s        5,612       4,926       4,129         -402
Averase Loa-tem Loom                 1,06        2,0J6       3,542       5,519         4092
AverAge CIstGftt DeouitS             1,217       3,671       9,64       21,475       1,6652
Prfit and t   A_e u
Opoerting Inco a                     1,459       1,320       2,544       4,216         1892
Operating Costs                      1,19        1,9t        3,039       4,645         297X
Stoff 6-l i                      ( 111 )    (1,064 )    (1,532 )    (2,541 )        2302                           qh
siss of Staff
Avetage *A&e  of Staff                  80         109         163         226         1832
Average Aasetsjlloye0                  116         129         138         150          20X
Average S&IAuy7161oyee               9,636       9,945      11,239      11,243          172
Operating ImcomemAvege aete         1S.6I9       9.39.922   11.272      12.45X
opersting CoatelAvocp Aseta         13.112     13.922      13.452      14.312
,J Average balace shet data refer to tb. arithetic average 
of two *ucceive eN  yar figure. 
ki In Heloti per *anum.
Sources  Leeotbo Agrlcultural Development *ank                                                                        N x



96                       Annex VI
Page 2 of 15
Table 6.2
Geosra2hical Distributgioof LADI's Ntwork in Lesotho
February 1990
DiWtrict                       Brch2s         Agencies *f  Offices kI
Ifewu                              2              6
Thyataeyneg                        2              3              _
Leribe                             2              2              1
Thaba Tee                          1 I
MohUlo's  oo                       1                              -
quching                            1              1
Butha Dutha                        -              -               1
Naf=ec sa                        -                a ~            1~
Total                              9             12              3
Si  Age"e provide al banking srvice. dwdg a ertain  mber
of days pe moat ranging tgn  two to (twv  days. The staff of an
age     Usually e.miat of saves eons (is., loM OffIcer,
two t*llr. tw  drives an  two s*eonty parts). The accounts
of sw essaci" ace ined with th1se of the brance  in their
dientats emepe for ome agency In Trataeemsn uhtc  repor  to
asemS The ageteg are mnne by the staff of the branches.
I Offtice  de mt offer al banking sagyics. They eceive loan
apL1ici    ad reopwant of loom. tah offic  is manned With
two offiers, All offleas rorlt to Iabar  Iranh.
Sources Leseth Arcasua Dewelopuasm Sank



-97 -                            Annex VI
Page 3 of 15
Table 6.3
Lesotho Agri4ultural Develougt Bumk
Growth in Staff. 1985-199Q
RNbcr of Staff
End of         d4naserIt          Seirr,                          Total
1985                  9               3              51               63
1986                 14               7              77               98
1987                 15              18              87              120
1988                 18              20             167              205
1989                 18              21             207              246
1990 (C.bmaq)        19              21             217              257
Sourcet Loth. Agricultural D_-  Back



- 98 -
Annex VI
Page 4 of 15
Table 6.4
LasotLo Agric ltural Develoomne SaBk
B-zakdown of Staff, February 1990
Number of   Number of
Number of      University   Diplom
Staff __ RDeresj' Loldgr. Holdrs
Managing Director's Office                  3             1           1
Legal Unit                                  2             1           1
Internal Audit Unit                         2             1           1
Planning &ad Research Uait                  2 I
Monitoring and Evsluation Unit              3             -
Computer Services Unit                      4.1'          1           -
Finacial Advisor                            I             1
Finance Departmnt                          15             2           2
Loas Oparationo Department                 13             1           8
Savings Department                         29             -           3
Personnel and Training Departmont           6             3           1
Administration Department                 _a       2      I           2
Total Read Office. MbSem reanch           132            14          19
Semoakong Branch                           15             2           1
Teyateyanng St-snb                         14             1           2
Moletsamn Branch                           15             -           2
Peka Brench                                17             1           I
Msputs.O Branch                            17             -           -
Quthbng srnch                              23             1           -
HOae Sek  stanch                           13             -           1
Thaba Tee1a Breach                        _.
Total                                     257            19          28
.~~~~~J
.1  Iin editist  two aw recmtdt  ac*  being tred  ad  cowputer
progre_re La gglad.
Sourcme   Loesot  Agrcltura Developenst Baok



- 99 -
Annex VI
Page 5 of 15
Table 6.5
LSogtho Atricultural Dvevloyment Bank
Balance Sheet for the Years 1986-1989
As at End De_ember
(In Thousand Naloti)
198i      1.211     121       t989
Cash on Hand                        88       144        359        694
Cash with Banks                    564     4,049     4,625         673
Debtors                          .M          6t4      1.690      1.18I
Current Assets                     815     4,867     6,674       2,554
Iav stments                      4,914     5,357     3,300      17,326
Loas to Customers                2,496     7,616    14,409      17,391
FPixed Assets (not)                990     1.061 Lfa             4.214
Total Assets                     9,215    18,90t    16,235      41,485
Creditors                        * 72        297      1,576      1,793
Tarut fund Accounts                 96     4-536      2105
Current Liabilitles                168     4,833-    3,681       1,793
Customer Deposits                1,606     5,935    13,752      29,199
Ordinary  Savin              (  701 )  (2,14? )  (6,669 )  (18,260
specal l 9btnaL              C 500 )  ( 970 )  (1,457 )   (1,539
Fid Deposits                 (  05 )  (1,640 )  (3,919 )   (6,529
Call Accounts                (    - )  ( 976 )  (1,681 )   (2,845
Capital Haug                      -)  (    -)  (   6)   (   6
Long-ten Loam                    1,217     2,876      4,207      6,830
Sbre Ccapital                      500       S0         500        500
Resezss                          L.4AM     4,fl       4.e9         iii
Total Liabilits                  9,215    16,901    26,255      41,485
..
.I
oqgLstaAralmslDwl  etSa



Table 6.6
Lotho Aricultural DevSlorMept Bank
Amount of Custmer DRgogits, Brokn Down by ?tat of Account and Branc
As of Decmr 31, 1989
(In Thousan  Ifloti)
XRLRM                Umi  9mka   lik  &lms o                                 mr  thto   1s.s
Orawy SLain           10,36    1,262        1,153     3,504       S0           359       1,109      18,219
Sp.e"ia Sv_              a 11   1II         231       228        52           54          44       1,539
via" Deposits         4,015       251        578      1,062        95          262         265       6,528
Call Accounts         2,327         a         45        127        23           75         241       2,864
Capitol UAser                       -           -         2                                  -
Total                 17$544    1,636       2,007     4,923       674          732       1,659       29,199
I
C
j  The difference betwee  the ordinay sd special savings accounts is that the letter require  * blhe;
miisma balance an  allo    fevr nibec of withdtaw'l pec mth.
Souk ce Lesotho Agricultural Devlopoent $ank



Anrnex Vtt
Paga 7 of 15
Is     s      g    SI  "
r" 
wa  i! X. X a'I  #;         I
j~~ I  XIX  
]~iJ                     I      



- 102 -
Annex VI
Page 8 of 15
Table 6.8
Lesotho Aericulturol Dov_lomaant Bank
Breckdown of toa_s to CustoMes.- by Branch
6A of December 31. 1989
(In Tha nd 14lotl)
Provisions
Tot Bad
Gross         ad Doubtful       Unearld        Outstanding
Ltanch              Lt-                 Debts        Interest         Balance
4"-mu                14,608           2,241            2,146          10,221
s.mowou                 717                -              30             687
Pe"                   1,250                -             211           1,039
QuthLg                3,494                -             313           3,181
I*lstse                 204                -              25             179
4aputao.              1,867                              3712          1,495
-oysosas                Gal                               12            589
Total                22,741           2,241            3,109          17,391
Souce   Leeh   ptmutue  Dv41m_ Bs
*s



- 103 -                     Annex VI
Page 9 of 15
Table 6.9
Lesotho Agricultural D.vloommt sank
Breakd@w  of Orogs Lome to CuStocs bi Two of Lgan ad Iranch
As of Docoer 31. 1989
(In Thousand Kalott)
Seomnal      Short      Madts        LOSS        All
Yaeogn            1,283       2,641       5,509       5,175      14,608
Semnk.ag              2         430         25            -        717
la                  (13.)        44         532         685       1,250
QisthLa             142         897       1,071         700       3,494
Noltsaa              61          31         112           -         204
Mapuato             los         228         323       1,211       1,867
Toyatang                                   il 22  its   211      . 601
Total             1,653       4,295       6,811       7982       22,741
Sawa"  Dined edwaz sInpl. by tbs Lsestho  gi.trlDvl,a
_s    sw3in                                                D
*  Ik



- 104 -                               Annex VT
Page 10 of IS
Table 6.10
Lesotho Agricultural Dov. loont s3nk
Braakdvwn of Investmntn
(In Thousand Xlotl, as of December 31)
Twoo of Inv stment                                                     1989
Government Bonds '1                          3,140                    3,140
Fixed Deposits a                                 -                    7,124
Call Account At                                  -                    6,702
esogvy  Requirement (Contral Bank)             110                      310
Ordinary Shares 
Total                                        3,300                   17,326
l     s Leme Ateel v                    et le.
Smr*** Lo              4 t_



- 105 -
Annex VI
Page 11 of 15
Table 6.11
Lesotho Agricultural Develooment Bank
Prof it and Loss Account fgr the Years 1986-1989
(In Thousand taloti)
1986      1987      19        1989
lateerst Received                 592       538     1,765    3,330
lnterest Paid                   _ 94        2j 776    1.566
Interest Margian                  498       241       989    1,764
Interest on Iaveetmeuts           534       595       770    2,143
Fee Incoae                        371       327       693       230
Other Incom                      .S6        157    _92           9
Operating Income                1,459     1,320     2,544    4,216
Operating Costs                 1,219     1,957     3,039    4,845
Salacies                       771 )  (1,064 )  (1,832 ) (2,541 )
Repals and Maintnaace       (  32 )  (  121)  ( 240 )( 345)
Other Oveheds               ( 416 )  C 7S2 )&/( 967 ) (1,959 )kI
M*t OpevstLng taom  (LoSS)        240    ( 637)  C 495) ( 629)
D9preciationcost               (  90g)  (  7)  (  167)(  350)
Loan Loss Provisons             L.941         -          .      -38
Other Costs                     2,037        72        167      312
Loss for the low                1,797       709       662       941
I I_ eudisg ea ammot of N 110 thousanW, quivaloet to
the 3o icu=rre due to the fire of December 1987.
kI Includitg en moam  of N 313 thousand, *quivalent to the
*sp easO inCured in staff train4ng prOeJouly finSaced
by the IAD project.
Sowrce  Lesoth   gcltua   Development lak



- 106 -
Annex VI
Page 12 of 15
Table 6.12
Lesotho Anricultural Development Bank
Coma-ison of 3udgeted with Actual Balance Sheet
As of December 313 1989
(In Thousand Maloti)
Budtet            Actual
Cash on Hand                                  250               694
Cash with Banks                             1,400               673
Debtors                                     __0               l.A187
Current Assets                              2,500             2,554
Investments                                12,785            17,326
Loas to Customes                           27,895            17,391
Flxed Ass.:. (net)                     .    340 .4214
Total Assets                               46680             41,485
Creditors                                   1,605             1,793
Trust Funds Account                         1.401                 -
Current Liabilities                         3,005             1,793
Customer Deposits                          29,280            29,199
Long-tema Loam                             10,500             6,830
Share Capital                                 500               500
Reserves                                                      3.163
Total Lsiibili:is                          46,680            41,485
SourcesU Lesetbo               velopent leak.



- 107 -                         Annex VI
Page 13 of 15
Table 6.13
Lgsotho Agricultural Develo=m*nt Bank
Co_a:ison of Budtatod with Actual Profit and Loss Account
For the Year 1989
(In Thousand Maloti)
Budia t           Actual
Interest Received                           3,340             3,330
Interest Paid                               1.200             1.566
Interost Margi                              2,140             1,764
Interest on nvoestments                       800             2,14)
'Fe Income                                    250               230
Other Income                                   75 2.
Operating Incom                             3,265             4,216
operatir g Cost                             3,665             4,845
Saaies                               (1,800 )           (2,541
Repairs and Mantenanct                ( 200)            ( 345
Other Overheads                       (1,665 )          (1,959
Otbht Costs                                   300               312
Depreciatio Costs                     C 300)            C 350
Loan oss rovisions                    C   -)            ( -38
LOs for the T"r                               700               941
Sources tshe                   De n lk



- 108 -
Annex VI
Page 14 of 15
Table 6.14
Lesotho Agricultural DWvelOuuent BSak
Changes in the Lendint Interest Rates, 1986-1989
(Percent Per Annum)
January   January  November   February
TrD of Loan                        1986      198j       1988       19j0
Aaricultural Loans
Seasonal                    12.02                 17.02       21.02
Short Term                  11.02                 19.02       23.02
Medium Tern                 11.02                  18.02      22.52
Long Tern                   12.02                  19.52      24.02
Non-Asricultural Loans
Short Ttna                              12.0S     21.02       25.02
Medium Tetm                             11.02S    21.52       25.5S
Long Tern                               12.02 .   22.02       26.02
Food *nd S lfweufficiencv
Irood DM                    12.02                  17.02      21.02
Source, Lesot. Agricldtural Development Bank
S.



- 109 -                         Annex VI
Page 15 of 15
Table 6.15
Lesotho Aaricultural Dovelooment Bank
Changes in the Interest Rates Paid on Deposits. 1986-1990
(Percent per &anU)
January     January     January       July       January
TVPe of Account     1986        1987        1988         1989        1990
Call ccounts
24 hours                         7.002       8.002       11.752
31 days                          7.252       8.752       12.252
88 days                          7.252       9.002       11.502
Fixed Demosits
6 month*           7.002                    9.752       13.002
12 montho           8.002                   10.002       13.15Z
24 months           8.252                   10.25Z       13.252
36 mnths            8.252                   10.25Z       13.252
60 months           9.002                   10.2s2       13.252
SaSinse
Ocdinary caving     9.002        7.002       9.25S                   14.502
Special, savin     10.002        7.252       9.252                   1S SOS
Capital    e                                10.002                   15.50
!I Since June 1988
Soures  Lesotho Agtcsluua  Deelopomn  Saek
a



BASOTNO ENTEIPRISES DEVELOPUMT CPORATION
ALLOCATED WOE STATEMENT (for ysr ended March 81, 190)
Sob.b.olsg                       Technical
Terds, a              Ceases   Socylos    Tetrox    swenes
Iedusq   NobseWa'  Merhobop (mW/hslt'   Costr    Ezt.sloe   Leon A
CguAto   1/  ""A 2/    (ood)   me"liL) (TaaltS.)  Service    Project.   TOTn.W
Ao coloulod to dto   /                       (77,)    (6,89)   (10,58)    MO2M6   (25,512)  (100,074)  (207,704)
id d Os                         402,50)   (5.40)                                       (8,441)              (09.07)
EIq lenst                                   (7,000)   (21,000)                                              (26,0 I
Frsltor &    t Fltre.                       (,74)                                                            (2,748
pie L4us   Irtstors                                                                                no0,927   209,027
Iwo latweres EXIS"S5             ( 0,717)                                                          (0,6,2)  (105,269)
plus SWd OebtC  be-, "t                                                                             10,440    10,440
lees Le    Fe                                                                                      (16.062)    15,062)
loo Pro's for SoObWtfl Debts                           (70,00      (4,07       4,641)                          .,)
Ise Alloo's ftor Op"pO DOp        (,900)    (0,900)   (1,900       (S,000      80600)                         (44,600)
Op'g Profit (Law)                 82,20   (109,2#4)  (115,218)   (81,652)    24,744  (2100,950)   8W.679   (009,209)
laow Al los'l for imed Offlo.    (75,242)   (41,014)  (106,067)   (01,7M)   (21,U64)  (142,252)   (60,162)  (499,005)
Tota) Profit (Lose)               (42,022)  (150,266)  (2s,660)   (50,815)     2,600   (09,206)    6,497  (660,212)
plus GowvrnetSubel.                                                                                           052,000                                  o
Lo"s Aftor Subsldy                                                                                           (215,412)
I/ Includes Nobel.'. Nuoo ssoretwlol  st
2/ laduetrll egtro eely
0, ame Asoao 2
net on metedsilou eedW for Wloc.tlosez
Opotloss opsr_tmts *llocotd $I sy  over rolovtmt aro"
Need Otlee tllo Wcaed Is propertie  to  col oer'se calorles a e"pl"e b sefits
O.5. Theo. Is  oalilbt discropsoto bet.... thes"  flgres and th  accountlg flguroe eo the op r Is th, audlted
flolsl eotemoest, d  to reonding sad  eer edjeotet. net r Wily oval loblS for tho roe date.
x
S-



t o
Ws-t umt mm.  -I't ass'.
sw e USe t         Ut n o-* nn
105    t   enus  see              u&u sA_s   Use
twon's lw'sm  sue.. selus  SSS  toolm  stus"                 Owns calms  "Ies' UM'u seg"                                               aiM  wUsrm rn uinoem            wimi
oplus      sem    r     s'a   N',"  Mt-o                  SWI'S si't"  "wr*  sot"  sles                                                                            m ,  wA"P
,u'es    ws't             @t west   Me's   "Vo'           Ot'll eSWI  weW. WA'=  JW*                                                               um@um  ew u
tus    59515  555'   55556   5505  5,515  mom         sou     tWe. eoo,"    into wte eellsMD gnu W_t
"AS-wt "t.o  uvwt ttes,"  a"til    me6eeee'"" lo  "t M-e  t   *W     GM.  ow     ow   M _ 
:'O:   $"'ti   m'am  turi    at'aso  smm   mWum;    'ars owsov color ealmor owilt-in  
suMIT oge,ens  ON.4= otern  OWING L5'W    s'An'el   aes,o ar le.. M."e.uaaase-s                                                                              SInt  UNG Wil
as'..:': e-gees ot*lw   t.'mi,  Nso'It  eas'nu   mea NoIon ss' s  MeIe t m ol s oe.t olsow moese                                                      SAW nuE1    wste
ase.    .eI&  m4,t g#'a9         OWn''  g 'e  eseeou    eset Neo'ms eaese serums ess'm   see'.    e              st   owt  sot e  Ws  ort   in            aW 'warn s
UsI   eet*5   u.s   on,    get u's   suen,      W         oas  sW'  Wss  s,r  as's   sas               go's   WI   go's  WI  W0%  40'S  Pn                 NUfMW 31A
uolvt   _@no  ono   0"p "        0.0  #"o   mon e"        oew1  cm-on oBeew eo"n OWN   '"lo           oeot   WI   001   MIT  Wtl  W'S  In                        :
- ug.'    VW"    ne.  own    t's  ownes mo                Woeet eues eeoswan m'es  swat  ores           seee   al 'W  sWI  WI  so's  in "$  "$    S
- U't" 9s9e    V44se   me"  Mtss" eVW"   sorest'   Qast eaee ases0 usin osw'    "u'a                    W"    401   0`1W "I  WI  40'    P           -t  1     3iwomI0
esrew    on,"  so,"   me,'  'ns,*%  "$ s   m's    e'os  eo',s 4W*  sue  usous   Uee5 U                  oS   M's   O'is  U-t  Go's  Olt   MIfLh 5854
M,%.   emit  O"I"  g"ut   "utI   obes   ease              aWe4  oWe  enars  are. ee.  aou's            eo      O-t 403   W-   403  U'S  405-  AM            .UW      mm
."    *"t,   W,t&  ,me'Gs                       QWIti    on, " em es*o"   S#t  50t'*  Oles OIe.    WlS'    Col    W0    405-   o lt  felt  all    M         U       oUV U
orUts  seo's   oles  got,s   ost'l  osv'-  torest    soees  aro   soer   eWo wees   Goae,              eo-t    WS,   -I1    -   "li  0,    M                        AO
ms*mU    ese   as' o    s' om   use.  os       moes       aso   mos  oas  aeeo   oas    aug            eros   ge    Ut  40s  *' t        *    IN                       -
on,      m's  oIS   M's    a's  on's   erum '   as's  eA   ao,s  as's  ears    ea,s                     ass    as'   W's eoil  401   WI    MN
WsI      tsm'e 'sV   whelp  e'    VA,& t  sst    leOs    oast cmes  Ores aore   ee    oarn eI          o e 's    all  551  "It  401t  0'S   Iw                  AW
arm'4   ms'eu  mIS'ez  eates   ess's  CMs'm   NOVIss     ewar  eaoonco am mon," se    muml             colt   40-1   WI'  0'S  40t  001   MN                      MD*me
sam ninmm 'ts
MIN'     e      5      0        ea'ss  sue,  ea's:           0  o           OeA'a  mness  us'so        so,*    wo,  W.'  00,4  W's  W$               AM JISUis. 'WIaL
ssg,e    a      0      0          , sum's'Wlr us's              e      s        -6 eass ast  us'us     01        -           -  W@1'                            W A 010111iS 1
uLse     s      o       a       ease   0       m'os       e                   us's.le        uss       s'              -    -   W11Zt  es     si mnm
tsrto   * o            o        0      *,t   m'es        a      e      e     0      m'eoo    us's      Go's      --- -0'                                                  l 
55'5    0       0      0        0      mg's  uSW$        0      0      e     @      use0   uso's       set1                             Is - g'    go"                    4
soUt    o       e      e        at    ^s't   us'sn       o      o         o         us'"eeo    eat     weo      -        -    - e-t     S eo-              US   Lw 
mW's       9         e a        a       m's   a'         0 s           a     a      ml    cm's         so's      -                            g                          ad
OWN'e    *      5                 ss    uPsao a                 a      a      mum  us's 'earn           a's      -    -          ass  u's 00-  me                    fu5bl
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sm  uu:e fsuam-W  <) 'inmates O_
1a-m8      gam
9  t  'WI"                       9~~I'     I    A    LI VJU 



> 44
mu  uun  us.; pro: rs s                     "AIl
mo    m         .P,   m.                        5*1 sS.
Va.  |"V'   t"   *.                           VWs         M.   til l  MIT  M's  M 6                                                                               ootw
"4  146'W   O'S  3.96' LlS" *4    slop: me'SCt' UwoIW    .6tl'as ILtlOW   'loS mass    m                          _Wmms es  ser svs
S'S  396'  19tl' tt'          661':i  O'    OW'IS      0We'Wt 55W'? 111O'?il m's  WOW'S                                                           126fl  _ 
M-se  oLS:6  Va36   VaSle   S*3'W   M."W 0Galin         000'SA 0'S   w'es 4603 OUDIT6                                                               Sul   n         1p%
mlWn  to*   Ise *IWO9  1066't   980:k  0696   460'uoiW   000'4 0OM'1 O00'GO SWU'3S 460'f                                                             Skim `'WIll "l' P
nw      M,'U"IV M466Os59   9   M9  M6'O  US? s, Nsin,:   MINXu Ga,'= Galva tm 3 500,119                                                                     1104=   -wiL
IWI   low,4"   91646,0   "a,"   911'9  95wI0  a460''t?   0*U owas wor  Go,= Galva                                                                s     iisem  'WAL
Go 65 6,14   VA1'O    W6 O    ShW'46aI    w,&'  ow'lLn   010111 00013 000'1K OM-Itsa01                   W     el   Ow'15W         ws    a          'WA   mmS WAIAU
* oss'o  ooo's  S~~O'S  ms aW's us'  osmo'    IWS4W * or'ar    toll                    46'W   in          wnxslld
Wt4     ttot  t *W     $Wt     "Wst   ant  tAl 60?   46    46W   46'W   61                                                                      uv t O      
531US     56  '6t
n"VAO  ewl   Owl   SWIM              '" a  a    wn      NoW   wo; Gola  e0's  tee'n                                                                _ tt R    t'soII  24 In  mmmw%
sw'1n 61  'M  ASg'35  SWg'S   *66'S  LW'S  QW0QK       OW4L QOG'49 OW4O  OW'S  MOW'                                                               5VWSW    'WhOlES
00            0       0       0      0
NS'PL  OW'S?  46191  356'fl  636'9  536'9W   OWoas    00mg, OW' t   OW'O     ' O t9   W'*   OW'S IOW   4'tM  *G      46s   *05   *5    60              MIlEIISUEI O
61146  0  0  0       618.51  59665"a,   OW'W  0     0      0      O,Wlon,"l                                                            Am 111in  'WiAL
*   0   0   0    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o-o                             mlsG'
16*6   0  0  0       46*0  0~~~~au'   mOW'46         0 0           WO  S01    O'0I41               4646'W                  -   5                     31113Mw
165'S   0  0  0      0      0556~~~tnl   on," 0     0             0      w"'0   OW'0  001                                       m$ -  46W    6)0
**6'9   0  0  0      0      953'S~~~am:   00:0'  0                       M'00sWO    call  001                            o    4wl   ON        US    A6 16
OW'S   0  0     0~~~0   o  et    'S  OWt       0mGA           0:      La  000'S   OW'S   41  oge                        .   001t   ofvio
Z'8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29 ANINAM
VWIOL    I                                                                          I       Wn             Am60am1 WI"WL S  9  5    I   116
-W6l~~~------ -- "--------"-------- -----         --- ---.q-'------- ---
WOW               3.NJAP -ASSAPO MANW
re riavz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



RNbU      __L AMe           ONVELOF10e E   MRJE                                               TABLE  8.3
OwAIL  c05: IND            ff me WIN  MTMQ
- -- -----_- __X;*f-.--- ------                         - -------------------------      -------------^*----------------*----------------- *6------- --------------.
Wm01  I      2      S      4      5    TOTAL   OIr COST            a        2        8              5  TOTAL           1       2       8        4        a  TOTAL
1. DWUTUE  ranST
TEnAO    MTSUALS             La  0.10  0.20   0.20  0.20  o.30         1.00      0o.00o    8.000    8.o0    6,C00  6,00 9.000   80.000   1,125   2.250   2.250   2.260  3S375    11.240
NM eF  _36                   La  0.10  0.20   0.20  G.20  0.80         1.00      20.00    2.000    4.000    4,000  4.00   6,000   20.000         780   1,s00    1,5o    L.OO    2.250    7.4"
6*35.w                       La  0.10  0.20   0.10  0.20  0.80    1.00           2.4000    2.8o    5,00       5.000  5.000  7.50o   25.000 e37   La75    1.075   1.675   2.*17    0.374
s8M. D_TU# cow                                                                                   7.c00    IS.0    15.000  1.000 22.0o   75.000   2,612   ,6624   5.624  0.6             .46  2a.121
U.ffoXM  me51
 6M.0am
0       0        0       0        0        0
hfWM   7 AMM              N    1.20  L.O    1.00  1.0e  1.00    8.00          25.000   25.400    25.000   25.000 25,000 25000  125.000   0.874   0,274    .874    0.874    0.374   456.69
6OPWOAL. MM=*                                                                       25.000   25.66    254000   25.060 25,000 15.0o0   15.0o0   9.S74   0.874   0.874   0.874   0.84    "6.60
o    136a13311  oriP 16*         1 .00 8.00.60 SOLOS 419.0046.10 1,.0F7.00             eo    2.760      .000   920.60  25.10  n7,6       ff.420    .085   0.749   5.57n    9.426   10.371   8.1
ro7AL.         6m PAN                                                                           27.760   4.000   47.6*   0,u10  82,60        1.420   10.46   18.13   17.945   W.OO    t.74"    S.022
TOTAL. a  I'l51 0                                                                              .6    8.000   62.60  65.140 7.160   26.420  18.221  21747  2a.570  24.424   25,181   111.144
of  i.bsz 0.CM                                                                            25760   47.000       .6  54.10  58.60O  241.420  11.1    2762    10448   20.00   21905   60621
of lellt                                                                                   8.80 S0D  11.000    1.00  11,000 u, .80    5.000   2.062   4.12    4.126   4.124    S.167   20.622
-I  comcm
LOCAL Pa    CMm 22    6.815    7260  7?.0    7.626 2                                                                                   1.242     S7   2.hs    2.722   2.740   2.8S         11.714
F        mms      -                                                                          1t        5        6t  o    m17    76     2.481      46      192      10      194      294      919
TOMWL. P330o6 0                                                                            28.61    7.7        7.M   76*   6.410   SM.69 #        66    2.747   2.918    2.,4    S.18      12.688
TOTAL.  AOMm OaU#                                                                            8.M    06,07    70,60  72N ,6 8.579   ,011   14,106  24,494  26.43  27.8    81.86    125.777
101  19     19      1994  to 
LOCAL. 5330C007660138M2           15.00 14.ee  14.0   1      l.001. u.
FOE= 530 C0#DCOV MM18              4.75  4.00   4.10   4.00   4.0
AN&6 MTISW 0.CM. 065*001          7.60014.800 14.000  1860  18.001
AM PAM 513U  sOWDiM               2.0 4.80   4.M   4.70   4.70
0
00 
'-4,



TABLE S. 4
LEW"
us_ .
VVAPW& as *In-sposom manes 'sD=
IMT  I   S   a    4    a  Ws    on an           1               9                                          2 4  8   n!K 1  9  8   *      MAL
A.   AtS SuvAMi LMa
L..I. mum               vs  in  i.e  i.e  -    -   a.*    am*e"   m11a.  MA5.   us.me              0           .Mt.51  U9.d'   gso.a'  sn.e'        0       0a
Wswum. mouvAi           vs -                .e  SAO s.c       1'.m0        0       0       0   171.1', 7.0100    134,'       a       0       0  te.m4  U.n.   Wl.O
mans  mav lwarno  w   i. .   .                  .   .   ass   5o^    M.M's                         0      *    sa.eos  1"cm          0       0       0      *  2us.e40
vuw.ur imai             m  $-S  e4  en 0.1  o.  i.0          sss.m      s.M -ses  M.M M.su tos.u                OMAN s.s. w.s.    *.sO    as.00 o         .s.    noo.=$
__ .-               n.ms ;a  en  em  eo  i. o. e   .e im     .mom    1.1           s    .me* 1's    MAes,M      M.M    i.'.   s.4u   W.42   40.m
maaU                                                                   m.m   as..   man   gs.m' simm'   ,ss.n   twi    ae.a   me.m* i.e..  i.s, o,s 4.ss
A.   e m'M m,                                                                       us,a in          .             ,.t no.=  wdo 1t, UmM to.ow
a.T. mu                 vs  i.e  i.e  i.e  i.eZ i.e  u.n    i'.i    _n's   #UA    twOM           .5M 5150,0   m.IitS   .B. 1it...  mn00  Itee' 115.5s  554's
mute                    LO  i.e  -    -   -         - .e     MM    M..    n        0       0       *      S0    8.                                              se 0  0  O  *   n.
p.. TM Po  _mL.                   .         .e.    .   i.e    win   Trim           5       0       0      0      ".we
anA.S                                                                   Ua.M    1.666  So."$  ma... MA.'   1s              nts.1 , 11  mt s.0s  ac.u;  m.m  an.00   7M.W
"M . M-  -         in                                                  a..a's   mm1   'a         344.14 "6"   4.'.11 'a? M'   -s..m p-e ._s 902.4                 .uS.&s
C. eqIMY iNNSINVK Ulm
Min VW                  vs  e.a  o.s . *.-  o.i  I.e    1n.m   n.m    ".n   n.m    n.m0  Jln.M                  mWAM    U.M    u.s'   a."?  emc    I.wc   mice.1
MaMma as ama  ON.       W   0.0   . . . *n  0.1  Ci  i.*      m.,  ".m    u.s'   "AM    woo   N                 ms.m    wOm    U.6"  n.for  u.4"   e0a   ato"
eMs. main              W    o.11    -    -       - .  *.      _.M   i.m                            0   a  *       n.m    n.e                 0       0      0   WA",
anlua USe                      i.    .   -    e    *   5.5               .l.ss 1.._                      e'       cs.m   W."$   n."             O      O       O    .
D. APU    A604  _
_0-w   1 1* ,O tUO  1 n <    
wa ge MD I Mt               *1.5    I  .   .    .   1.1    MLe.     e.uw   M,."o 0                  0     0         M   In.."      o.    0.s
UsmU.UA_U              W           *   I  ...    . *                  a MA"    MAW  Sm     o              * "soe .    Inoo  %n.M             0       *      o  sMAN
f_ooem ConooLu         W      A    I  *.F .     . *.8         Olow.   W..                          0," * o      mo.u    Mm   &m..            *       0           o0 mr.        S
AVV         W    0.    0                    A     MA m,e. A#s.         0        00                  i?.i    #.iN          *       0      *       S   "Mo'
qs.e _M                        4.4   S  *               P.O            I.Saft    .mi                  0      0 10.m 1.1  SesA    'S .U5         0      0       0e.4a's
S. mussy sWM.rnin ta'
paga.    mu's       _   vs   i.e       a -              .         ,.'  46.SI  m,0o.      ,           *     0      e.".ui   ii.m   mR.m  0e            o       *  aOs.Xe'
mat 'fM ete            W    i.    a  .   .    .   ge    m.o4  ai.s    M.A..                a0                            11.60      do.m     0       0      0  SU,A
aNUva  muWT   MMW             1.             ..5.    .0                518*" 1 A 5.5' MA"                        owsce   ineem   u..m         0       0      0  'smwo'
w           t aL                          0.  es  e.U we                4 1n,4    a.1  w,i                         p..        .       eI ".   ..  .sm         .    " m..
SIn*=                    Laa  m                                              0  1's.    1n.i'  311.. 11     5     61.5 MAO      0          4.SAW 0*.401  #T.G   *.nr
e. "ar lfmls             L.a  0.0  0.8  Ce   0.1  o.a  i.e      MAN   me.M   Iftm    MAPm   u.n  . cu              OeMA     n.e's  n0.e'   ISAs  20.40   0.e's   ma..
WM VW? OIOW0"    C                  I   a   ..   - -          m.n"   41.5w  4110.e.  mn"           0a0 M.Mo?   sn.w   a.e'  an..                     0      a m
sues memmem                                           mmm.e'~~~~~~~~~~IDA    1sa,na   u2.n    4?.e. 42.811.    444.132  0am's  0.0.s    ,.asn  m?.we  eia   m.o~.m
kw
MOAL 1550M. AMSiA7U                                                   5,04.5e 10,06.us 1.6474 1 .sei.ms 40.m0  12.815.475 a,m.W81  3.aes.m5  GS0.202 40.244 255510 4.68. '2336  k



- 115 -
Annex VIlI
Page 5 of 9
Tablo 8.5
Lesotho - Technical AwulLtne and Staff Traitnin
tor Agroindustry Dealledl  conont Cot  CM'O000)
company             PY 1    pY        PYs          Totm I Costa
A.oecnncal Asaanc-:
1. NAFC                0.0  1,986.7   1,935.?          3,371.4
2. LPCS                0.0  1,257.5   1,267.5          2,515.0
S. Poultry Hatchery    0.0  1,257.5   1,267.5          2.516.0
4. Milk Procastng PlantO.0  1,257.5   1,257.6          2,515.0
Total Techntcal Assistance 0.0  5,708.2   6,708.2       11,416.4
S. Local Staff Training:
1. NAFC                0.0    112.6     112.5            225.0
2. LPcS                0.0     76.0      76.0            150.0
S. Poultry Hatchery    0.0     62.6      62.5            126.0
4. Milk Proc_ing PlantO.0      62.6      62.5            126.0
5. Miscellanous Staff 0.0      76.0      75.0            160.0
Total Lcal Staff Trlainig 0.0    387.5   387.6            775.0
Total              0.0  6,095.7   6,096.7          12,191.4



116 -
Annex VIII
Page6 of 9
Table 8.6
Lesotho Staff Trainitn Proorga for Agrotndustrlal O w_lopm_nt Stoff
Compony  main Tratning Area          Training Yre Unit Coft   Total Cost
1. NAFC   Busines  Administration (MD)   0.6            60.0         26.0
Production Mansgement
(PM Designate)                 1.0          $0.0         50.0
Financial Management
(fC Designate)                1.5           50.0         75.0
F edlot anaemgoent
(FM Dosignoto)                0.0           t0.0         25.0
Markettng Managemnt
(MM Doe inote)                1.0           60.0         60.0
TotJ I Cotts               4.0          $0.0        225.0
2. LPCS   Busines  Administration (MD)   0.5            50.0         25.0
Financial Managomnt
(FC Designate)                 1.5          50.0         75.0
Marketing Manag_met
(MM Designate)                1.0           60.0         60.0
Total CoOe               $8O           60.0        160.0
S. Poultry Hatchory
Busines  Administration (ND)   0.6          50.0         25.0
Financial Monagemont
(FC DO signte)                 1.0          50.0         60.0
Poultry ProductIon Mnagemnt
(PS Designate)                1.0           60.0         50.0
Total Cost                2.5          t0.0        125.0
4. Milk Processing
Busines  Admintstration (MD)  0.5          60.0         25.0
Pl nt DeIry Management
(0DS Deal gnat)               1.0          50.0         60.0
Financial Management
(FC Deignae )                1.0           50.0         60.0
Total Co                 2.5          S0.0        125.0
Misellaneou  Staff Trainntg 16.0           10.0        150.0
Total Staff Training Program Cose     2?.6          80.9        775.0



- 117 -
Annex VIII
Page 7 of 9
Tabl- 8.7
Lesotho Technical Assistance for Aroaindustrial Doevfovment
Company  Specialists Needed    Total Manysare Unit Cost Contract Price
 -----         U '000------    _
1. NAFC    Goneral Manager                2.0       460.0       900.0
Production Manager           2.0       a87.5       775.0
Financsll Controller         2.0       420.0       940.0
Feedlot Manager              2.0       387.5       775.0
Marketing Manager            1.5       387.6 5     51.8
Lump Sum Contract Price      9.5       407.5    3,871.8
2. LPCS    Genral Manager                 2.0       460.0       900.0
Financial Controller         2.0       420.0        84.0
Marketing Manager            2.0       887.5       775.0
Lump Sum Contract Price      6.0       419.2    2,515.0
S. Poultry Hatchery
Genral manager               2.0       460.0       900.0
Financial Controller         2.0       420.0       640.0
Poultry Specialists          2.0       387.5       775.0
Lump Sum Contract Price      6.0       419.2    2,515.0
4. Milk Processing
Genoral Manaenr              2.0       460.0       900.0
Plant Dairy Specialist       2.0       387.5       775.0
Financial Controller         2.0       420.0       840.0
Lump Sum Contract Price      6.0       419.2    2,515.0
Total Technical Assistance Program Coat  27.6       414.3   11,416.8



TABLE 8.8
LESOTHO
CALCULATION OF PRICE CONTINGENCIES FOR AGRO-INDUSTRIES COMPONElT
o l           _ ot I
p11    Pm2    P      PY4   P1   To.       P1Y1    PY2    P1    P4    P1   TO"I
Totel se.s Coo     0  S0oe   6,046      0      0   12,101    0  2,2f8  2,238       0      0  4,W1
Pse.l C.et"pa      0    26      33      0      0      6      0    140    10t       0      0    t2
ToeI cos           0  6,87   6,3        0      0 12,75        0  1,    2,3m1       0      0  4,7
1991   10se  1t83  1904   1386                                                                                  -
Le.l Prle Contlngu,y   0.15   0.14   0.14   0.13   0.18                     *
.tpolon 1              0.047  0.046 0.040b 0.0471  0.0470
Lao"            0.07   0.145   0.14  0.18    0.18
For.lgn        0.02"  0.0465 0.0462   0.04? 0.04755
I0f
'.4



- 119 -
Annex VIII
Page 9 of 9
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGROINDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit (US S Millions)
Semester                  Cumulative
n? 1990191
First Semester              -                            -
Second Semester             1.5                          1.5
FY 1991192
First Semester               .5                          2.0
Second Semester             1.0                          3.0
FY 1992193
First Semester              2.0                          5.0
Second Semester             2.0                          7.0
FY1993/94
First Semester              2.0                          9.0
Second Semester             2.0                         11.0
FY1994195
First Smester               2.5                         13.5
Second Semester             2.5                         16.0
PY1995196
First Semester              2.5                         18.5
Second Sewester             2.5                        21.0



- 120 -
Annex IX
Page 1 of 24
LISOTNO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INDUSTUeS DVMLOMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TRMS OF REPERENCI
Technical Assistance - Credit Controller at the
Lesotho Agricultural Develogment Bank (LADD)
1.  Objectives. To provide adequate control mechanisms within the Lesotho
Agricultural Development Bank with regard to all aspects of the credit
process - application, processing and monitoring.
2.  Work Program
-    review the existing credit control mechanisms with a view to
improving and strengthening thems
-    develop appropriate monitoring mechanisms for credit applications to
ensure that both the applicant and the proposed lending activity
constitute a reasonable risk for the banks
-    in line with the above, develop appropriate processing procedures for
loan applications;
-    develop a proper monitoring system for LADB's loan portfolio.  In
cases where problems are encountered, to devise appropriate follow up
mechanismst
-    particular attention should be paid to the control of disbursements
and loan repayments through the branch net work of the bank.
Analysis of the amount and aging of arrears, penalty interest rates
and classification of the loan portfolio;
-    assist in the development of lending guidelines by the LADS; and
-    to train a local counterpart to take over responsibilities in this
area with-in a two year period. To also train related support staff
in the areas of credit control.
The required consultant should have extensive experience in development
banks within the developing world, preferably with an emphasis on
agricultural lending activities.
This position would be under the Monitoring Unit and responsible to the
General Manager.
S.   Trainina Program DeveloDmt.  At th. onset of the assignment the
chosen advisor would be required to draw a training program for the local
counterpart and other related support staff. The training program would



- 121 -
Annex IX
Page 2 of 24
include a phasing of responsibility transfer, and progress would be
reviewed annually by project supervision missions.
4.   Tlm4^s.  It is expected that the consultant would be able to commence
work in Lesotho by early CY91. It is envisaged that the assistance would
be required for a two year period with complete localization after that
time.
5.   Lojjstic. The LADB would be responsible for assistance with
logistical matters such as the provision of housing. Financial
responsibility would be born by the consultant as part of the cost of the
contract.



- 122 -
Annez IX
Page 3 of 24
LESOTEO
INDUSTRUAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMHNT PROJECT
DRAFT TEIMS OF RZFEUBREC
Tecbnical Assistance - Financial Controller at the
Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank (LADB)
1.   Obiectives.  To develop systems of financial control within the
Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank (LADB) in order to improve financial
control over the bank's expanding net work.
2.   Work Program
-    to monitor all financial operations of the LADB with a view to
streamlining and strengthening the institution's control of its
financial resources;
-    to take particular regard to operating expenses at LADB which have
increased substantially in the recent past;
-    develop appropriate financial monitoring mechanisms for the Lesotho
Agricultural Development Bank;
-    particular attention should be paid to the control of disbursements
and loan repayments through the branch net work of the bank;
-    advise management of financial mechanisms within the bank and ways in
which they can be Improved. Keep management fully informed of any
financial problems which may arise;
-    assist in the development of financial guidelines for LADE;
-    to train a local counterpart to take over responsibilities in this
area with-in a two year period. To also train related support staff
in the area of financial controls and
-    define measures which would streamline the bank's operations.
The required consultant should have extensive experience in development
banks within the developing world, preferably with an emphasis on
agricultural lending activities.
3. Traingg Program Development. At the onset of the assignment the
chosen advisor would be required to draw a training program for the local
counterpart and other related support staff. The training program would
include a phasing of responsibility transfer, and progress would be
reviewed annually by project supervision missions.



- 123 -
Anne: IX
Page 4 of 24
*.  !.4fis  It is expected that the consultant would be able to commence
work $n Lesotho by early CY9l. It is envisaged that the assistance would
be requlire for a two year period with complete localization after that
time.
5.  Logistics. The LADB would be responsible for assistance with
logistical matters such as the provision of housing. Financial
responsibility would be born by the consultant as part of the cost of the
contra:t.



- 124 -
Annex IX
Page 5 of 24
LISOTNO
inD STRIAL AND AGRO-INDSTRUS D         PVELOIT PROJECT
DRAFT TURNS OPF RFERC
Technical Assistance - Internal Auditor at the
Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank (LADD)
1. Obiectives. Provide internal control of financial resources within the
LADB and train the current incumbent fully in all aspects of internal
auditing as it applies to the LADB.
2.  Vork Program
-    audit, on a monthly basis, the books of the LADB.
-    pay particular attention to the auditing of the loan portfolio which
has not been seriously audited for the past three years. Such an
audit would be an important initial function of the internal auditor
so as to determiae whether the LADB is insolvent.
-    after full assessment of the loan portfolio provide input into
determining the adequacy of the provisions for bad and doubtful
debts.
-    provide information to management and the Board of the bank of any
issues of importance.
-    work closely with the ezternal auditors, providing information and
backup support to assist with all external auditing functions in the
bank.
-    advise management of any potential policy area which would improve
financial control and accountability.
-    work closely with the current incumbent and provide training so that
the position could be fully localized with-in a two year period. To
also train related support staff in the area of financial control.
-    define measures which would streamline the bank's operations.
The required consultant would preferably have experience in development
banks within the developing world.
S.   Trainn  Progrsm Deelonment.  At the onset of the assignment the
chosen advisor would be required to draw a training program for the local
counterpart and other related support staff. The training program would
include a phasing of responsibility transfer, and progress would be
reviewed annually by project supervision missions.



- 125 -
Annex IX
Page 6 of 24
4. TlMlua. It is expected that the consultant would be able to commence
work in Lesotho by early CY9l. It is envisaged that the assistance would
be required for a two year period with complete localization after that
time.
5. Logistics. The LADB would be responsible for assistance with
logistical matters such as the provision of housing. Financial
responsibility would be born by the consultant as part of the cost of the
contract.



- 126 -
Annex IX
Page 7 of 24
LESOTHO
INDUSTRTAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Technical Assistance - Consultant on Data Processing at the
Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank (LODB)
1.   Obiectives.  Advise the Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank (LADB)
on all aspects of computerization and assist in the implementation and
transfer of existing systems onto a fully computerized basis.
2.   Work Program
-    advise LADB management on computing alternatives with regard to both
hard ware and soft ware purchases;
-    training local staff in the operations of computers and their
particular applications with-in the LADB;
-    provide initial back up support to staff working on the
computerization of all aspects of the LADB's banking activities;
-    advise and improve on management information systems and data
analysis reporting;
-    provide special assistance and training to a locally identified
counterpart who would in turn be in a position to provide basic back-
up support to the computer personnel in the bank; and
-    advise and recommend on all other aspects of computerization in the
bank.
The consultant on data processing would primarily assist the officer in
charge of the Computer Services Unit in installing the IBM system.
3. Training Progpam Development. At the onset of the assignment the
chosen advisor would be required to draw a training program for the local
counterpart and other related support staff. The training program would
include a phasing of responsibility transfer, and progress would be
reviewed annually by project supervision missions.
4.   Timint. It is expected that the consultant would be able to commence
work in Lesotho by early CY91. It is envisaged that the assistance would
be required for a six month period with complete localization after that
time.



- 127 -
Annex IX
Pape 8 of 24
5.   Loaletics. the LADB would be responsible for assistance with
logistical matters such as the provision of housing. Financial
responsibility would be born by the consultant as part of the cost of the
ctntract.



- 128 -
Annex IX
Page 9 of 24
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TES OF REFERENC
Technical Assistance - Trade Testing Officer vlthin the
Hinistry of Education
1. Oblectives. The officer would be attached to the Technical and
Vocational Division (TVD) of the Ministry of Education, but would operate
in close collaboration with the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the
Lesotho National Development Corporation and private industry under the
established trade panel system. The officer would be responsible for
developing, under the trade panel system, additional trade tests for
priority skills areas as part of the industrial training role of the
Technical and Vocational Division.
2. Work Program
The consultant would be responsible to the Director of the Trade and
Vocational Division within the Ministry of Education for all trade testing
matters including:
-    administration and implementation of existing trade tests;
-    development and implementation of trade tests in other skill areas
not yet being dealt with;
-    development and implementation of up-grading courses for candidates
who fail the trade tests;
-    advice to industry on the development of in-service courses so far as
these are related to preparation of personnel for trade tests;
-    development, as one of a team, of proposals for a skills training
center in Lesotho;
-    development and implementation of training courses for local
examiners; and
The officer would requiret
-    extensive experience in the design and implementation of a wide range
of trade tests;
-    qualifications and practical experience in one of the major trades;
and



- 129 -
Annex IX
Page 10 of 24
-    experience as a training officer involved withs
-    training needs analysis
-    skills analysis
-    the design and implementation e.f training programs
-    the design of training facilities including specification,
procurement and installation of equipment
3. Trainini Program DeveloDment. At the onset of the assignment the
chosen advisor would be required to draw a training program for the local
counterpart and other related support staff. The training program would
include a phasing of responsibility transfer, and progress would be
reviewed annually by project supervision missions.
4. T!A%ng. It is expected that the consultant would be able to commence
work in Lesotho by early CY1991. It is envisaged that the assistance would
be required for a three year period with complete localization after that
time.
S. Logistics. The Ministry of Education in collaboration with the
Ministry of Trade and Industry would be responsible for assistance with
logistical matters such as the provision of housing. Financial
responsibility would be born by the consultant as part of the cost of the
contract.



- 130 -
Annex UX
Page 11 of 24
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Technical Assistance - Bankint wnd Credit Specialist
Lesotho National Development CoryoratiMn_JLNDCI
1.   Objectives.  To provide advice and a plan of action for improving the
operations of LNDC's lending opetations. To establish control m.chanisms
within the Lesotho National Development Corporation with rexvid to all
aspects of the credit process - application, processing and monitoring.
2.   Work Program
-    review the existing lending operation including expenses, appraisal
procedures, credit control mechanisms with a view to streamlining and
improving operations;
-    develop accounting systems and procedures consistent with
establishing the lending operation as a profit and loss center
separate from the factory shell and investment promotion operations
of the Corporation;
-    review monitoring mechanisms for credit applications to ensure that
both the applicant and the proposed lending activity constitute a
reasonable risk for the bank;
-    review lending guidelines and processing procedures for loan
applications and make modifications and improvements where necessary;
and
-    review systems established to control disbursements and loan
repayments, procedures for aging of arrears, charging of penalty
interest rates and classification of the loan portfolio and make
modifications and improvements where necessary;
The required consultant should have extensive experience in development
banks within the developing world, preferably with experience in Africa.
This consultant would work closely with the financial constrollerposition
would be under the Monitoring Unit and responsible to the General Manager.
3. TraiUln& Program Development. At the onset of the assignment the
chosen advisor would be required to draw a training program for the local
counterpart and other related support staff. The training program would
include a phasing of responsibility transfer, and progress would be
reviewed annually by project supervision missions.



- 131 -
Annex IX
Page 12 of 24
*.   !!ln*  The proposed consultant would be available during the first
project year for atleast a four month period to be followed by periodic
visits as necessary to follow-up on the improvement program to be
implemented by LNDC staff.
S.   Logistics.  The LADB would be responsible for assistance with
logistical matters such as the provision of housing. Financial
responsibility would be born by the consultant as part of the cost of the
contract.



- 132 -
Annex IX
Page 13 of 24
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INDU5TRIS DEVELOPMENT PROJRCT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Technical Assistance - ProPerty Management Specialist
Lesotho National Development Corporation tLNDC)
1. Objective. The objective of the proposed assignment would be to
improve collections, maintenance, evictions, and tenant credit analysis by
LNDC of its factory shell portfolio. LNDC's commercial real estate
operations should also be reviewed with a review to improving financial
operations as needed.
2. obrk Program
The consultant would review all procedures related to LNDC's management of
its real estate portfolio to includet
-- rental rates and the extent of cost-recovery for land rental and the
cost of the factory shell construction and maintenance;
-- the adequacy of rental rates to recover costs, provide for deliquency
and bad debt and for maintenance reserves;
-- define, if necessary, reasonable alternatives to full cost recovery
given the competition over rental rates within the southern africa region;
-- determine legal remedies available to LNDC to improve rental recovery;
-- define a program of cost effective property management including
streamlined credit analysis procedures, more cost effective rental
collection procedures, monitoring systems, etc.; and
-- implementation with the data processing specialist of management
information systems consistent with the new property management systems
proposed.
S. Tl lus. The proposed consultant would be available during the first
project year for atleast a four month period to be followed by periodic
visits as necessary to follow-up on the improvement program to be
implemented by LNDC staff.



- 133 -
Annex IX
Page 14 of 24
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-IND0STRIES DEVELOPHINT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Technical Assistance - Consultant on Data Processing at the
Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC)
1.   Objectives.  Advise the Lesotho National Development Corporation
(LNDC) on all aspects of computerization and assist in the implementation
and transfer of existing systems onto a fully computerized basis.
Development of Management Information Systems consistent with
accountability by major profit centers in the areas of Real Estate, Equity
Investments and Lending Operations.
2.   Work Program
-    advise LDNC management on computing alternatives with regard to both
hard ware and soft ware purchases;
-    training local staff in the operations of computers and their
particular applications within LNDC;
=    provide initial back up support to staff working on the
computerization of all aspects of the LNDC's banking activities;
-    advise and improve on management information systems and data
analysis reporting;
-    provide special assistance and training to a locally identified
counterpart who would in turn be in a position to provide basic back-
up support to the computer personnel in the bank; and
-    advise and recommend on all other aspects of computerization in the
organization.
The consultant on data processing would primarily assist the financial
controller.
S.   Trai=nin  Program Develoinent.  At the onset of the assignment the
chosen advisor would be required to draw a training program for the local
counterpart and other related support staff. The training program would
include a phasing of responsibility transfer, and progress would be
reviewed annually by project supervision missions.
4.   TIM4o .  It is expected that the consultant would be able to commence
work in Lesotho by early CY91. It is envisaged that the assistance would
be required for a six month period with complete localization after that
tine.



- 134 -
Annex IX
Page 15 of 24
S.  Lodetitc*.  The LNDC would be responsible for assistance with
logistical matters such as the provision of housing. Financial
responsibility would be born by the consultant as part of the cost of the
contract.



- 135 -
Annex IX
Page 16 of 24
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Techbical Assistance - Foreisn Investment Promotion
1. Obiectives. The contractor's objectives would be to assist with the
establishment and operation of the Lesotho Investment Promotion Center, and
definition and implementation of Lesotho's foreign investment promotion
strategy. The principal objectives of the LIPC would be to a) improve the
investment environment by focussing on the provision of services to
investors, by improving the timely provision of industrial infrastructure
and by correcting key disincentives which raise costs and investors
perceived risk of establishing in Lesotho; b) increase investor outreach
efforts targeted on southern africa-origin investors; c) increase image
building and information dissemination efforts particularly in Europe and
Asia and to a lesser degree in the USA; and d) establish linkage programs
between larger firms and indigenous enterprises.
2. Work Protram
Generic activities are as followst
Investors Services: Providing investment counselling services; expediting
the processing of applications and permits; providing post-investment
services.
ImaRe Buildin8: Public relations campaigns including solicited stories in
the media; the use of heads of state and top political figure3 to deliver
the investment message to potential investors, etc.; advertising in the
general financial media; preparation of promotion (information) material
like brochures, audio-visual presentations, etc.; conducting general
investment missions and general information seminars.
Investment Generations Advertising in sector-specific publications;
preparation of sector specific publication, typical investment and
operating cost profiles, etc; sector specific direct mailing and/or
telemarketing; engaging in firm-specific research followed by *sales*
presentation; initiating firm- (and executive) specific site missions to
the host country.
Specific activities are as follows:
--   Preparation of new promotional materials and holding of information
dissemination seminars for local investors to share information about
new promotion policies, i.e. new services available, the new tax
incentives system, the availability of long-term land leases to the
private sector for industrial development, new policies with respect
to the provision of work permits, etc.;



- 136 -
Annex IX
Page 17 of 24
-- Establishment of contacts with large company managers potentially
interested in participating in the 'patrons and 'mentor' programs.
These programs would pair an indigenous-owned company with a larger
company which would share advice on how to develop product quality to
take advantage of potential subcontract opportunities:
-- Monitoring of those contacts in collaboration with the Business
Advisory and Promotion Service to ensure that optimal efforts are
made to establish subcontract linkages;
--   Implementation of improved services and deregulation of the
investment environment, mainly focussed on existing investors as well
as potential new investorlclients;
--   Preparation for a new Image building campaign in the RSA including
the hiring of a public relations company in the RSA;
-_ Research to guide firm-specific outreach efforts in textiles, leather
and footwear, electric equipment and components assembly and other
simple, (labor-intensive) manufactures and the promotion of specific
projects in chosen agro-industrial products (e.g. wool and mohair,
beef, milk, vegetable canning, oil-seed production and manufacture;
-_ Recruitment of Basotho project officers who will handle promotion and
investor service efforts; and
-_ Direct outreach efforts in the RSA. Europe, Asia and the USA would be
actively undertaken once the service facilities and research
discussed above has been firmly established.
3.   Trainin.  The contractor would be expected to carry out a formal
training program for the LIPC staff in state of the art investment
promotion techniques related to investor service, implementation of an
image building campaign and investment generation activities. Training
should take place during the first project year and in no case later than
December 1991. To the extent possible techniques should draw on those used
in other developing countries which have established investment promotion
efforts, including study tours where possible.
4. Supervision. Following the long-term advisory contract, the
contractor would be expected to carry out intermittent supervisory visits
with the LIPC to offer advice, additional training and any needed support
that may be required to ensure the sustainablility of the investment
promotion effort. Supervision would include monitoring of policy issues
and investor attitudes and implementation of correction or improvement
measures as needed. During the fourth and fifth project years, supervision
would take place every six amnths.
S.   Specialized Services.  To support the outreach effort, the contractor
would be expected to provide market information and other reconnaissance
services in targetted markets in Asia, the USA and Europe.



- 137 -
Annex IX
Page 18 of 24
6.   Manatement.  The contractor would be expected to provide strong
oversight management for the contract which includes a long-term advisor,
training, supervision, coordination with the Business Advisory and
Promotion Service for linkage programs, and the provision of specialized
services. Management would be expected to coordinate all logistical
arrangements related to travel, relocation, and housing arrangements. The
contract would pay for these costs on an actual invoice basis.
7. Prequalification. This contract and the one for indigenous
investment promotion through the Business Advisory and Promotion Service
are central to the objectives of the proposed contract. Bidding
contractors will be prequalified on the following basist
a) ability to fulfill the terms of reference for both the foreign and
indigenous investment promotion contracts to ensure consistent
management and coordination of linkage programs;
b) the contractor must be an internationally recognized investment
promotion practitioner organizations and
c) the contractor must have recent experience with investment
promotion in the developing world with preference for experience in
Africa and knowledge of the special dynamics of the southern africa
region.
8.  Evaluation Criteria include: a) the experience in the firm with
special emphasis on the above prequalification conditions; b) the quality
of the technical proposal and its response to all services required by the
work program including training, management, supervision, and specialized
services. Budgets and financing will not be considered.
9.   Tg.  The contract includes 3 manyears of a long-term investment
promotion advisor. The position is expected to be filled by early calendar
year 1991. In project years 4 and 5, supervisory assistance is expected on
a bi-annual basis with terms of reference to be provided by GOL and the
World Bank on the basis of issues which come up during project supervision
missions. Promotion staff training is expected to take place during
project year 1.



- 138 -
Annex IX
Page 19 of 24
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Technical Assistance - Indigenous Investment Promotion
1.   Objectives.  The contractors objective would be to assist with the
implementation of an indigenous investment promotion strategy which
incluaes the coordination of advisory services for indigenous investors,
coordination of training in business skill: and entrepreneurship, and
coordination of promotional services incl-.ding information and marketing
for investors interested in the subcontr' _t opportunities with the Lesotho
Highlands Water Project and with larger .oreign companies.
2.   Work Program.  The contractor would be expected to provide a long-
term advisor for five years to assist the Business Advisory and Promotion
Service to carry out the following activities:
- - actively promote awareness of the business possibilities available to
small businesses through the use of brochures, newspaper
advertisements, village seminars, etc.;
-- maintain up-to-date information about the nature of the resourcing
requirements of the LHDA and the larger companies and define and
publicize sub-sets of those requirements which might be met by
Basotho enterprises;
-- identify sources of technical advice to remedy technical weaknes!ses
in particular companies, inclding, in the case of the larger of the
small companies, assistance in the identification of foreign
technical partners;
-- assist small companies with their marketing and with their promotion
to larger companies. In some cases, this might involve activing as
the agent for small companies in obtaining particular contracts;
--   identifing and promoting sub-contracting consortioa in particular
well-defined sub-sectors along the lines of the Lesotho Highlands
Construction Consortium established in November 1988;
--   identify, in collaboration with IPC, local foreign andindigenous
firms that can act as "patrons" to small-scale enterprises by
providng them information on sub-constracting opportunities and by
assisting them in upgrading their technological capabilities;
--   identify local senior business persons that assist and advise small
c-nterprises in a umentor* program;
--   support training programs in existing institutions in appropriate
areas of business management including marketing and finance;
--   support the advisory function in the Business Training Center;



- 139 -
Annex IX
Page 20 of 24
--   supervise the establishment and the operation of advisory and
financial services provided by participating banks including the
preparation of loan applications, assistance with remedial advisory
support during enterprise development, etc.; and
--   supervise the operation of small-scale industrial estates.
3.   Training.  The contractor would be expected to carry out a formal
trainiag program for the BAPS staff in state of the art investment
promotion techniques related to small and medium-scale businesses.
Training should take place during the first project year and in no case
later than December 1991. To the extent possible techniques should draw on
those used in other developing countries which have established indigenous
investment promotion efforts, including study tours where possible.
4.  Nmaatement.  The contractor would be expected to provide strong
oversight management for the contract which includes a long-term advisor.
training, supervision, coordination with the Business Advisory and
Promotion Service for linkage programs, and the provision of specialized
services. Management would be expected to coordinate all logistical
arrangements related to travel, relocation, and housing arrangements. The
contract would pay for these costs on an actual invoice basis.
5.   Prequalification.  This contract and the one for foreign investment
promotion through the Lesotho Investment Promotion Center are central to
the objectives of the proposed contract. Bidding contractors will be
prequalified on the following basis.
a)   ability to fulfill the terms of reference for both the foreign
and indigenous investment promotion contracts to ensure
consistent management and coordination of linkage programs;
b)   the contractor must be an internationally recognized investment
promotion practitioner organization with experience in the
promotion of small and medium-scale enterprises; and
c)   the contractor must have recent experience with investment
promotion in the developing world with preference for experience
in Africa and knowledge of the special dynamics of the southern
africa region.
6.   Evaluation Criteria include:  a) the experience in the firm with
special emphasis on the above prequalification conditions; b) the quality
of the technical proposal and its response to all services required by the
work program including training and management. Budgets and financing will
not be considered.
S.   Timing.  The contract includes 5 manyears of a long-term investment
promotion advisor. The position is expected to be filled by early calendar
year 1991. Promotion staff training is expected to take place during
project year 1.



- 140 -
Annex IX
Page 21 of 24
LESOTNO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVhLOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TEMOS OFEPERE
Management Contracts and training for Agro-Industries Develooment
1.   Objective.  In order to put the operations of the major agro-
industrial parastatals on a commercial basis, to prepare for their
incorporation as autonomous companies, and to prepare for their potential
privatization, the project would finance management contracts for five
agroindustrial enterprises. The contractor would also be required to
provide extensive training to counterpart management and technical staff to
ensure their capacity to take over operations upon completion of the
proposed contracts.
Preoualifications for bidding contractors
--   Contractors bidding on contracts for the Basotho Fruit and Vegetable
Canners (canners of asparagus and green beans with canning potential
for orchard and other crops), the National Abattoir and Feedlot
Complex, Lesotho Poultry Cooperative Society, and the Milk Processing
Plant would be required to have extensive practical experience in the
operation of similar agro-industries to those on which they propose
to provide management and training services.
3- Contractors proposals would include
a)   an analysis of the accounts and the operations of the relevant
company;
b)   discussion of major financial and operational weaknesses; and
c)   a proposed plan of action and a timetable for remedying those
weaknesses and for putting the companies' operations and
finances on a viable and sustainable basis without government
subventions.
-- Proposals will be judged on the basis of the soundness and realism of
the proposed plan of action and on the basis of demonstrated success
in similar assignments.
2. Timing. The project would finance management contracts and training
for a two year period. If management assistance is required beyond that
period, the cost would be born from the revenue of the assisted company on
the basis of a contract which would include a strong incentive component to
the payment schedule.



- 141 -
Annex IX
Page 22 of 24
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Technical Assistance: Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
Project Preparation Advisor
1.   Objective.  The objective of the assignment is to provide assistance
and training to the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation in
preparing loan applications and business plans for Basotho clients making
applications to the commercial banks for business development loans.
2.   Work Program
--   To develop project appraisal guidelines and manuals consistent with
the practices of Lesotho Bank and commercial banks in their project
lending division;
-- .To provide advice and assistance to Basotho entrepreurs in the
development of business feasibility studies, business plans and loan
applications for investment and working capital purposes;
3- To train relevant BEDCO staff and entrepreneurs in business plan and
loan application development; and
-- To plan information campaigns for dissemination of information
regarding the availability of the project preparation service;
The assignment will require close interface with Lesotho Bank's projects
division and other commercial banks participating in the project regarding
their needs for quality control of project feasibility studies and business
plans and loan applications.
3.   Timin.  The proposed assignment would be for a two year period.



- 142 -
Annex IX
Page 23 of 24
LESOTHO
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFE tCE
Technical Assistances Basotho Enterprises Develowment Cormoration
Financial Controller
1.   Obiectives.  To develop systems of financial control within the
Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO) in order to improve
financial control over the organizations loan and industrial estate
portfolio.
2.  Vork Program
-    to rationalize BEDCO's loan portfolio.  To take write-offs as
appropriate, to initiate legal collection actions, and to implement
restructuring and monitoring programs to ensure repayment in other
cases;
-    do analysis necessary to implement cost-recovery rental rates on
BEDCO's industrial estates;
-    develop a plan to control rental payments on BEDCO's industrial
estates;
-    develop a feasibility study, a financial plan and an implementation
plan for the development of additional BEDCO industrial estates for
submission to Lesotho Bank or other commercial banks for financing
under the project;
-   'to monitor all financial operations of the BEDCO with a view to
streamlining and strengthening the institution's control of its
financial resources;
-    to take particular regard to operating expenses at BEDCO which have
increased substantially in the recent past;
-    develop appropriate financial monitoring mechanisms;
-    advise management of financial mechanisms within the bank and ways in
which they can be improved. Keep management fully informed of any
financial problems which may arise;
-    assist in the development of financial guidelines; and
-    to train a local counterpart to take over responsibilities in this
area with-in a two year period. To also train related support staff
in the area of financial control.



- 143 -
Annex IX
Page 24 of 24
The required consultant should have extensive experience ir development
banks within the developing world, preferably with an emphasis on small and
medium-scale enterprises.
3.   Training Prosram Development.  The the onset of the assignment the
chosen advisor would be required to draw a training program for the local
counterpart and other related support staff. The training program would
include a phasing of responsibility transfer. and progress would be
reviewed annually by project supervision missions.
4.   Tjg.  It is expected that the consultant would be able to commence
work in Lesotho by early CY91. It is envisaged that the assistance would
be required for a two year period with complete localization after that
time.
5.   Logistics.  BEDCO and the Ministry of Trade and Industry would be
responsible for assistance with logistical matters such as the provision of
housing. Financial responsibility would be born by the consultant as part
of the cost of the contract.



POLICY REFORMS
KEY ISSUES AND VIEWS OF CONCERNED MINISTRIES/DEPARTLMtS/INSTIUrIONS ON WORLD
ItANK ATrE  I1p101RE OF IlIE PRE-APPRAISAL MISSION (NOVEIER 27 - F.DiR 8, 1989)
ON TIIE PRONrSI*i) INDUSTRIAL AND AGRO-INIJSRIES nDEVE.LPME4 PRWfr
iSSi1ES                       BASIC OBSERVATIONS OF THE                        FINAL VIEWS OF GOT,
WORLD BANK
1.  Adoption of tax incentive       A low corporate tax rate instead of the          The Ministry endorses the merits of the
policy to replace tax           current 37.5% rate would offer incentive          corporate tax (of 15 to 20%) rate instead
holiday system                  to investors; and would correct anomalies         of the present 37.9%, without any tax
(re: annex It p. 5)             and weaknesses in the administration of the      holiday at all.  Atrahsitional devise for
tax holiday and allowance systemm, which         abolishing the tax holiday system could be
should both be abolished.  Another               evolved.
expectation is that the lower rate would
increase the revenue base.
2.  Streamlining of work permit    Taking into consideration the need to maintain The Work Permit Board of the Ministry of
processing                      management control especially in the critical   Employment, in which MTI is represented
(re annex II p.6)               establishment period of a project, an element  meets once a week regularly to process uork
of automaticity in processing work permits       permit applications.  Expatriates submit
for key management personnel is requisite.       applications to the Conmissioner of
Also, similar guarantee for permits of those    Industries or tIDC who, after satisfying
employed under technical management              himself about their necessity, would forward
agreements could he considered.                  to the Work Permit Board, ensuring that the
Board grants the permit on his/their
reccmmendation.
In the case of a renewal, the Comissioner
or LNDC most submit a full evaluation of
progress of the training programme,
ascertaining necessity for extension, along
with the recommendation to the Work Permit
Board.
The granting of work permits shall be
autowatic in respect of the following positions
or thtir equivalent:   (a)  General
(b) Production, and
(c) Financial Manager g



ISSIES                          BASIC ORERVATIONS op 11E                         FINAL VIEWS OF GOL
*nRT,D PANK
3.  Land availability for           In order to alleviate delays in the               It is of prime concern to make the current
private sector development      availability of factory shells and other          land allocation policy more conducive to
and establishment of the        bottlenecks in land availability to              private investors.
Industrial Estate Corporation   investors, worthy of consideration is the        An alternative implementing modality to
(re: annex II p.6)              opening of industries estates for                proposed Industrial Estate Corporation
developemnt by private investors. This           will be formu.ated in due course.
could cut short the problems created by
LNDC's monopoly over land holding. The
proposed Industrial Estate Corporation
would hold in trust for Government all
industrial zone allocations and provide
standard sub-leases of at least 40 years
to investors.
4. Minimum wage policy              Given the need to maintain a competitive          Maintenance of competitiveness of Lesotho as
(re: annex TT p.6)              position for Lesotho in relation to other        an industrial location in the sub-continent
Southern African countries-or industrial         is of definite and key importance to the
locations, and to safeguard investors;           promotion of investors and the country's
confidence in Lesotho authorities, minimum       industrial growth. Thus, the entire
levels in the proximity. They must also          recomnendation is positively taken.
be gradual and be introduced in a
predictable manner.
5. GOL policy of 51% share-         The 51% equity requirement for LNDC in            Majority shareholding in resource-based
holding in natural resource-   'priority projects' could actually be serving    projects is a politically sensitive matter.
based industries                as a disincentive to investors.  Hence, large  HNoever, due to the practical requirements
(re: annex II p.8)              pipeline of projects in this bracket has,        of large capital investments for their
over years, gone wanting of investment.          exploitation, this policy is totally
Government could revise this policy as part      flexible.
of its investment prowtion effort.
o x



BASTC OMSESVATIONS Or hi nr WWIn) BRANK          FTNAT. VIEWS OF C00,
6.  Derexjilation of the            Yearly renewal of manaufacturing and trading    Rencr.l of a licence either for a manufacturer o0
industrial licensinrg           licences could have undue and burdensome         an exporter, is a brief and automatic process
process                         administrative implications for investors.       with positive revenue implications for the
lekce, proposal that renewal of manufacturing  Government.  The Ministry is not convincad of
licences be on three-yearly basis, and           the asserted inconveniences for the investor.
trading licences for exporters be                The licensing process must also be seen as a
indefinitely valid.                             vital means for alleviating the present
dearth of structures for statistical collection
in industry, inside the planning framework.
7.  Processing of financial         Steps to increase the efficiency of processing Central Bank feels that they are quite avare
rand applications              'rand applications could enhance the impact of  of this and is always ready to expedite
(re: atnex IT p. 8)             this facility as an incentive to foreign         sanction.
investors.
6. Line of credit for on-           Terms funds are to be provided through            This line of credit could result in higher
lending to snall and            commercial banks to small and medium scale       momentum if a concessionary element in the
.il,dilm-scealt                 enterprises at prn.'rniling market rates.  On-    rates of on-lending to the small and medium-
(re; I'. 3, annex III p.6)      lending form GOL to comAerciar banks to be       scale enterprises could be considered during
at the savings deposit rate.  Initial years    the first few years of trials and errors.            a'
of the scheme to test graduated payment
amortization instruments which vould reduce
(and capitalize) interest payments in the
early years of the loan.
9. Equpity funding for              To elleviate the heavy debt financing of new    TNDC concedes in principle to implementing this
indigenous enterprises          enterprise, and to meet Lesotho investors        line of credit.  But shall prefer option 2 in
(re: page 3, annex IV)          halfway in equity availability could establish  practice (see Annex rV p.27), due to the coper
a M5.0 million equity fund to be managed by    concern of recent GOL policies of taxing para-
LNDC, made up of funds originating from ID       statals    which may make the matching fund
credit to GOL. UNDC would require to provide  composite of Option I difficult to raise.
matching capital for each investment. And
GOL capital gaining shoutd be re-invested
into the fund to maintain a revolving
element in it.
StX



ROMSUl                         BASIC OREIStVATIoNS OF 'MM  "Olb BANK           FINAL VIES OF (GX.
10. Establisahont of DAfti0r       This unit would provide professional advisory  11he requirement for the strengthening of the
Advisory and Promotion         services with focus to appraise indigenous      advisoryand promotional service to indigenou:
Service (NAPS)                 entrepreneurs of the vindow of opportunity      entrepreneurs is acceptable. But the insti-
(re: p. 4)                      opened by UUWP, the construction therein;       tutional arrangement for fulfilling the
and the sub-constracting possibilities with    service vill be further discussed with the
larger enterprises.                            appraisal mission.
In view of the E IDO's present need to re-
organize, OAPS could be created separately
for the moment.
11. Assistance to LTC and LEC:     Nwrld Bank funding is available for setting    LEe appreciates the technical support in
Provision of adequate          up sufficient infrastructure in both existing  pipeline and has already rade due
infrastructure                 and planned industrial locations, vith          submission of plans and relevant estimates
(res annex I p. 1)             necessary services.                             to the mission.
1. formation of a coordinating ooumittee       Nonetheless, the Corporation would not
(under the new Industrial Estate           require the "mmnagement diumnsein of
Corporation;                              the assistance.
2. subaission of plans and cost estimates
by UrC and LEO;  and
3. offer menagemnt and technical
assistance to the infrastructure
providing corporations.                 - __
12. Establishmnmt of Investment    Over-and-above the basic need to install all   amL is agreeable to the principle of devalopin
Prnxtion Authority             els_ ts of long-term pckaged fOreign            investment in our prowtion strategies under
(re: p.3, annex IV)            investment in the prmotion system, lasotho    the Investmnt Pro tion Authority and
requires to provide a one-stop servioe         effecting a  one-stcpa service therein.
centre to assist investors. and to engage in   got to avoid creating a new institution,
effective image-building by applying developed proposes a promotion machinery that is
strategies for prowation of the countrr to     divided betwen the Ministry and tNDC in
foreign investors,                             the following order: create an
operational liaison desk In WnI and have
in UNC the investment Prmotion Division
strengthened. Modalities of operation can
be determined in due course.
oe
01



Sank Snervisico into Key Activities
Aamrozat. Sa ^tes                       ActivitT                                Iruected Skills (NSO
JsntIa 1991              SHes ia MisSAi
Prolect Launch Workshop
Objectivess a) ezplain to Industrialists                 Operations Officer (2)
and goveroat. project objectives and policy              Agroindustries (2)
refosms; b) detailed workshops on procurement            Investment Pros. (2)
and disbursements; c) review progress:                   Disbursements (1)
(1) aehieet of credit effectiveness                      Procurement (1)
(11) hiring long tern consultants (investment            Lawyer (1)
promotion, LDS, BSBDCO, Trade Test Spec.,
Agroindustries)i (iLL) allocation of Industrial
land for private developments (iv) comencement
bank trainings (v) discussions with Barclays and                                      a
Standard Sanks regarding participation
In lte of Credit.
June l99t                  aned vioA  Mis"si
a) initial mission of the LADS Consultant                LADD
teao  to develop Strategic Corporate Plang                sank/Credit (Cons-3)
b) financala  regulatory consultant to                   HIS Spec. (Cons-3)
prepare standards and regulatory frmwork for             Internal ud. (Cons-3)
LIDC Oquity mutual fund and general capital
market development                                       LNDC
C) prepae property managemaent progrm  for LUDC          Prop. Hngment (Cons-3)
d) prepare action plan to put LDCO's loan                Rank/Credit (Cons-3)
program on a viable basis                                HIS Spec. (Cons-3)
c) development of managemnt information systems.         Fin. leg'ltry (Cons-3)   *g
*                                SX~~~~~~~~~~



haproximte Dateg                           Act iytvl                               Exected Skills (SW)
OctiNov. 1991            smmervision mission
RawleW Progress:
a) Iplementation of policy reforms with focus            Operations Officer (2)
on agroindustrial reforms, lay groundwork for            AgroindustrLes (2)
privatiation;                                           Fin. Regltry (Cons-2)
b) development of regulatory framework for LNDC          Education/Training (1)
mutual fund and goneral capital market development
c) preparations for floating an LUDC bond issue
and satisfaction of other conditions of disbursement
of line of credit to LNOC
d) BEDCO reorganisation and development of rental and
teonat policies for Industrial estates
e) development of LADB Strategic Corporate Plan
f) development of expanded trade test program.
June 1992                Suslerisios mission
a) agreement with GOL and LADS on LADB Strategic         Operations Officer (2)
Corporate Plan of Action                                 Financial Spec. (2)
b) preparation for Beneficiary Assessment to be
completed by March 1993.
lovember 1992            Completion of first Beneficiary Assessment (eA) and
delivery to the Government and to IDA for comment
January 1993             Comment from Government and IDA to SA consultants
to be  included in final report
oe
Ph
N0t
a 
o x
bib



Approimate Dates                           ActivitY                                Expected Skills L S
march 1993                 useavision lusiom
Joint BankIGovernment Kid-Term Review
a) review findings of IA with GOL and                    Operations Officer (2.5)
Implemsnting agencies                                    Agroaindustries (2.5)
b) review progress in implementing policy reforms        Investment Promotion (2)
c) review overall project progress and adequacy          Disbursoments (1)
of Institutional arrangements
d) review project accounting, 80E and disbursements
Nov/Dec 1993               uuergvisoia Mission
a) review project progress and implementation            Operations Officer (2)
of recommendations from the Kid-Tenm Review              Agroindustries (2)
b) review progress implementation agroindustrial
policy reforms, anagement contracts, parastatal
performance, and progress with respect to
privatization                                                                      Vs
March 1994                  mervision mission
a) review project progress                               Operations Officer (2)
b) review outstanding Issues                             (other Consultants)
December 1994             suneursion Mission
a) review project progress                               Operations Officer (2)
b) review outstanding issues                             (other Consultants)
December 1995             FInal Supervision mission
a) discussion with GOL of BA                             Operations Officer (2)
b) preparation for writing PCR                           (other Consultants)
c) discussion and initiation of
preparatory work for future                                                        ^ N
project                                                                             W 1



MAP SECTION



-.  RC~~~~~~~~~~SOA"O  too                             -a                                  no- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lIEtD   142823
R   w    eet   *'s?- y                            +'   A>z4't                            7                          y ,
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO~y                                             >#-'ts  -                                   Avr
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"\ t ,sp.ow.  'O                                                                     Ov0N,*
7A3 ~              ~A
2133   -    h,,*   ...................... -'-'l ..... ..................... 80s.oT i 'O0D(Moao
E02715243               <       =        <         w ;3\   ~~ '''''' , $;'w' 'r/'  t~2) -o  nr 
o .7 -                                  o  o   0  n  oo  on  On
oo,4t,hc0' JYK
]  ( \ \ *~~~~~~~~~L S                                                                                               THO;',   ; r,._,  a"Xil
] ( w L4w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                           .aph.                                      ca OC 5  t _ SAt^
|  {vs#tXIc-aHAE9Ol 14S  f>' \ ...... ><,~r--ttiK..........................LSO-
f  tt   f  0~~~~~~~~~~<>>USt'W   PnA+ai (tp   v | S    a  /                      \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJY 90



