OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2195 LSO
LNDC Project Agreement
(Industrial and Agro-Industries Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated    4    ok                    , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2195 LSO
LNDC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated -4-er     V , 1991, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and LESOTHO NATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (LNDC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Kingdom    of Lesotho   (the Borrower) and    the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million    one   hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing    Rights
(SDR 15,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that LNDC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary agreement entered into between the
Borrower and LNDC, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
LNDC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Agreement; and
WHEREAS LNDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. LNDC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.2, B.2 and D of
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound financial


﻿-2-
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management
and in accordance with its statutes and Statement of Policy.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
Parts A.2, B.2 and D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. LNDC shall apply eligibility criteria to
investments under Part A.2 of the Project, based on LNDC's Statement
of Policy and shall ensure that such investments shall finance
participation in technically, financially and economically viable
industrial projects, including inter alia:
(a)   diversification by LNDC of the portfolio of investments
across a broad spectrum of risk levels, economic activities and size
of companies as follows
(i)   Single Industry, not more than 25% of Fund
resources shall be invested in a single industry,
(ii)   Single Enterprise - not more than 10% of Fund
resources shall be invested in a single enter-
prise including affiliated companies, controlled
directly or indirectly by the Fund, and
(iii)   Start-u Companies - not more than 25% of Fund
resources shall be invested in enterprises
classified as "start-ups";
(b)   that the Fund shall not acquire more than 50% of the
voting powers of a given company, unless such company fails to meet
its obligations and requires reorganization in the interest of
creditors and shareholders; and
(c) LNDC shall submit the first three Investments to the
Association for prior review and approval, thereafter the Associa-
tion shall only review a sample of Investments on an ex-post basis.
Section 2.04. LNDC shall by September 30, 1991, establish IPC
to provide inter alia: (a) investor services to all investors; and
(b) revise investment promotion literature to indicate the
Borrower's new investment policy framework.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. LNDd shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
in respect of the LNDC Project Agreement and Parts A.2, B.2 and D
of the Project.
Section 2.06. LNDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, LNDC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) LNDC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A.2, B.2 and D of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   LNDC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A.2, B.2 and D of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by LNDC of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.08. LNDC shall make no change in its Statement of
Policy which would materially and adversely affect its operations
and financial condition without prior consultation with the
Association.
Section 2.09. LNDC shall transfer any dividend or capital gain
earned with respect to Investments under Part A.2 of the Project,
to the Fund on the Borrower's account, provided that such amounts
are not required by the Borrower to fulfill its obligations
specificed, inter alia, in Sections 2.05, 2.06 and 2.07 of the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LNDC
Section 3.01. LNDC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
development banking practices under the supervision of qualified


﻿-4-
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. LNDC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) LNDC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   LNDC shall:
(i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably re-
quest.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of LNDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify LNDC
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by


﻿-6-
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For LNDC:
Lesotho National Development Corporation
P.O. Box 666
Maseru 100
Lesotho
Cable address:               Telex:
DEVCOR                    4341 LO
Maseru
Fax:
310038
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of LNDC, may be taken or executed by the
Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Managing
Director shall designate in writing, and LNDC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /            V   k
Regional Vice President
Africa
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By                          Rr     nt
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


