Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB4215 
 
Project Name 
Second Program 135 Phase 2 Support 
Region 
East Asia and Pacific Region 
Sector 
 
Project ID 
P107062 
Borrower(s) 
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
Implementing Agencies 
Committee for Ethnic Minorities (CEM), Ministry of Planning and 
Investment (MPI), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD), Selected Provincial 
People’s Committees (PPCs). 
Date PID Prepared 
September 23, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 11, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 24, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Government has made progress in all four policy areas and against all 13 triggers identified to strengthen 
the implementation of The Program for Communes Facing Extreme Hardship in Ethnic Minority and 
Mountainous Areas (Program 135 Phase 2).  Revised procedures and guidelines, reflected in the revised 
Inter-Circular 676 have been issued and implementation is proceeding, albeit at different speed and with 
different levels of effectiveness in different provinces, generally with those commune with prior 
experience with donor or NGO projects utilizing similar, decentralized and more transparent procedures 
being more likely to adopt the new approaches.  As a result, the upcoming mid-term review for P135-2, 
planned for November 2008, will provide the opportunity to review progress and identify the 
impediments to broader implementation.  It will also be an important opportunity for directly engage 
with communities to determine how well these policy reforms are addressing their needs in ensuring a 
more culturally sensitive and inclusive approach to poverty reduction.  Significant delays to date have 
mainly been encountered in the development of new guidelines for production support, and in the wider 
use of competitive procurement procedures.  In some provinces, there has also been reluctance to 
devolve ownership of investments to communes due to concerns regarding capacity.  Accordingly, the 
technical assistance and capacity building support from Finland, Australia, IFAD and UNDP, which 
have just begun in the last six months, will be critical to effectively implement further measures 
identified at mid-term review. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The Program Development Objective is to improve the results of one of Vietnam’s National Target 
Programs for poverty reduction, the “Program for Socio-Economic Development in Communes Facing 
Extreme Hardship in Ethnic Minority and Mountainous Areas (2006-2010)”, known as “Program 135, 
through strengthening the four, main policy areas: (i) poverty targeting; (ii) decentralization, 
participation and empowerment; (iii) fiduciary transparency and accountability; and (iv) monitoring and 
evaluation. 
 
The proposed operation is fully aligned with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy 2007 to 2011 
which is based on GoV’s Socio-Economic Development Plan (2006-2010).  The proposed operation 
specifically supports the “Strengthen Social Inclusion” pillar and particularly the outcomes of “better 
Page  2
access to services and infrastructure for the rural poor”, and “ethnic minorities in rural areas more fully 
integrated into development processes” 
 
Proposed prior actions, agreed under the first support operation, include: 
 
·
Review and revision of funding allocation formula based on mid-term review 
·
Review and increase (if needed) allocations for O&M based on mid-term review 
·
Agreement on actions to broaden and strengthen production support activities based on mid-term 
review 
·
At least 60% of communes granted ownership over investments 
·
At least 60% of communes managing planning and investment management process 
·
At least 50% of contracts awarded through competitive bidding process 
·
Completion of audit in at least 10 provinces with public dissemination of results 
·
At least 75% of large investments involve paid, local labor 
·
Mid-term review includes preliminary impact assessments using baseline 
·
Citizen report cards and regional learning included in mid-term review assessments 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The second operation supports confirmation of the implementation of actions already shown to deliver 
results, including 
strengthening community-level ownership over the planning, execution, management 
and construction supervision, and operation and maintenance of basic infrastructure investments
 
through the mid-term review.  The second operation will utilize the mid term review process to verify 
progress and agree on opportunities to improve implementation consistent with achieving the results in 
each policy area.
 
The series of operations supports the Government of Vietnam to pursue its objectives for the reform of 
its NTPs for poverty reduction.  All NTPs will benefit from the updated procedures developed under 
donor and NGO financed area projects, as well as capacities developed under P135-2.  More 
specifically, the expected results of the proposed series of operations over the medium to long term (next 
ten years) include: (a) public investment resources better targeted and more effectively delivered to 
contribute to increasing the level, security and sustainability of livelihoods of ethnic minority 
households living in remaining deep pockets of poverty in remote, upland areas of Vietnam; (b) higher 
quality and more cost-effective support services and basic infrastructure used by poor, ethnic minority 
households in remote locations to access markets, wage-earning opportunities, education and health 
services, and sources of public information; (c) greater responsiveness of local authorities to citizens’ 
and communities’ demands for more effective service provision; and (d) a reduction in corruption risks 
in NTP and other government programs through enhanced public participation and oversight of public 
financial management and procurement. 
 
4.    Environment Aspects 
An examination of the environmental implications of P135-2 was undertaken by the Borrower with 
consultant support during the preparation of the first program support operation, building on an earlier, 
generally positive, assessment of the environmental impacts of Program 135 Phase 1 conducted in 2005 
with support from UK DFID. The environmental examination of P135-2 also used the findings of 
environmental safeguards compliance monitoring conducted under the IDA-supported Northern 
Mountains Poverty Reduction and Community Based Rural Infrastructure Projects. Experience under 
these ongoing investment operations, which finance very similar investments to those under the 
infrastructure component of P135-2, suggests that adverse environmental impacts are very small, 
whether considered individually or in the aggregate, while positive environmental impacts are 
Page  3
significant. Adverse impacts, when they are a concern, can generally be mitigated or prevented entirely 
by relatively simple measures during sub-project planning and construction and incorporation of 
appropriate clauses in construction contracts.  
The MTR reports and field visits will be used to verify 
the level of understanding of these mitigation measures and identify any implementation issues at 
the local level. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: IDA 
($m.)50 
 Total 
50 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Steven N. Schonberger 
Title: Leads Operations Officer 
Tel: (202) 473-7149 
Fax: (202) 477-2733 
Email: 
Sschonberger@worldbank.org
