Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4580-VN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Program 135 Phase II Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 9, 2009 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 9, 2009, entered into between SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
sixty-six 
million 
nine 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights                    
(SDR 66,900,000) (
variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Governor, or any Deputy Governor, of 
State Bank of Vietnam. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Lý Thái T
Page  4
3
Hà N
i
,
Vietnam 
 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
 
 
412248  
(84-4) 3 825 0612 
 
Hanoi 
   NHTWVT 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 (1-202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Hà N
i
,
Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By: /s/ Nguyen Van Giau 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ 
Victoria Kwakwa 
Page  5
4
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
A. Poverty 
Targeting 
 
1. 
The Recipient, through MOF, has allocated 6.3% of its FY 2008 budget 
earmarked for the infrastructure activities under the Program 135 Phase 
II, for operation and maintenance of the infrastructure facilities built 
under the Program 135 Phase II. 
 
2. 
The Recipient, through State Treasury in MOF, has issued Guidelines 
319/KBNN-KHTH, dated March 4, 2009, for the management and 
disbursement of funds under Program 135 Phase II, including the funds 
allocated for the operation and maintenance expenditures referred to in 
paragraph A.1 above.  
 
3. 
To support the implementation of agriculture production aspects of Inter-
ministerial Circular 01, the Recipient, through MARD, has issued 
Circular 12/2009/TT-BNN, dated March 6, 2009, which includes , 
inter 
alia
,
transparent criteria for selecting beneficiaries and activities to be 
supported by the Program 135 Phase II, and guidance on beneficiary cost 
sharing. 
 
B. Decentralization, 
Participation 
and 
Empowerment 
 
4. 
The Recipient, through CEM, MPI, MOF, MOC and MARD, has issued 
Inter-ministerial Circular 01 in 2008, which includes, inter alia: (i) the 
criteria for communes to be granted investment ownerships for projects 
managed by single communes; and (ii) the requirement that districts 
second their staff to provide support to communes not yet meeting the 
criteria for being investment owners. 
 
C. Fiduciary 
Transparency 
and
 
Accountability
 
5. 
The Recipient, through CEM, has issued a manual providing guidance on 
implementing procurement aspects of Inter-ministerial Circular 01, 
including procurement planning requirements and measures to ensure 
transparent procurement process. 
 
Page  7
6
6. 
(a) The Recipient, through SAV, conducted an annual audit in 2008 
covering at least ten (10) Participating Provinces; and (b) eight (8) 
Participating Provinces audited by SAV in 2007 have submitted to SAV 
reports on their implementation of recommendations made in the 2007 
annual audit, said reports covering, inter alia, the status of funds required 
by the State Budget Law to be reimbursed by relevant provinces to the 
State Budget. 
 
D. 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
7. 
The Recipient, through CEM, has conducted a mid-term review of the 
Program 135 Phase II based on a baseline survey and participatory 
stakeholders’ assessment of progress made under the Program 135 Phase 
II.  
 
8. 
The Recipient, through CEM, has carried out a citizen report-card 
survey, and conducted regional lessons and experience sharing to inform 
the mid-term review for the Program 135 Phase II.  
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
66,900,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
66,900,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter 
maintain a deposit account in Dollars (“Foreign Currency Deposit 
Account”) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into said Foreign Currency Deposit Account.  Upon each 
deposit of an amount of the Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit 
Page  8
7
Account, the Recipient shall deposit an equivalent amount in local 
currency into an account of the Recipient within its budget management 
system to finance budgeted expenditures.   
 
D. Audit. 
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and 
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Foreign 
Currency Deposit Account and its audit as the Association shall 
reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
commencing November 15, 2019 to and including 
May 15, 2029 
1% 
commencing November 15, 2029 to and including 
May 15, 2049 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“CEM” means the Recipient’s Committee for Ethnic Minorities, the Recipient’s 
central agency charged with managing and supervising the implementation of 
Program 135 Phase II with the support from and in coordination with the 
Ministries of Planning and Investment, of Finance, of Agriculture and Rural 
Development and of Construction; and any successor thereto.
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or sub-groups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
 
un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges),                 
non-irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco processing 
Page  11
10 
 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
3. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in paragraph 
C.1, Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year starting from January 1 and ending on 
December 31. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
6. 
“Inter-ministerial Circular 01” means the Circular 01/2008/TTLT-UBDT-
KH
T
-
TC-XD-NNPTNT of September 15, 2008, issued jointly by CEM, MPI, MOF,
 
MOC and MARD, and referred to in paragraph B.4, Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Page  12
11 
 
7. 
“MARD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“MOC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Construction, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
9. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“MPI” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Planning and Investment, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Participating Provinces” means the provinces selected by the Recipient to 
participate in the Program 135 Phase II. 
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty, and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated March 6, 2009 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
13. 
“Program 135 Phase II” and “P 135-2” mean the Recipient’s Program for Socio-
economic Development in Communes Facing Extreme Hardship in Ethnic 
Minority and Mountainous Areas (2006-2010), as approved by the Recipient’s 
Prime Minister under Decision No. 7/2006/Q
-TTg of January 10, 2006. 
 
14. 
“SAV” means the State Audit of Vietnam, and any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table in Part B, Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
Page  13
12 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
Page  14
13 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
