Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No. AB4539 
Project Name 
Second Program 135 Phase 2 Support 
Region 
East Asia and Pacific Region 
Sector 
Rural Development, Natural Resources and Environment  
Project ID 
P107062 
Borrower(s) 
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
Implementing Agency 
Committee for Ethnic Minorities (CEM), Ministry of Planning and 
Investment (MPI), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD), Selected Provincial 
People’s Committees (PPCs). 
Date PID Prepared 
January 26, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
 
February 4, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
April 23, 2009 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Vietnam has been one of the best performing economies in the world over the last decade.  Real GDP 
has grown by 7.3 percent over the last 10 years with per capita income rising by 6.2 percent. At the 
same time, broad-based growth has been ac
companied by a continuation of Vietnam’s remarkable 
record in poverty reduction, with percentage of the population living in poverty has fallen from 58.1 
percent in 1993 to 19.5 percent in 2004, implying an average decline of 3.5 percentage points per year. 
These impressive achievements sit alongside much slower progress for ethnic minorities. 
In 2004, only 
14 percent of the majority group was living in poverty, compared to 61 percent of the ethnic minorities.  
Though the latter account for only 13 percent of the total population, they now constitute 39 percent of the 
poor.
 Aggregate figures also mask widening disparities in the extent and depth of poverty between 
regions.  
 
Redressing the persistent gaps in the extent and depth of poverty among different regions and ethnic 
groups has become a major objective of GoV policy. As an integral part of the SEDP, Government is 
revamping the National Targeted Programs (NTPs) for poverty reduction, in order to help address the 
distinct challenges facing communities living in the poorest and most remote areas of the country. 
More specifically, and of most direct relevance to the proposed operation, Phase 2 of the Program for 
Socio-Economic Development in Communes Facing Extreme Hardship in Ethnic Minority and 
Mountainous Areas (more commonly known as Program 135) has been redesigned on the basis of 
lessons from recent evaluations of Phase 1, implemented over 1998-2005; lessons from parallel, donor-
supported initiatives; and an exceptionally thorough process of consultation throughout 2006 involving 
key ministries and central agencies in at least ten major workshops, each of the 43 participating 
provinces in at least three consultation workshops organized on a regional basis, and extensive field 
studies conducted in a number of provinces.  
 
2.  Operation Objectives  
 
The Program Development Objective is to improve the results of one of Vietnam’s National Target 
Programs for poverty reduction, the “Program for Socio-Economic Development in Communes 
Page  2
Facing Extreme Hardship in Ethnic Minority and Mountainous Areas (2006-
2010)”, known as 
“Program 135, through strengthening the four, main policy areas: (i) poverty targeting; (ii) 
decentralization, participation and empowerment; (iii) fiduciary transparency and accountability; 
and (iv) monitoring and evaluation. 
 
The proposed operation is fully aligned with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy 2007 to 
2011 which is based on GoV’s Socio-Economic Development Plan (2006-2010).  The proposed 
operation specifically supports the “Strengthen Social Inclusion” pillar and particularly the 
outcomes of “better access to services and infrastructure for the rural poor”, and “ethnic minorities 
in rural areas more fully integrated into development processes” 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Vietnam’s strong record in poverty reduction has been less effective in ethnic minority and 
mountainous areas than in urban areas and amongst the majority Kinh and Chinese populations.  
Poverty rates amongst ethnic minorities remain over 50% compared to 16 percent for Vietnam as a 
whole.  Similarly, the depth of poverty, as measured by the poverty gap, is greater – 15.4% for 
ethnic minority poor as compared to 3.8% for all poor.  Government has prioritized poverty 
reduction overall and targeted support for poor, ethnic minority communities in its Socio-
Economic Development Plan.  The primary instrument for providing support is through its 
National Targeted Programs, and particularly through Program 135, Phase 2 which draws on 
experience during the programs first phase (2000 to 2005) as well as experience under various 
donor-supported area projects to provide community-based infrastructure, livelihood and 
production support to communes and villages with poverty rates above 50%.  The program is also 
supports processes which strengthen grassroots democracy through participatory planning and 
implementation and enhanced local ownership of investments. 
4. Financing 
 
1. 
The proposed operation would be the second in a programmatic series of three 
Development Policy Credits (DPCs) over the life of P135-2 (2006-2010) to support the sustained 
implementation of the reform elements of this Government program in support of achievement 
of the agreed program outcomes: 
·
DPC1 (US $50 million equivalent) supported those critical aspects of the reform agenda which 
provided the framework for a program consistent with the agreed outcomes. The prior actions 
in this case were primarily policy and institutional actions already shown to deliver results 
through strengthening community-level ownership over the planning, execution, management 
and construction supervision, and operation and maintenance of basic infrastructure 
investments; 
·
DPC2 (US $50 million equivalent) would support additional actions which have been identified 
during the first two years of implementation and the recent mid-term review to reinforce the 
reform agenda.  The prior actions would include revised policy and supporting documents in 
key areas such as production support and competitiveness of local procurement to permit more 
effective implementation by provinces, districts and communes, as well as strengthening of the 
monitoring and oversight functions at the central level; 
·
DPC3 (US $50 million equivalent) would support updating of policy actions based on 
implementation experience, as well as the application of lessons learned under the program to 
the design of the follow on NTPs in those areas where the reforms have proven to support more 
effective progress towards the program objectives and outcomes. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Page  3
The Committee for Ethnic Minorities (CEM) is assigned by the Government of Vietnam as the lead 
agency in managing and supervising the implementation of P135-2, with support from and in 
coordination with the four other ministries: Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI), Ministry of 
Finance (MOF), Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD), and Ministry of 
Construction (MOC). These ministries have representatives on the Program Steering Committee, which 
is chaired by a Deputy Prime Minister. State Audit of Vietnam (SAV, which reports to the National 
Assembly), and the Vietnam Fatherland Front among other mass organizations, play the role of 
independent supervision bodies. At provincial level, a Steering Committee for the implementation of 
the P135-2 is set up with participation from all related agencies and the standing agency is the 
Provincial Committee for Ethnic Minorities, chaired by the Chairperson of the Provincial People’s 
Committee (PPC). The PPC creates an enabling environment for the effective implementation of the 
P135-2 by developing and issuance of provincial guidance regulations and implementation of capacity 
building. The same institutional setting is for the district level. The District People Committee provides 
guidance and supervision for planning and implementation at commune level. The Commune People 
Committee is the investment owner and makes decisions on implementation and supervision. At 
commune level there is a ‘program management unit’ established by District People’s Committee. 
 
At provincial level, the PPC takes overall responsibility for quality, progress, and effectiveness of 
P135-2.  Every quarter the PPC takes the lead in supervising, monitoring and evaluating program 
implementation. The P-135 Provincial Standing Office serves as the key agency to conduct monitoring 
and supervision, and assists the PPC in synthesizing and reporting results to the Central Standing 
Agency (CEM). A baseline study to permit meaningful impact has been conducted in a representative 
‘treatment’ sample of P135-2 target communes and also in a ‘control’ sample.  
 
Provincial Steering Committees synthesize reports from local levels and submit regular progress 
reports to higher level authority. Provinces send their reports to CEM on a quarterly and annual basis. 
CEM submits aggregated reports to the National Steering Committee every six months. 
 
A
Partnership Committee (PC) has been formally established by the Government to oversee and review 
of progress towards the agreed policy and institutional actions under the proposed series of operations. 
The PC is chaired by CEM, and made up of senior managers and specialists from all the relevant 
Government agencies having a role in P135-2 execution (including MOF, MPI, MARD, Office of 
Government, GSO, and MOLISA). All co-financing donor agencies, including IDA, are also being 
represented. The PC is co-chaired by a lead donor on a rotational basis with the World Bank leading in 
alternate years.  
 
Annual review missions and interim review missions are organized according to the following 
schedule, dictated by the Government’s budget cycle: interim review missions are held around April of 
each year, and full annual reviews conducted around September-October each year. Review missions 
involve field visits and form the basis for preparation of the next operation and involve an assessment 
of progress towards accomplishing the agreed policy and institutional actions/ triggers. 
 
A
mid-term review was held in November 2009, led by CEM, and based on the results of the baseline 
survey, citizen report cards, and independent assessments from State Audit of Vietnam, the National 
Assembly Committee on Ethnic Minorities and the most recent, annual review mission of the PC.  The 
mid term review included assessment of the progress in achieving prior actions for the proposed 
operation as well as overall progress towards policy outcomes and provided the basis for the revised 
policy matrix agreed by the PC.  
 
6.   Benefits and Risks 
 
Page  4
Benefits.
Consistent with the Vietnam CAS/CPS, and as a complement to ongoing PRSCs and 
investment operations, the proposed operation would help the GoV to narrow a persistent poverty gap 
between the targeted areas/population groups and the rest of the country, in a context of otherwise 
outstanding economic growth and poverty reduction performance. It would provide a vehicle for IDA 
and the donor community more broadly to jointly engage the Borrower in a programmatic reform 
agenda on a strategically important NTP for poverty reduction, with particular respect to:  
·
Poverty targeting of NTP resource allocation; 
·
Deepening and scaling-up community-driven approaches to planning, managing, operating and 
maintaining basic infrastructure investments; 
·
Fiduciary transparency and accountability in program implementation; and 
·
Process monitoring and impact evaluation. 
 
Risks. 
Possible risks to success of the proposed operation are: 
 
Institutional risks
:
.
·
Decentralization of investment ownership to communes for local infrastructure does not 
progress to the extent envisaged, either because district officials are unwilling to delegate 
authority and resources, or because communes lack the necessary capacity and no clear 
institutional responsibility or budgetary resources are assigned to help them acquire it 
–
medium to high risk
.
Government has stated the goal of 100% commune investment ownership 
by the end of P135-2 and emphasized this to provinces and districts. Based on constraints 
identified at mid-term review, accelerated capacity support will be provided to communes and 
districts with low rates of commune ownership, with support from donor-funded technical 
assistance. 
 
·
In context of significant and continuing decentralization in Vietnam, policy and institutional 
actions agreed at the center translate insufficiently into intended provincial and local-level 
outcomes – 
medium to high risk.  
Based on mid-term review, Government has issued several 
reinforcing and clarifying guidelines for production support, procurement and financial 
management which will be supported by accelerated capacity building as well as use of the 
recently introduced management information system with appropriate indicators.  Joint 
Government – donor supervision is providing Government with additional options based on 
international experience with implementing reforms in a decentralized administrative system. 
 
Fiduciary risks
:
·
There have been a number of PFM shortcomings which highlighted ways in which relevant 
PFM systems needed to be strengthened in the context of P135-2 and related NTPs. Risk 
assessment – 
medium risk
.
Government has prepared quarterly financial statements on flow 
and use of resources under P135-2 which have been posted on the Ministry of Finance website.  
In addition, the State Audit of Vietnam has carried out annul audits of a sample of provinces, 
identifying both control weaknesses as well as instances of misuse of funds which are being 
reimbursed by provinces to the State Treasury.  The Bank’s financial management staff have 
provided careful review of both the financial statements and audit reports and based on the 
mid-term review discussions, it was agreed that Government will provide updates to Review 
missions on the status of implementation of the prior year’s audit recommendations by the 
provinces. 
 
·
Corruption is a significant and growing problem in Vietnam, and in a rapidly-growing 
economy corruption vulnerabilities and opportunities for graft could outpace measures to 
Page  5
combat them for some time. P135-2 and other programs specifically targeted to the poor are 
often viewed as intrinsically more vulnerable to corruption because of their highly 
decentralized forms of implementation involving generally weak local-authority institutional 
capacity. Overall risk assessment 
–
medium to high risk
.
Government enacted its Corruption 
Law in 2006, and in the context of P135-2, specific measures to increase transparency and 
social accountability are required, including participatory planning, increased use of 
competitive contracting, public display of key procurement steps, citizen report cards and 
independent assessments by the National Assembly, donors as part of the PC and the annual 
audits. 
 
Policy-related risks
:
·
Techniques for raising agricultural productivity more suited to Vietnam’s irrigated lowlands 
continue to be introduced to rain-fed, upland farming systems, where they could prove 
economically, socially or environmentally unsustainable – 
medium to high risk
 Program 
documentation has been updated to emphasize a more demand-driven and heterogeneous 
approach to extension based on local agronomic and market conditions as well as household 
food security status.  This is being encouraged and supported by donors based on experience 
under smaller, area development projects in Vietnam.  IDA is also initiating focused analytical 
work on the issue of uplands food security.; 
·
Resettlement and compulsory asset acquisition under P135-2 are not well-handled – 
low risk 
–
anticipated impacts are expected to be minimal, however this is nonetheless monitored as part 
of the joint review process. 
·
The proposed operation is associated with other government activities aimed at reducing 
ethnic minority poverty: 
·
Despite the formal exclusion of sedentarization activities from P135-2, a perceived link may 
remain. This may indirectly associate IDA and the donor community with any adverse social 
and livelihood-related impacts of sedentarization 
–
low to medium risk 
IDA work with forestry 
and broader donor work on upland agricultural systems are providing input to this discussion 
within Government. 
·
Some activities under P135-2 may be associated with other activities of Government designed 
to promote public security. This might: (a) limit the effectiveness of development activities; 
and/or (b) associate donors with activities that tighten social control in some communities – 
low risk 
The reforms supported by IDA and other donor engagement focus on building stronger 
transparency and local participation in the development process in upland areas.  Participatory 
elements are closely monitored through both field and independent assessments.   
 
While the proposed operation includes several significant risks rated medium to high, the inputs to 
the recent mid-term review indicated that general progress regarding the policy outcomes is quite 
positive, and the program, after initial administrative delays, is serving as an effective means of 
channeling investment support to the poorest communities.  The primary challenge identified is to 
address the inconsistencies amongst provinces through more effective capacity building and 
technical support focused at the subnational level. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
P135-2 is expected to have a significantly positive impact on poverty reduction, however the 
program’s poverty reduction objectives are unlikely to be achieved within the five year program 
period.
 
Reducing poverty from 43% to 30% would require an annual rate of poverty reduction 
twice the 2% national average and as high as 7 to 8% amongst ethnic minorities.  As P135-2 
interventions are focused on building physical and human capital which will only gradually 
Page  6
facilitate greater labor migration and market integration, measured poverty rates are expected to 
decline more slowly in the mostly isolated target communities.  As a result of the MTR, 
Government intends to accelerate implementation of activities which facilitate access to basic 
services and the strengthening of social capital, thereby encouraging greater confidence to engage 
administrative processes and to link to labor and market opportunities outside their existing 
communities.
 
An examination of the environmental implications of P135-2 was undertaken by the Borrower with 
consultant support during the preparation of the first program support operation, building on an 
earlier, generally positive, assessment of the environmental impacts of Program 135 Phase 1 
conducted in 2005 with support from UK DFID. The environmental examination of P135-2 also 
used the findings of environmental safeguards compliance monitoring conducted under the IDA-
supported Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction and Community Based Rural Infrastructure 
Projects. Experience under these ongoing investment operations, which finance very similar 
investments to those under the infrastructure component of P135-2, suggests that adverse 
environmental impacts are very small, whether considered individually or in the aggregate, while 
positive environmental impacts are significant.
 
As a result of field observations during the mid-
term review, it was discussed and agreed that increased environmental awareness raising is 
required at the community level and with contractors in the context of subprojects.  These 
activities will be supported, in part by the increased, decentralized TA.  In addition, and the new 
production component guidelines will promote use of IPM and other environmentally friendly 
production practices as an alternative to heavy use of chemical inputs.  
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Steven N. Schonberger 
Title: Leads Operations Officer 
Tel: (202) 473-7149 
Fax: (202) 477-2733 
Email: 
Sschonberger@worldbank.org
