Report No. PID7980
Project Name                     Tanzania-Second Financial Institutions Development
Project
Project ID                       TZPE57187
Borrower                         Government Of Tanzania
Implementing Agency              Bank Of Tanzania,
Directorate Of Bank Supervision
P.O. Box 2939 Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania
Attn: Mr. L.H. Mkila
Tel: 255 51 118021;
Fax: 255 51 113941
Date Of This PID                 March 10, 1999
Appraisal Date                   March 29, 1999
Projected Board Date             April/May 1999
Country and Sector Background. Tanzania is among the poorest countries in the
world with a per capita income of about US$ 140. The basic objective of the
Government of Tanzania is to reduce poverty by increasing the annual growth
rate to at least 6 percent by the year 2000 and to even higher levels
thereafter, and by extending access to basic social and economic services.
To achieve this, the Government has a strategy which articulates several
necessary conditions. These include the continued growth of agricultural
production by at least 5 percent per annum, the development of non-farm
activities (e.g. tourism and mining) in the rural areas, and the acceleration
of industrial growth from 3-4 percent to 6-7 percent per annum. A doubling
of the growth rate of the services sector - including banking - will be
required to support the targeted rates of growth in the productive sectors.
This will be feasible with increased private investment in the financial
sector and the successful implementation of banking reforms to promote
financial deepening.
Following the liberalization of entry into the financial sector that was
initiated in 1991, the Tanzania financial sector currently consists of 20
commercial banks (of which only 17 are operating) and 9 NBFIs. There are 232
branches/outlets and over 3,000 people employed in these institutions. In
terms of bank penetration and service delivery, this translates to an average
of about 129,300 people being served per bank branch. As a consequence of the
restructuring of most state-owned banks and the entry of new private banks,
banking is substantially more competitive than it was five years ago,
especially in Dar es Salaam. The benefits of competition are also slowly
spreading to areas outside Dar es Salaam as the larger private banks have
begun opening branches in the major towns in these areas.
The six largest banks together have 85 percent of the deposit market while
the largest bank is about three times the size of the second largest in terms
of assets. The largest bank, NBC (1997) has a 56 percent market share for
both loans and deposits. This represents a significant improvement in the
structure of the banking sector. However, the overall growth of deposit
mobilization and credit intermediation remains unsatisfactory. Deposit
growth at 12 percent between June 1995 and December 1997 was negative in real
terms while credit declined by 10% in nominal terms.
Project Objectives. The objective of FIDP II is to create a competitive
financial sector that, using commercial principles, will channel domestic



savings into increased private investment. This will be accomplished by: (i)
facilitating the privatization of state owned banks, (ii) strengthening the
supporting financial infrastructure including bank supervision by the central
bank, an improved payments system, and the establishment of a private credit
information bureau, and (iii) implementing a strategy for the development of
capital markets. The project (FIDP II) will help completion of the program of
technical assistance begun under the first Financial Institutions Development
Project (FIDP). FIDP was approved in 1995 to support the Government's
financial sector development strategy. However, most of the resources under
FIDP were re-allocated to the critical component for the privatization of
National Bank of Commerce (NBC) and there remains a long agenda to be
completed on the other components.
Project Description. The Project will have the following main components:
1. Privatization of Banks. The credit will finance a management contract,
systems improvement and implementation of a training program for the National
Microfinance Bank (NMB). It will also finance the process of selecting a
strategic investor for NMB.
2. Strengthening of Bank Supervision. To complement the IMF support that is
already being provided, the credit will provide financing for a comprehensive
program of training in a number of key areas where weaknesses have been
identified. These areas include Problem Institutions Management, Managing
Financial Institutions, Trade Finance, Credit Risk Management, Internal
Control Environment, Treasury Risk Management, Computer Skills, Exposure to
other regulatory functions in other countries, and development of an
examination manual. By continuing to upgrade the skills of existing staff
and developing the skills of new staff, the intention of the project is to
create a properly trained cadre of Banking Supervisors which can effectively
supervise the Tanzanian financial sector.
3. Improving the Payments System. The effective functioning of a financial
system depends on the efficiency with which financial transactions are
carried out. An inefficient payments system hinders economic growth and is a
binding constraint to domestic and foreign trade.
The first phase of the National Payments System Modernization Project
(Situation Stocktaking) was completed under FIDP. The credit (FIDP II) will
finance the continuation of the Vision and Conceptual Design, and the
Technical Specifications phases. The second phase requires detailed knowledge
of best international practice in a variety of specialist topics.
Accordingly, BOT will use an experienced consulting firm to guide and support
the subsequent detailed work.
4. Credit Reference Bureau. There is no formal mechanism in Tanzania for the
sharing of credit information. Prior to the financial sector reform program,
when the market was dominated by Government-owned banks and when there were
few private borrowers, there was no demand nor need for sharing of credit
information. A feasibility study for a Credit Reference Bureau (CRB) was
financed under FIDP. This indicated that there was significant demand for a
CRB and that the potential customers of such a service strongly favored a
cooperative-type arrangement whereby the primary users of the credit
information would also be the primary owners of the bureau. FIDP II will
finance an initial subsidy to launch the Credit Reference Bureau in
conjunction with private sector shareholders with the intention that it would
-2 -



reach financial sustainability within two years from the start of operations.
5. Capital Markets Development. Under FIDP, the CMSA successfully established
the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) to the point where two Initial Public
Offerings (IPOs) took place during the first half of 1998. DSE now has a
small pipeline of further IPOs which, based on listing fees, will allow it to
become financially viable within the next two years. Under FIDP II, the
project will continue to support CMSA by financing a package covering
incremental operating costs, short-term technical assistance, training,
research activities and an ongoing program of public education. CMSA is
expected to reach financial sustainability within the first two years of the
project as it realizes fee income from IPOs and listings on the DSE.
6. Contractual Savings-Insurance Supervision. As a first step towards the
regulation of the insurance industry, the Government has established a
supervisory authority (an Insurance Commission). With support from FIDP II,
the Commission will develop a supervisory methodology and policy framework
which will include the drafting of regulatory guidelines and the supporting
accounting principals and standards to be adopted by the industry to meet the
legislative requirements. In addition, and concurrent with this activity,
the Government intends to address the dearth of actuarial expertise in
Tanzania which is required to support the development of the sector.
The credit will also finance a study to help formulate a policy framework for
pension regulation, including the feasibility of creating a single
institution to oversee pension and insurance regulation.
7. Privatization Trust Fund. This component would also provide funding for
the establishment, on a pilot basis, and management of the first three years
of the Privatization Trust Fund (PTF). The Government intends to establish
the PTF mainly to broaden local participation in privatization while
maximizing the financial benefits of the sale of privatized assets. The day
to day operations of the PTF will be carried out by a private management
company with access to merchant banking expertise.
8. Studies Fund. This component would finance studies on the options
available to the Government for the restructuring and/or privatization of the
other remaining public sector banks, namely People's Bank of Zanzibar,
Tanzania Investment Bank and Tanzania Postal Bank.
Project Financing. Initial estimates show that the project costs will be
around US$ 29 million of which US$ 26.1 million would be contributed by IDA
and the Government would provide the remaining costs.
Poverty category. NMB, which has started off as a savings bank, is expected
to eventually make short term micro-loans to groups and individuals without
collateral. This will lead to increased incomes and employment opportunities
for the poor especially in the rural areas.
Environmental Aspects: The project is classified as Category C. This is a
technical assistance project for the financial sector which will not have any
direct or indirect environmental impact.
Program Objective Categories - Implementation Arrangements: The Directorate
of Bank Supervision in Bank of Tanzania will coordinate the implementation
arrangements. The Directorate will keep in constant consultation with all
the beneficiary agencies who will supply it with periodic project progress
reports. It will also act as the focal point of contact between the
Government of Tanzania and IDA during the project implementation period.
Contact Point:
-3-



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 23, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



