Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19611 - TA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.6 MILLION
(US$27.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO TWE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SECOND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 4, 1999
Private Sector and Finance Unit
Country Department AFC04
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tanzanian Shilling (Tsh.)
US$1 = Tsh. 700 (May 1999)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOT          Bank of Tanzania
BSD          Bank Supervision Directorate
CGAP         Consultative Group for Assistance to the Poor
CMSA         Capital Markets and Securities Authority
CRDB         Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
DANIDA       Danish International Development Agency
DSE          Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange
FIDP         Financial Institutions Development Project
FMD          Finarcial Markets Directorate
FSAC         Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GOT          Government of Tanzania
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
LART         Loans and Advances Realization Trust
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
NBC          National Bank of Commerce
NBFI         Non-Bank Financial Institution
NIC          National Insurance Corporation
NMB          National Microfinance Bank
NPF          National Provident Fund
OTC          Over-the-Counter
PBZ          People's Bank of Zanzibar
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMR          Project Management Report
PPRP         Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project
PSRC         Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PT           Privatization Trust
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SACCO        Savings and Credit Cooperatives Organization
TA           Technical Assistance
ZIC          Zanzibar Insurance Corporation
Vice President      Callisto Madavo
Country Director    James W. Adams
Sector Manager      Gerard Byam
Team Leader         Antony Thompson



1
TANZANIA
SECOND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                         4
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators     4
B. Strategic Context                                                     4
1. Sectoral-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)               4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                       4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  7
C. Project Description Summany                                           10
1. Project Components                                              10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project    10
3. Benefits and target population                                   10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                    11
D. Project Rationale                                                    12
1. Project alternaties considered and reasons for rejection        12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies                                          13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design             13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                13
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this project                     13
E. Project Analysis                                                     15
1. Economic and financial Assessment                               15
2. Technical Assessment                                            18
3. Institutional                                                   19
4. Social                                                          19
5. Environmental Assess                                            19
6. Participatory Approach                                          19
F. Sustainability and Risks                                             20
1. Sustainability                                                  20
2. Critical Risks                                                  21
3. Possible Controversial Aspects                                  22
G. Main Loan Conditions                                                 22
2. Effectiveness Conditions                                        22
3. Other Conditions                                                22



2
H. Readiness for Implementation                                        23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                       24
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                        24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                  30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                       39
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary                           40
Annex 5: Financial Summary and Financial projections                   42
Annex SA: Consolidated Financial projections for NMB                   45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                     52
Annex 7: Project Processing and Budget Schedule                        62
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                     63
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                64
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                          66
MAP



TANZANIA
SECOND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Private Sector and Finance
Date: August 4, 1999                    Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Antony Thompson
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams Sector Director: Alan G. Gelb
Project ID: 57187      Sector: Financial  Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: SIL                  Program of Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ]No
Project Financing Data                L  Loan   0x Credit   LI Guarantee    [ Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$27.5 million/SDR 20.6 million on Standard IDA terms
Proposed Terms:         E] To be        El Multicurrency    L   Single currency
defined
Grace period [years]:  10 years     []  Standard        [1  Fixed       []   LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: Standard IDA
Service charge: Standard IDA
Financing plan: US$27.5million
Source                                   Local        Foreign       Total
Government:                                                        4.4                        4.4
Cofinanciers                                                                     0.2          0.2
IBRD/IDA :                                                         2.1          25.4        27.5
Borrower: United Republic of Tanzania
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agencies: Bank of Tanzania (BOT), Ministry of Finance (MOF) , National Microfinance Bank,
Insurance Supervisory Department, Capital Markets and Securities Authority
Estimated Disbursement Bank FY/US$ millions     FY00  FY01  FY02  FY03  Total
Annual                    8.26   8.92    7.26    3.01  27.45
Cumulative                   8.26  17.18   24.44   27.45
Project Implementation Period: 4 years
Expected Effectiveness Date: October 15, 1999       Expected Closing Date: December 31, 2003



Page 4
A: Project Development Objective
1.    Project development objective and key performance indicators
(see Annex 1 for performance indicators)
The objective of the project is to improve access by small savers and micro entrepreneurs to a sound and
competitive financial system. This will be accomplished by: (i) restructuring and/or privatizing state
owned banks including transforming the NMB into a private microfinance bank; (ii) strengthening the
supporting financial infrastructure by, inter-alia, enhancing the capacity of the central bank to supervise
banks and by improving the efficiency of the national payments system; and (iii) increasing savings and
investment opportunities by promoting the development of contractual savings and capital markets.
Project benefits would be measured through an assessment of:
*  Increased access by rural savers and micro entrepreneurs to the formal financial system.
*  Reduced Government ownership of (as a proxy for intervention in) the banking sector.
•  The soundness of the banking system as measured by the extent of non-perforning assets in the
banking system and enhanced quality of bank supervision and the regulatory environment.
B: Strategic Context
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
CAS document number:          16554-TA
Date of latest CAS discussion:    June 20, 1997
The primary objective of IDA's assistance strategy to Tanzania is to reduce poverty through an
acceleration of broad-based private sector growth. The strategy articulates several necessary conditions
including the continued growth of agricultural production by at least 5 percent per annum, the
development of non-farm activities (e.g. tourism and mining) in the rural areas, and doubling the growth
rate of the services sector to improve the access of the rural population to basic social and economic
services. The successful implementation of banking reforms and increased private investment in the
financial sector are required to improve broad-based access to financial services.
2.   Main sector issues and Government strategy
Introduction. The project (FIDP II) would: (a) complete the program of technical assistance begun under
the first Financial Institutions Development Project (FIDP); and (b) finance the investments associated
with the transformation of the largest state-owned savings bank to a privately managed and owned
microfinance bank.
FIDP was approved in 1995 to support the Government's financial sector development strategy. The
elements of the strategy are to: i) encourage competition in the commercial banking sector; ii) strengthen
banking regulation and supervision; iii) improve the payments system nationwide; and iv) develop
contractual savings and a market for Government and corporate securities with the requisite regulatory
structures. A parallel credit, the Parastatal and Public Sector Management Project (PPRP), supported a
complimentary parastatal privatization program.



Page 5
Correcting the massive distortions in the banking system was the Government's overriding priority
during the implementation of FIDP. The distortions were mainly a result of the market dominance,
combined with the insolvency, of the state-owned National Bank of Commerce (NBC).
Consequently, the emphasis under FIDP was on NBC's restructuring and privatization. On October 1,
1997, NBC, which consisted of 130 branches, was dissolved and three institutions were created: a
holding company and two banks: NBC (1997) and the National Microfinance Bank (NMB). NBC
(1997) is a full commercial bank consisting of 35 branches with business lines targeted to larger
commercial enterprises. NMB consists of 95 branches providing nation-wide coverage with business
lines targeted to small depositors. All lending products were assigned to NBC (1997).
Both banks were offered for sale in August 1998 and negotiations for the sale of NBC (1997) are
ongoing with a major South African bank. The attempt to privatize NMB has not been as successful.
The Government recognized that the privatization would be difficult given the need to transform
NMB's basic business line to cater for small-scale financial services. A bond issue to bring the
bank's net worth to zero, donor financing of a substantial portion of the start-up costs, and the
recruitment of professional bankers and microfinance experts under a management contract, were all
viewed elements of the privatization strategy.  Therefore, finalizing the management contract,
production of the bank's final accounts, issuing the recapitalization bonds, and finalizing donor
support were all seen as essential in generating investor response.
Structure of the Banking Sector. The 1991 Banking and Financial Institutions Act created the legal
framework for the licensing of privately owned banks and non-bank financial institutions in Tanzania.
Today, the financial sector consists of 17 operational commercial banks and 10 NBFIs. There are 195
branches/outlets and over 3,000 people employed in these institutions. In terms of bank penetration
and service delivery, this translates to an average of about 153,000 people being served per bank
branch. As a consequence of NBC's restructuring, and the entry of new private banks, banking is
relatively more competitive than it was five years ago when there were nine commercial banks. The
benefits of competition are also slowly spreading to urban areas outside Dar es Salaam as the larger
private banks have opened branches in these areas. The two banks that constitute the former NBC
together account for roughly half of all deposits as opposed to NBC's market share of 90% of deposits
in 1993. This represents a significant improvement in the structure of the banking sector.
However, financial penetration, defined as the ratio of deposits to GDP in percentage terms, is a
relatively low 15%. In addition, only a relatively few customers have benefited from the increased
competition. 85% of Tanzania's population reside in rural areas and for most of these, as well as for
small depositors in the urban areas, financial services have contracted since 1995.
The contraction of financial services was due in part to the Government's attempts to restrict the
operations of the former NBC. Despite previous and costly attempts to restructure the bank, portfolio
reviews in 1994 and 1995 revealed that non-performing loans had increased and amounted to 77% of
the total portfolio. As a result, the bank's Board of Directors and the Ministry of Finance signed a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in December 1995 which called for improved credit
performance and for the bank to attain profitability by June 1997. The MOU was monitored and
enforced by the Bank of Tanzania (BOT). The MOU required the Government to intervene forcefully
in the event of non-compliance.
Despite the retrenchment of roughly 3,000 employees, a doubling of commissions and a 50%
reduction in deposit rates, and the recruitment of professional bankers in managerial positions, the
bank did not achieve the profitability target nor was credit management sufficiently improved. The
MOU was successful, however, in constraining NBC's activities and minimizing the bank's losses. A
secondary impact was to reduce its market share. Nevertheless, it became increasingly difficult to
maintain the political consensus for restructuring the former NBC given the contraction in the
provision of financial services. The Government therefore adopted a more radical restructuring plan
aimed at facilitating privatization while improving and expanding the delivery of financial services to
small savers. This strategy culminated in the split of NBC in October 1997 following another round



Page 6
of cost reductions including the retrenchment of another 2,000 employees. The cost reductions were
identified as part of a comprehensive operations review of NBC.
Small-scale Financial Services. Roughly 85% of Tanzania's population resides or works in rural
areas. This population and their demand for financial services was the subject of a study
commissioned by BOT in 1997. The main findings of the study were detailed in the Government's
Investment Memorandum for NMB and include:
(i) 40% of rural households have a monthly income below Tsh 30,000 (roughly $45);
(ii) most income is generated on a seasonal or irregular basis whereas only 33% of households
receive their income regularly on a daily or weekly basis;
(iii) 96% of all households indicated that they save in some manner to offset the mismatch
between income and expenditure flows. 60% of these indicated that they saved mainly through
the purchase of livestock. Another 27% indicated that they saved through institutional
arrangements.
(iv) 37% of households reported drawing down their savings as the first response to shortfalls
in income, while 33% indicated that they borrow.
(v) Many households with savings accounts do not use them because of recent cutbacks in
service (closing of nearby or mobile branches as part of the former NBC's restructuring).
Nevertheless, most families preferred saving in institutions rather than in livestock and would
shift from non-financial savings to financial were the quality of service offered adequate.
(vi) Most households with bank accounts carry out relatively small transactions relatively
infrequently. They operate their account less than once per month, making deposits only once
or twice annually in line with their income flows. 80% of families indicated that a limited
liquidity instrument would suit their needs.
(vii) Only half of those interviewed had ever sought a loan over Tsh 10,000. Of those who
were successful, only 10% had borrowed from an institutional source and only 2% from a bank.
Overall, the study confirmed that the rural population requires a high quality savings service for very
low balance accounts with relatively few transactions. On the borrowing side, credit products should
be designed to accommodate very small loans with repayment periods adjusted to accommodate the
pattern of income flows. In addition, there is a relatively wealthier segment of the rural population
who, together with urban microenterprises, could absorb more traditional microenterprise products
and higher loan amounts.
In terms of supply, the informal financial sector in Tanzania is relatively small. This sector includes
the SACCOS for which the Rural and Micro Financial Institutions Project will try to create a
framework for bringing them into the formal financial system. There are 738 SACCOs with deposits
of roughly Tsh 5.2 billion (as of June 1999). Thus, there is substantial potential for expanding the
outreach of the formal banking sector.
Bank Supervision. The Bank Supervision Directorate has evolved strongly as a result of a series of
banking laws and prudential regulations. With the assistance of the IMF and training courses
financed under FIDP, the directorate has developed most of the basic skills necessary to conduct
banking examinations and now systematically conducts on-site examinations of all financial
institutions under its authority. Examination methodologies for both on and off-site supervision have
been developed, and a basic set of regulations to support the legislative framework, including policy
and procedural guidelines for the licensing of new banks and other financial institutions, has been in
place for some time. There have been some improvements in implementing an effective off-site



Page 7
monitoring system through systematic analysis of standardized weekly, monthly and quarterly
reporting forms for financial institutions.
There are three major problems that still confront banking supervision in Tanzania. First, the
inaccuracy of the financial data provided by the financial sector requires a higher level of analytical
skills and acumen on the part of bank examiners than currently exists. Accounting standards are weak
and disclosure is poor even though a significant effort has been made to establish an off-site
surveillance system.  Second, demands on the Bank Supervision Directorate have grown as the
number of financial institutions licensed to operate within Tanzania has increased. Finally, as the
number of financial institutions has grown, so too has the demand for Tanzanians with scarce banking
skills. As a result, the Directorate has lost some of its best people to the industry. A significant level
of turnover can be expected to continue. It is critical that the Directorate be able to recruit and train
new staff in sufficient numbers and on an ongoing basis to meet supervision requirements. This is
made all the more critical by the need to develop capacity to supervise microfinance institutions.
Other Sector Issues. In addition to the (mainly) successful restructuring of the former NBC and the
strengthening of bank supervision, there were other positive developments as part of the
Government's program of financial reforms. These include: (i) the privatization of the Co-operative
and Rural Development Bank (CRDB); (ii) the launching of the National Payments Systems
Modernization Project with a high level of sector participation; (iii) the opening of the insurance
sector to private participants and the creation of the institutional framework for regulating the sector;
and (iv) the creation of the regulatory framework for the securities market, the establishment of the
Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE), and the placement of the first two Initial Public Offerings
(IPOs).
There is nevertheless an unfinished agenda in many of the above areas as well as in others where there
was relatively little progress. The other issues that need to be addressed include: (i) the restructuring
and/or privatization of the remaining relatively small state-owned financial institutions: the Peoples
Bank of Zanzibar (PBZ), the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB), and the Tanzania Postal Bank (TPB);
(ii) reducing risks in the financial sector by facilitating the sharing of information on potential
borrowers; (iii) the liberalization and regulation of the contractual savings sector which is a traditional
source of term finance; and (iv) facilitating broad based participation in the privatization program
given the relatively underdeveloped capital market.
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Of those sector issues identified above, the project will focus on the following:
Private Provision of Small-scale Financial Services. The major strategic choice was to split NBC
and create a microfinance bank. The decision to create a microfinance bank stemmed, in part, from
the Govermnent's concern that the privatization of NBC would reduce the availability of banking
services to Tanzania's rural population. The bank would be committed to providing deposit and fund
transfer services at the beginning and will gradually develop a lending portfolio by testing various
methodologies specifically tailored to local conditions. In sum. NMB will gradually build a
microfinance portfolio making short-term micro-loans to groups and individuals without collateral.
During the transformation, funding for MIS/systems improvements, staff training, pilot lending
projects, and a management contract would be provided initially under the credit and then
increasingly from NMB's deposits and profits. Detailed descriptions of the sub-components are
included in Annex 2.
While a portion of the former NBC's T-bills and bond portfolio as well as some cash and reserves
have been transferred to NMB, it still has negative shareholders equity. The Government has issued
bonds amounting to TShs7O billion, sufficient to close a substantial portion (90%) of the original
financing gap. The remaining 10% will be issued upon the signing of the management contract.



Page 8
Within three months of the arrival of the management team, the Government, with World Bank
support, will move aggressively to identify equity investors. Until it is fully recapitalized from non-
government sources, the NMB will continue to operate under an MOU.
Although the MOU will be revised after a professional management team has been appointed, the
prerogatives of management and the Board will continue to be circumscribed until the bank is
privatized. The revised MOU will commit the Government, the Board and the management to
creating an environment conducive to "best practice" microenterprise lending. This will entail: (i)
non-interference by the Govermnent on the extension of loans and the setting of interest rates (for
deposits and loans); (ii) a recognition that the roll-out of lending products must be tailored to
Tanzania's circumstances and some time will be required to train NMB's staff on the extension of
micro-credits; and (iii) agreement that the Government would not directly or indirectly sponsor
subsidized credit to businesses or individuals since doing so would undermine the credit culture for
NMB and other mricrofinance initiatives.
Restructuring and privatization of other state owned banks. In addition to NBC (1997) and NMB,
the state-owned banks that will benefit from the project consist of PBZ, TPB and TIB. The project
will include funding in two phases. In the first phase, the project will provide technical assistance to
review all options for the restructuring and privatization of these banks. These will be discussed with
IDA and if there is agreement on the preferred option, financing will be provided by the credit in
phase 2 for the implementation of the agreed option.
Remaining FIDP Agenda. The proposed project would complete the agenda of sector and
institutional reforms begun under FIDP. Detailed descriptions are included in Annex 2 but, in
summary, include:
*  Strengthening Bank Supervision. The Directorate of Bank Supervision already benefits from an
IMF program of Technical Assistance under which a long-term Advisor on Banking Supervision
is currently provided. Under FIDP II, IDA would continue to complement the IMF support by
financing a comprehensive program of training in a number of key areas including Problem
Institutions Management, Credit Risk Management, Internal Control Environment, and Treasury
Risk Management. By continuing to upgrade the skills of existing staff and developing the skills
of new staff, the intention is to create a properly trained cadre of Banking Supervisors.
*  Reducing Credit Risk. There is no formal mechanism in Tanzania for sharing credit information.
When the market was dominated by Government-owned banks and there were few private
borrowers, there was little need for sharing credit information. With the increase in private banks,
the demand for reliable financial and credit data is steadily increasing. Conversely, the lack of
reliable credit information has been seen as a major constraint to the development of the financial
sector and capital markets. A feasibility study for a Credit Reference Bureau (CRB), financed
under FIDP, indicated that there was significant demand for a CRB. The study suggests that
potential customers favored a cooperative-type arrangement whereby the primary users of the
credit information would also be the primary owners of the bureau. However, the survey also
indicated that while a Credit Reference Bureau can ultimately be profitable, the estimated start-up
costs, representing initial capital spending and working capital requirements present a significant
barrier to entry. FIDP II will therefore finance, in conjunction with private sector shareholders,
the start-up costs required to launch the Credit Reference Bureau with the intention that it would
reach financial sustainability within three years.
*  Modernizing the National Payments System. The first phase of the National Payments System
Modernization Project entailed data collection to determnine the specifics of the current payment
system. This phase was completed with the production of the final version of the Situational
Analysis and Stocktaking Report in January 1998. This comprehensive document represents a
sound basis for moving forward and contains a broad description of the problems and
opportunities that must be addressed in the development of technical specifications. Technical



Page 9
assistance would be provided for conceptual design and the development of technical
specifications.
Promoting Contractual Savings. Prior to the approval of legislation in 1996 to liberalize the
insurance market in 1996, the sector consisted of the government-owned National Insurance
Corporation (NIC) and Zanzibar Insurance Corporation (ZIC). The Act provides the framework
for the entry of private participants into the Tanzanian insurance market, based on objective,
minimal but prudent requirements. In addition, for the first time, the legislation provides for
prudent regulation of the industry to promote ongoing confidence in the system. Nine private
insurance companies have now been set up in Tanzania. As a first step towards regulation of the
industry, the Government has established a supervisory authority (the Insurance Supervisory
Department) in the Ministry of Finance. The Department intends to develop a supervisory
methodology and policy framework which will include the drafting of regulatory guidelines and
the supporting accounting principles and standards to be adopted by the industry to meet the
legislative requirements. Concurrent with this activity, the Government also intends to address the
dearth of actuarial expertise in Tanzania and explore options for the appropriate institutional
arrangements for regulating pensions including analyzing the feasibility of a combined regulatory
institution for both insurance and pensions.
Under FIDP II, a study will be carried out to explore the options for privatizing the NIC.
* Developing Capital Markets. Under FIDP II, the project will continue to support CMSA by
financing short-term technical assistance, training, research activities and an ongoing program of
public education. CMSA is expected to pay for an increasing share of its operating expenses as it
realizes fee income from IPOs and listings on the DSE. To this end, FIDP II will pay the salary of
the CEO for 18 months after which the CMSA is expected to pay from its own resources. The
CMSA also plans to pursue the idea of cross-border listings in East Africa and to encourage a
regional link up with the authorities in Uganda and Kenya and other neighbouring countries.
The Government intends to broaden local participation in privatization while increasing the
financial benefits of the sale of privatized assets. It would do so through a recently established
Privatization Trust (PT) which will purchase shares of parastatals and, upon their successful
disposition, pay the Government its deferred acquisition price. FIDP II will provide funding for
the establishment and management of the first three years of the Privatization Trust (PT). Its day
to day operations will be carried out by a private management company with access to merchant
banking expertise.



Page 10
C: Project Description Summary
1.    Project Components
(see Annexes 2 and 3 for a detailed description and cost breakdown respectively)
-----------Total-------- ------Bank Financing---
COMPONENT
($ million)    (%) ($ million)       (%)
Bank Restructurinf                                   20.6   64.4%         18.1     65.8%
Bank Privatization (NBC)                               1.6    5.0%         1.6      5.8%
NMB Strengthening and Privatization                   18.5   57.8%        16.0     58.2%
Banks Privatization/Restructuring (TPB, PBZ, TIB)     0.5    1.6%          0.5      1.8%
Financial Infrastructure StrenLthenin!                6.3   19.7%          4.4     16.0%
Bank Supervision                                      3.0    9.4%          1.3      4.7%
Payments System                                        1.0    3.1%         1.0      3.6%
Credit Reference Bureau                               0.6    1.9%          0.4      1.5%
Contractual Savings                                   0.6    1.9%          0.6      2.2%
Capital Markets and Securities Authority               1.1    3.4%         1.1      4.0%
PT Manaiement Contract                                0.8    2.5%          0.8      2.9%
Proiect Management                                    0.4    1.2%          0.2      0.7%
Unallocated                                           4.0   12.5%          4.0     14.5%
Total                                                32.0  100.0%         27.5    100.0%
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The project is designed to support the Government's announced privatization strategy as it pertains to
the financial sector (see Sections B2 and B3). The institutional reforms supported by the project aim
to: (i) build a commercially viable microfinance bank; and (ii) strengthen the Government's ability to
regulate and promote the banking, contractual savings and capital markets.
3.   Benefits and target population
The main project beneficiary is NMB.  Substantial improvements in the bank will increase
competition in the financial sector, and improve the quality of banking services and lower the costs of
financial intermediation for the overall population in general, and the rural population in particular.
Profitable NMB operations would contribute to fiscal and monetary stabilization by removing the
need for recurring Government subsidies and improve overall macroeconomic performance. A
strengthened bank supervision will help build public confidence thus enhancing the mobilization of
savings by domestic banks. The capital market component would help to address the Govemment's
concem about the need for broad based participation in the privatization effort, and would create
opportunities for the increased savings resulting from improved access to banking services and the
liberalization of contractual savings. The project will strengthen the capacities of regulatory bodies
for capital markets, insurance and pensions, and by doing so, promote the gradual development of the
sectors.



Page 1 1
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation Period:       4 years, July 1999 to June 2003
Executing Agencies:          BOT, MOF, PSRC, Insurance Supervisory Department
and CMSA
Project Coordination:        T.A. Project Coordinator under BOT
The Directorate of Bank Supervision (BSD) would coordinate the implementation of the project.
BSD successfully coordinated FIDP and is therefore well positioned to continue this role. The
Directorate would be responsible for: (a) administering project funding and procurement processing
(including the employment of consultants) and managing the Project Accounts and the Special
Account; (b) overseeing project implementation activities by various institutions and coordinating
activities; (c) following up on the agreed conditionalities and financial provisions and proposing any
necessary adjustments and amendments to implementation; (d) providing. periodic project progress
reports; and (e) acting as the focal point of contacts between the Government of Tanzania and IDA
during the project implementation period.
The NMB management team contracted under the project will be responsible for the conversion of
NMB into a microfinance bank. Among other functions, the team will oversee the implementation of
lending pilots and systems development as well as undertake some training programs. The
Government's Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC) will coordinate the implementation of
NMB's privatization.
BSD would provide procurement support to each of the implementing agencies. BSD would (a)
prepare and update the procurement plan for the Project; (b) monitor the progress of procurement; and
(c) assist the implementing agencies. The implementing agencies will receive assistance to: (i) prepare
bidding documents and advertisements for goods contracts and requests for proposals for consulting
assignments; and (ii) evaluate bids. BSD would also advise the implementing agencies on procedural
matters, and provide support as needed for the procurement of goods and services, disbursement and
other financial services. Consultants, contractors and suppliers would be selected in accordance with
Bank guidelines, on the basis of proven experience. In line with the Bank's Africa Regional
guidelines, wherever possible, local consultants will be used.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. Project accounts will be integrated in
the BOT accounting system and the Directorate of Banking Supervision will coordinate project
accounting, maintain overall records, manage disbursements and produce the project management
reports, annual accounts and ensure their timely audit. The accounts will be maintained in accordance
with International Accounting Standards. The annual project financial statement, including the
special account will be audited in accordance with International Standards of Auditing and by an
independent auditing firm whose qualifications and experience as well as terms of reference are
acceptable by IDA. The Bank's Financial Reporting and Auditing Handbook would be used by the
auditors in accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines. Audit reports will be fumished to the
Bank within six months after the close of BOT's financial year. There are no audits of other IDA
funded credits outstanding in the sector.
Assessment of Project for PMR - Based Disbursement. A detailed review of the proposed financial
management was carried out during the appraisal to assess the adequacy and readiness of the project
to operate the revised disbursement procedures under the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI). The review was based on the Bank's guidelines for "Review of Financial Management
System", and focused on the assessment of the BOT accounting system as well as the format and
contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the BOT in support of
withdrawal applications. BOT has in place an adequate financial management system that can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project
consistent with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) disbursement required by the



Page 12
Bank/IDA. A separate report of this review has been prepared and made available and the main
features of the financial assessment are detailed in Annex 5, financial summary. However, BOT is
about to install a computerized accounting system. Therefore, BOT will remain PMR ineligible for
one year after the project's effectiveness date to allow the bank the time to become accustomed to the
new system.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrargements. The Directorate of Banking Supervision (DBS) will
monitor the project's execution. IDA will monitor implementation through periodic supervision
missions and review of quarterly implementation progress reports prepared by DBS. The DBS will
provide to the Bank, by December 31 in each year starting in 1999, an Annual Work Plan for the
following year. The preparation of the first Annual Work Plan covering 1999, satisfactory to IDA,
is a condition of effectiveness. Annual reviews of the projects will be conducted by the DBS no later
than June of each year starting in 2000.
D: Project Rationale
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
The need for the new credit stems from two factors:
(i) IDA's support is required to attract equity investors to NMB. IDA would finance the
technical assistance required to ensure that the bank is professionally managed and operated in
accordance with the best practices of micro-finance.
(ii) The Government's strategy for privatizing NBC was formulated after a detailed review and
extended debate of several options. The re-consideration of the strategy, together with the high
costs of implementing the split, resulted in a doubling of the consulting costs and contributed to
the accelerated rate of disbursement from FIDP. This was at the expense of other components
of the project that remain incomplete.
In its reconsideration of the privatization strategy, the first option reviewed was simply to privatize
the entire NBC branch network. This was rejected because: (i) the bank's large market share and
monopoly status throughout the country would have essentially stifled healthy competition for a large
part of the country's banking business; (ii) the bank would be virtually unmanageable as there was
little synergy between its urban and rural operations which were fundamentally different; (iii) the
bank would continue to be a "lightning rod" for political intervention; and (iv) the bank would be
difficult to privatize because investors would probably not be interested in NBC's far-flung network
and, even if they were willing to acquire it, would be unwilling to maintain it by cross-subsidizing a
large number of unprofitable branches or customers.
Another option was to dismantle the network, privatize the profitable branches individually and
explicitly subsidize those few units that were judged to be critical. This was rejected because of fears
that this would be too disruptive to the country's payments system, would maintain an active
Government involvement in banking, and would create major problems for bank supervision.
The Government's preferred option was to spin-off an entire coherent branch network and customer
base to serve smaller customers. Among the reasons were: (a) the NBC rural and small urban
customer base has a franchise value; (b) there has been a large resurgence in enthusiasm for rural
community banking especially in the Kilimanjaro region; (c) there may be sufficient numbers of
micro-entrepreneurs in Tanzania to build a successful lending portfolio if the right methodology can
be developed; (d) the potential impact on GDP growth (1%) from a 10% improvement in financial
deepening and credit efficiency is substantial; (e) the funds necessary to cover the capitalization and
start-up costs could probably be secured from investors and donors respectively, if the bank is



Page 13
carefully designed to reflect "best practice"; and (f) limiting and simplifying the banking products
offered can enhance the performance of the new bank.
2.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(Completed, ongoing and planned)
Sector issue                   Project            Latest Supervision Ratings
(Form 590)
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Bank privatization and capital markets  FIDP                    S               S
Privatization, civil service reform,  SAC                       S               S
deregulation
Civil service reform and privatization    Public Sector Reform   S              S
and Privatization
Microfinance                       Microfinance LIL (new)      NA              NA
Other development agencies
DANIDA - Bank privatization        Cooperative and Rural
Development Bank
IMF                                Bank Supervision
SIDA                               Capital Markets
Authority
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3.   Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The project's design reflects "best practice" experience in microfinance in several ways. First, NMB
has impressive market penetration that compares favorably with Bank Raykat Indonesia (BRI), one of
the best known most successful microfinance institutions in the world. Second, institutions that
provide both savings and fund transfer services, as well as credit, prove more resilient and successful
than those with narrower product lines meeting only a portion of their customers needs. Third,
NMB's remittance products constitute a major portion of the payments system for the country
providing it with a desirable non-credit dependent source of fee income and diversification. The
largest and most successful microfinance institutions see their primary task as custodians of savings
for the poor. NMB will focus on this aspect of its operations and will only gradually roll out lending
services as it tests and develops the most appropriate credit methodology. Fourth, NMB's plans to
maintain high levels of investment in government securities (including the recapitalization bonds and
other securities acquired using deposits) will offset much of the high potential risks associated with
expanding rural and microfinance lending' .
'Operational issues regarding the NMB are still subject to the business plan to be prepared by the management
contractor.



Page 14
Also, FIDP included time-bound performance targets against which NBC's performance could be
judged. This, combined with the resolve of the Government in enforcing adherence, was extremely
successful in downsizing NBC and reducing losses. The management contracts financed under the
credit (NMB, the credit bureau and the PT) will include time-bound performance targets. In addition,
all three management contracts will include elements of risk sharing in that a percentage of their
remuneration will be linked to financial targets. In the case of NMB, a percentage of the consulting
firm's fees will be linked to the profitability of the bank (as defined by return on average assets
(ROA)).
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The Government has already implemented a complicated and politically difficult restructuring of
NBC.  NBC's activities have been constrained and its market share substantially reduced.
Furthermore, in the face of substantial political opposition, the Government successfully dissolved the
bank, established two successor banks, and invited bids for their privatization, and in the case of NBC
1997, initiated negotiations for its sale. While there was considerable concern over the strategy of
splitting NBC, there has been no indication of a weakening of Government's commitment to
privatizing the bank despite substantial opposition. Although implementation has been slower than
expected - mainly due to complicated accounting problems - there has never been any reversal of the
implementation of the strategy.
The Government has demonstrated that it is willing to move decisively when confronted with problem
banks - both public and private. The Government has closed two problem banks in the last five years,
has assumed management of another within the last three months, and, until recently, had
demonstrated that it will and can enforce strict compliance with the MOUs that have been the basis of
NBC's operations over the last three years. The preoccupation with the negotiations for the sale of
NBC (1997) have diverted the Government's attention away from the monitoring of the MOU which,
in turn, resulted in further financial deterioration. However, BOT recently introduced measures in an
attempt to re-impose financial discipline on the bank's management.
5.   Value Added of Bank Support in this project
The Bank has been the Government's main partner in the implementation of reforms in the financial
sector since the introduction of major reforms in 1990. The Government and the donor community
also view the Bank as the leading donor in the financial sector and as a source of bank restructuring
advice. In microfinance, the Bank, as the secretariat for CGAP, is best positioned to advise the
Government based on lessons of best practice. IDA's support for the initial operations of NMB is
justified because without it, NMB is deemed too high risk to attract profit maximizing investors with
strong reputations and relevant banking and financial skills.



Page 15
E: Project Analyses
1. Economic and Financial Assessment.
The project is essentially a technical assistance project. A well managed NMB and stronger bank
supervision should build public confidence and increase savings mobilization. The net impact of a
financially stronger NMB will be to increase deposit mobilization which will in turn accelerate
development of money market instruments and the interbank market. Several surveys have confirmed
that the mass of the rural population requires a high-quality savings vehicle for very low balance
accounts with few transactions. The surveys suggest that NMB could easily double the volume of
savings from these types of clients if it improved its services. There also is evidence, based on the
experience of other countries at a similar level of financial sector development, that a 10%
improvement in financial deepening (as measured by the ratio of M2 to GDP) would lead to a 1%
increase in GDP. A more detailed description of the project's costs and benefits is included in Annex
4.
Financial Statements. The audited opening balance sheet and financial statements, preliminary
financial statements for December 1998 and projections through December 2002 are detailed in
Annex 5. NMB's audited opening balance sheet reflects excess liabilities over assets of Tsh 84.3
billion. The gap was a result of the allocation of all lending products to NBC (1997). By December
1998, the gap had been reduced substantially to Tsh 6.5 billion as a result of the partial
recapitalization by the Government through a Tsh 69.8 billion bond issue. Because of the deficiency
in the bank's net assets position and interest expenses associated with the substantial deposit base,
NMB's opening net income was negative Tsh 3.4 billion.
Accounting systems in NMB are weak. The bank's substantial accounting problems were inherited
from the old NBC and were compounded by the split. Although the legal transfer of assets and
liabilities occurred on October 1, 1997, the physical transfers took place over several months and the
criteria for determining the transfers were not finalized until December 1997. During the transition
period, the accounting aspects were not properly managed. The required changes to the recording
processes were not made and the accounting staff were not trained to make the changes.
Consequently, staff at the branches, regional headquarters and head office continued recording and
reporting transactions and balances as they had always done. As a result, management accounts
prepared by NMB (and NBC 1997) contained many errors. These were primarily due to erroneous
recording of opening balances and transactions for the first several months of operations. For
example, the loan, deposit and cash balances that were physically allocated to the two banks differed
from those that were legally transferred on October 1, 1997. The movements in those accounts
between October I and the dates of the physical transfers were not properly accounted for. Also,
inter-branch accounts were not reconciled.
The erratic movement of the bank's cash balances is another example of the weak accounting systems.
NMB's opening balance sheet reported cash balances of Tsh 7.7 billion and reserves of Tsh 11.7
billion with BOT which were almost 30% lower than the statutory minimum requirements (10% of
deposits). By September 30, 1998, the cash balance had increased to Tsh 11.9 billion and reserves
with BOT had increased sharply to Tsh 26.4 billion or roughly 70% above the statutory minimum!
This problem was the result of an incorrect transfer of cash to NBC 1997 at the time of the split.
Consequently, cash and reserves were initially understated at NMB but were reconciled by March
1998. Nevertheless, the preliminary accounts for December 1998 reveal cash and reserves positions
similar to the opening income statement. This suggests that the reconciliation was not finalized even
though the problem had been identified nine months previously.



Page 16
Financial Projections. The financial projections are based on a preliminary business plan geared to
the successful restructuring and refocusing of the NMB and the development of a micro-lending
operation. The plan is indicative since it will be revised by the new management team. It assumes
that the bank will be brought to zero net worth through a Government bond (i.e. a loan to the
Government from NMB). The initial interest rate on the bonds are 12.6% which were roughly the
rates for 3 and 6 month T-bills at the time that the bonds were issued. There will be periodic
adjustments with a cap of 12.6% and a floor of 7%.
By paying an interest rate that approximates the market rate, NMB is attractive to investors and has a
sounder financial foundation because: i) profits and, hence, return on equity are higher; ii) interest
rate risk on a huge asset is sharply decreased; and iii) the asset becomes potentially more liquid and
flexible as the opportunities to eventually sell or partially sell the bonds without having to take a large
loss will be enhanced. While improving the prospects for sale, the servicing of the bonds do represent
a substantial annual cash outlay for the Government. The outlay will be partially offset by: (i) 34% 2
income tax revenue from NMB's profits; (ii) dividends associated with the Government's retention of
30% of the shares in NMB following the bank's privatization; (iii) a potential ability to obtain an
increased purchase price through negotiations relating to the last 10% of the bond issue; and (iv)
passing on to NMB a greater portion of the projected start-up costs being financed by the proposed
IDA loan in view of NMB's increased ability to pay.
The main fiscal impact of the project will be the cost to the budget of servicing the bond, which will
range from a minimum of Tsh 5.4 billion to a maximum of Tsh 9.7 billion, plus the Government's
share of the start-up costs less receipts from taxes, dividends and the sale of NMB's shares. Start-up
costs for NMB are estimated to be Tshs 11 billion ($18.4 million). NMB will pay 30% ($2.4 million)
of the first $8 million and would then pay 90%, or $8.8 million, of all remaining start-up costs. The
70% paid by Government on the first $8 million plus subsequent 10% of the remaining start-up costs
totals $6.9 million (Tshs 4.5 billion).
With an interest rate on the Government bonds of 12.6%, NMB should be able to share the costs
associated with the "start-up" and still achieve ROAs of .5% in the first year of the project and 2.6%
by year 4 (see Table 1 below). Given NMB's diminished earnings capacity, it is critical that start-up
costs be financed through an increase in earnings, in the form of a grant or other interest income,
which will offset the scheduled expense. A non-concessional loan would provide cash which could
not be invested at a net margin suitably high to generate earnings that would offset the projected costs.
The net result would be an increase to the already significant financing gap.
2Based on 1998 figures.



Page 17
Table 1. Funding for Start-up Investment ($.T)
1999     2000     2001     2002      Total
Required Systems Investment           3,125      625       625      625     5,000
Required Service Investmenta          5,440    2,141    2,621     3,170    13,372
Total Required Investment              8,565    2,766    3,246    3,795    18,372
Portion Funded by Donor Grants          72%      10%       10%      10%
Grant for Revenue Expenditure         3,808      214       262      317     4,601
Grant for Systems Expenditure - current  562      16        16       16       609
Grant for Systems Expenditure - deferred    1,687  47       47       47     1,828
Total Grant                            6,057     277       325      380     7,038
Portion Funded by NMB                 2,400    2,489    2,921     3,416    11,226
a Includes management contract, pilo proects and dher human resmrces expense
Table 2.                                                         Capital
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Investment
CASE I
ROA                          0.14%   0.69%    0.90%   1.10%
Net Income                    258   1,332   1,847   2,407            5,844
CASE 2
RCA                          0.54%    1.17%   1.45%   1.67%
Net Income                 1  977 1 2,252 1 2,979 1 3,687            9,895
NMB Contribution (%)          30%      90%      90%      90%
to Start-up Costs (Tshs.T)   1,542   1,494   1,753   2,049           6,837
Rate Assumptions                    Case 1  Case 2
T-Bill          8.00%  12.60%
Gov't Bonds           12.60%  12.60%
Savings Deposits            6.75%   7.00%
Time Deposits            8.20%   8.50%



Page 18
NMB: Selected Performance Ratios3
15 months
ending
NMB Performance Ratios                Dec-98     Dec-99    Dec-00    Dec-01    Dec-02
Growth
Assets                                    92.1%     22.3%       4.6%     7.4%       7.8%
Loans                                      NA    NA          282.9%   161.9%     89.1%
Deposits                                  -3.3%     10.4%       4.2%     7.2%       7.5%
Balance Sheet Ratios
Loans/Assets                               0.0%      0.6%       2.1%     5.2%       9.2%
Loans/Deposits                             0.0%      0.7%       2.5%     6.0%      10.5%
Earning Assets/lnterest Bearing Liabilities  142.4%    150.0%  144.0%   142.2%    140.2%
Profitability
Return on Assets                           0.1%      0.5%       1.8%     2.1%       2.6%
Core Operating Expense/Total Deposits      7.2%      8.1%       6.1%     6.1%       6.6%
Source: Annex 5A; Appendices A and B
2. Technical Assessment.
The proposed project design, which aims at improving the delivery of financial services to Tanzania's
public in a number of ways, incorporates principles of effective technical assistance projects. Because
of the highly specialized and complex nature of the tasks involved, the technical assistance would be
long term and in country. In all cases, remuneration would be related to performance. The terms of
reference for all consultants would require consultants to progressively transfer their knowledge,
know how and responsibilities to their local counterparts. The bulk of the training prograrm would be
targeted to NMB and BOT's Bank Supervision. The latter is a continuation of the program begun
under FIDP. Most training would be in country. The exception is the specialized microfinance
course in Boulder, Colorado which will train 26 managers from NMB over a period of five years.
A detailed preliminary business plan for NMB was prepared as part of the preparation of NMB's
Investment Memorandum and as part of the preparation of the proposed project. The riskiest element
of the plan is the proposal for the expansion of micro-lending. As such, this element of the plan was
prepared with a high level of specificity and detail. Although the plan will be modified by the new
management team and private equity investor, the details of the proposed microfinance rollout should
facilitate the modification of the plan.
The plan's key elements are:
*  the strengthening of the bank's core deposit base to provide a stable, low cost source of funds for
the expansion of lending activities;
* the development of a profitable, more diversified investment portfolio;
* the reduction of operating expenses by streamlining operations and retraining staff;
*  the expansion of profitable fee-based businesses while micro-lending portfolios are gradually
developed;
• continued substantial excess liquidity arising out of the gap between its liabilities and the
gradually expanding loan portfolio.
3 These are likely to change when the management contractor prepares the business plan.



Page 19
Tanzania's previous experience with directed-credit programs to small borrowers has been
disappointing particularly in terms of loan recovery rates. It therefore will be necessary to develop
appropriate loan products and methodologies on an experimental basis before rolling them out
throughout the entire NMB network. The plan appropriately calls for an experimental phase of at
least 18 months to reach conclusions about the effectiveness of the loan model in assuring high
repayment rates. Should the initial loan product design fail, the experimental period would be
extended until a redesigned product had been in operation for at least 12 months.
The business plan calls for NMB to adopt a phased approach to the development of micro-lending.
This has been the recommended path followed by those few large banking organizations that have
successfully undertaken the development of micro-lending portfolios. During an initial period of two
years, NMB will undertake a pilot project in a few key branches in the system, where it will develop
loan products, administrative procedures, and the training programs and human resources policies
required to change the institutional culture. In the pilot phase, overall loan growth will be slow,
although the individual branches selected should push growth to the limits in order to test the model's
operational and financial parameters.
Equity investors will be obligated under the terms of the sale agreement to commit to the overall
business mission of NMB and the attendant level and sequence of investments in training, systems,
pilot projects etc. However, the Government has agreed to give equity investors broad latitude with
respect to specifics. For example, the management contract can be broken by new owners with
payment of a break-up fee agreed during the negotiations of the contract between the Government and
the management consulting firm. On the other hand, the new owners would be obligated to the
Govemment to contract with companies with experience in microfinance for the conduct and rollout
of a micro-loan product in the event that the management contract is terminated during the course of
the project.
3. Institutional.
The Bank of Tanzania (BOT) will have overall responsibility for implementing the Project, and its
Bank Supervision Directorate will execute the Project. Beneficiary agencies include: MOF, BOT,
NMB, Insurance Supervisory Department, CMSA, and PSRC.
The implementation of FIDP showed that the Bank Supervision Directorate of BOT has the capacity
to manage complex initiatives. Nevertheless, their administrative and operating capacity will be
reviewed regularly, and will be reinforced, as necessary, with ad hoc consultants.
4. SociaL
The project is expected to have a positive impact on low income and especially rural groups. It will
improve the delivery of financial services in rural areas and provide increased saving opportunities for
the rural and urban poor.
5. Environmental assessment.
a. Environmental issues: none
b. Environmental Category    [] A  [I B  [x ] C
c. Justification/Rationale for category rating. This is a technical assistance project for the
financial sector which will not have any direct or indirect environmental impact.
6. Participatory approach.
a. Preparation of the NMB component benefited from surveys of the rural public and focus



Page 20
group discussions. Surveys also were conducted as part of the preparation of the Credit
Reference Bureau component. The National Payments Modernization Project is a joint
effort of BOT and the commercial banks who are the major beneficiaries
b. Other key stakeholders. There have been regular briefings of the donor community during
the project's preparation. The Government of Switzerland has participated in several
preparation and pre-appraisal rmissions.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability will depend on success in privatizing NMB and converting it to a profitable
microfinance institution. Until it is privatized and fully recapitalized from non-government sources,
the bank will continue to operate under a strict Memorandum of Understanding monitored and
enforced by BOT. Ultimately, the sustainability of the overall project will rest upon the ability of
regulators to oversee prudent risk-taking in banking, insurance and capital markets.



Page 21
2. Critical Risks
Risk                     Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
The Government remains committed to       M             The Government has consistently
financial sector reform. Global experience has          implemented a range of policies
shown that this risk is usually modest to               aimed at reforming the sector. It
substantial.                                            has re-iterated its commitment in
the Letter of Sector Development
Policy. There will be continued
high level dialogue with the
Government to measure, and
attempt to maintain, Government
commitment.
The Government allows the management of    S            The BOT will monitor and enforce
NMB to operate the bank on a commercial                 compliance with the Memorandum
basis. Microfinance institutions the world over         of Understanding until the bank is
find themselves faced with political economy            recapitalized fully from non-
considerations.                                         government sources.
Disbursements from the credit will
be contingent upon BOT's
enforcement of compliance.
NMB is transformed into a microfinance bank   S         The Government has recently
in accordance with principles of "best practice".       adopted a comprehensive policy
The business of microfinance, as has been               framework for microfinance
witnessed in many countries, is inherently risky        institutions. It is soon launching an
and the concept of "best practice" principles           IDA-funded microfinance project to
takes time to implement.                                address the microfinance
environment. In addition, NMB's
management will be remunerated, in
part, on the basis of financial
performance and the roll-out of
operations in accordance with
indicators that are consistent with
"best practice".
Private investors lack interest in NMB    S             IDA support for start-up costs,
timely interest payments on the
bonds, recruitment of investment
adviser (possibly IFC) to implement
privatization of NMB.
The Banking Supervision Directorate is able to  M       Regular review of BOT's
retain staff and avoid loss of staff to the private     remuneration structure.
sector.
Overall Risk Rating S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 22
3. Possible Controversial Aspects.
(i) Adherence to "best practice" microfinance principles (including gradual increase in lending) might
not be consistent with the Government's desired pace of loan roll-out in rural areas and may lead to
increased political controversy.
(ii) There might not be "popular support" for the privatization of NMB if it means sale of some
shares to a strategic investor, especially if the investor is foreign.
(iii) There is some reluctance to allow the participation of non-residents in the stock exchange for
fear of a repeat of the "Asian crisis" through massive capital flight. However, the stock exchange is
not viable without foreign and non-resident participation. The Government is planning to undertake a
study, with assistance from the IMF, on the impact of liberalizing the capital account before a final
decision can be taken.
(iv) The role of the Bank Supervision Directorate as the project's coordinating unit is awkward in that
it poses potential conflicts of interest as the regulator for the beneficiary financial institutions included
in the proposed credit.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. During negotiations, the Government was asked to commit to the following:
(i)  The Government will not intervene in NMB to increase the rates paid on deposits or
decrease those charged for loans. It understands that rates paid on deposits may be quite
low if inflation is reduced and that rates considerably higher than risk free rates would
not be surprising for a microfinance institution.
(ii) The Government will not pressure NMB to extend loans under any circumstances.
(iii) The Government will not directly or indirectly sponsor subsidized credit to businesses or
individuals that could undermine the credit culture for NMB and other "best practice"
NGO initiatives operating in Tanzania.
2. Effectiveness Conditions
(a) the Borrower has appointed a management team for NMB on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association, with each member of the team having qualifications acceptable to the Association;
(b) the Borrower has completed Remedial Action Plans, acceptable to the Association, as part of its
enforcement of compliance with the MOUs, (c) the Borrower has submitted revised MOUs, if
necessary, acceptable to the Association, for NMB and NBC 1997 (if not fully capitalized), (d) the
Borrower has provided a revised timetable, acceptable to the Association, for the privatization of
NMB, (e) the Borrower has appointed an Independent Auditor acceptable to IDA to audit the Special
Account, and (f) the Borrower has furnished to the Association a Project Implementation Plan (PIP),
and the Association has found such PIP to be acceptable.
3. Other Conditions
(a) the Borrower will enforce compliance with the MOUs until NBC 1997 and NMB are recapitalized
by strategic investors; (b) the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a revised business plan for
NMB within three (3) months of the arrival of the management team; (c) the Borrower shall cause
BOT to furnish to the Association for its review and comments, by March 31, in each year
commencing 2000, an annual work program and budget for the Project, for the year next following



Page 23
each such year; (d) the Borrower shall cause BOT to furnish to the Association, by September 30 in
each year commencing 1999, the annual reports on the financial status of all banks and financial
institutions, with time-bound action plans for problem institutions identified in such reports; (e) the
Borrower shall by December 31, 1999 furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, the
annual work plan for the Insurance Supervisory Department, including details of resource
requirements; (f) the Borrower shall ensure that by December 31, 1999, a management team for the
Privatization Trust, acceptable to the Association, has been selected, (g) the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association a retrenchment plan for NMB, and (h) the Borrower shall provide to the Association
an action plan for converting to Project Management Reports.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Draft Project Implementation Plan was discussed during Pre-Appraisal and a revised draft
was prepared at Appraisal. The final version will be provided to IDA as a condition of effectiveness.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
-3
Task Team Leader: Antony Thompson
Sector Manager: Gerard Byam
Country Program CoordinatorRonald P. Brigish



Page 24
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Tanzania: Second Financial Institutions Development Project
Narrative Summary          Key Performance           Monitoring and             Critical
Indicators              Evaluation          Assumptions and
Risks
I. Sector-related CAS                                                         (Goal to Bank
Goal:                                                                       Mission)
Broad based private sector  Increase in private      BOT, IMF and Bank        The Government's
growth.                     savings and investment as  economic reports       development
perc-entage of GDP from                           program (including
5.7% in 1998 to 7.0% in                          the policy
2004, and from 12% in                            framework) and
1998 to 16.2% in 2004                            CAS supporting it
respectively                                     are well defined and
implemented.
II. Project Development                                                       (Objective to
Objective:                                                                 Goal)
To increase the soundness and   Share of private banks'    BOT, IMF and Bank  Political stability
competitiveness of the      deposits in total deposits   economic reports     and sustained
financial sector and improve    increases from 51.47% in                      implementation of
access by small savers and  December 1998 to 98%     BOT's Bank Supervision    macroeconomic
micro enterpreneurs to the  by June 2004.            offsite and onsite       stabilization
formal financial system.                             inspection reports       policies.
Reduction of non-
performing assets in the                          Implementation of
banking system from 4%                            sector policies that
of total assets in 1998 to                       lead to increased
2% in 2004.                                       investment
opportunities
Increase in rural deposits
by 14% (real) between                             BOT enhances the
June 1999 and June 2004.                          quality of bank
supervision and
regulatory environ-
ment, and enforces
prudential
regulations



Page 25
Narrative Summary          Key Performance           Monitoring and             Critical
Indicators              Evaluation          Assumptions and
Risks
III. Outputs:                                                                 (Outputs to
Objective)
A. Bank Restructurina
1. 1. NBC (1997) Privatized    NBC (1997) fully     - Sales/share agreement (s)  Banks are operating
capitalized and more than   - Bank supervision reports  in accordance with
50% privately owned by    - Audited financial reports   BOT guidelines and
December 1999 and,                      reosbusiness plans of
thereafter, maintaining  - MOU compliance reports  investors.
capital adequacy in
accordance with
requirements of the
Banking and Financial
Institutions Act.
1.2 NMB Privatized          NMB fully capitalized   - Sales/share agreement (s)
and more than 50%       - Bank supervision reports
privately owned by June    - Audited financial reports
2000 and, thereafter,   - MOU compliance reports
maintaining capital
adequacy in accordance
with requirements of the
Banking and Financial
Institutions Act.
Convening of the
Investor's conference



Page 26
Narrative Summary          Key Performance          Monitoring and            Critical
Indicators              Evaluation         Assumptions and
Risks
2.1 NMB operations          - Integrity of financial  - Audited financial reports  Bank operates in
stabilized by June 2000   accounting,           - Bank supervision reports  accordance with
cash/fimding and      - Semi-annual reports on    bspractice
backstop operations   -                        perfonnane  nucrofinance
assured                       .                priciples
- FY99 budget revised    IDA project
and submitted to Board  implementation support  Microfinance
and BOT/MOF           missions                 practitioners with
.                         ~~~~~~~~~~global experience
- Four year business plan                          al advie
and revised MOU                                       advis
2.2 NMB institutional                                                        management
strengthening designed    - Micro-loan pilot    Revised NMB Business     Board of NMB
and implemented.          program launched by   Plan                     withstands pressure
December 2000                                  to lend and allows
NMB's management
the freedom to
operate the bank on
a commercial basis.
Private investors
respond to efforts to
sell majority stake in
NMB.
privatization of PBZ, TPB and   iring of consultants to    TORs for consultants and    Government is open
TIB                        review options           investment advisers.     to all options for the
resolution of banks
Restructuring plans or
investment memoranda



Page 27
B. Financial Infrastructure
Strengthenin
4.0 Develop the capacity of    All examiners will have    Implementation Support BOT's management
BOT's Banking Supervision    Undertaken basic training  Missions reports;  implement
Directorate                 courses.                                       recommendations of
BOT supervision       bank supervisors.
Annual onsitereot
examinations for all    repoThe Banking
banks.                                    Supervision Directorate
Examination reports note                      is able to retain staff
lack of compliance with                        and avoid loss of staff
prudential regulations,                       to the private sector.
remedial actions are
ordered and sanctions are
imposed when necessary.
Creation of capacity to
supervise microfinance
institutions
5.0 Improvement of          Completion of technical   Implementation Support  Private banks support
nationwide payments     specifications           Missions reports;      design and
system                                                                  implementation.
BOT reports
6.1 Develop the capacity of    Adoption of regulatory    Implementation Support Regulator remains
Commissioner of         guidelines with          Missions will include    independent and is not
Insurance               supporting accounting    discussions with      "captured" by largest
principals and standards   insurance companies  Government owned
by the industry                                insurance company.
All insurance companies   Compliance reports by
meet minimum capital    Commissioner of
requirements            Insurance
6.2 Completion of policy    Adoption by Parliament    Policy paper
framework for regulation   of Government policy  Workshops
of the Pensions Sector  paper on pension reform
7. Establishment of Credit    Contribution by       Agreement between
Reference Bureau        commercial banks to the   commercial banks
start-up costs.
C. Capital Markets
8.0 Develop capacity of     CMSA paying 25% of       CMSA Annual Reports   Government agrees to
Capital Markets and     operating expenses out of                       open participation in
Securities Authority    fee income.                                     stock exchange
8.1 Broad based participation   70% of shares sold on  PT Annual Reports
in privatization through    DSE
the PT



Page 28
IV. Project Components/Sub-     Inputs (US$):             Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions and
Components                                             Evaluation                Risks
(total costs in US$):
(Components to Outputs)
1. Bank Privzatiaon (NBC)       1,592,1474
1.1 PSRC Local Consultants      221,000
1.2 Legal Advisers              715,000                   - Investment Memoranda    Successful negotiation of
1.3 Audit                       274,647                   issued to potential buyers   sale with qualified investors
1.4 Market Test and Advertising  141,500                  - Bid Evaluation Reports
1.5 Investment Advisor          240,000                   - Project audit reports  Political support for
- MOU Compliance reports  pnvatization and no further
for NBC (1997)         delays in the privatization
process.
2. NMB Strenthenine and         18,458,198
PrVzW*tzation
2.1 NMB Management Team         4,592,198                 - Management Contract     Appointment of
2.2 Training                    4,296,000                 - NMB Business Plan       management team with
2.3 Sys. Improvements           5,500,000                 - Semi-annual reports by  experience in viable
2.4 BOT Microfinance Adviser     200,000                   MoF advisor on NMB's    microfinance institutions
2.5 Staff Bridge Compensation   1,800,000                  performance
2.6 Deposit Mobilization          380,000                 - Project audit reports   Timely production of
2.7 Accounting Support/Audit      300,000                 - Consultant Reports      financial statements for
2.8 Investment Advisor            890,000                 - MOU compliance reports   NMB
2.9 Legal Advisors                500,000
Successful negotiation of
sale with qualified investors
Political support for
privatization and no further
delays in the privatization
__________________________________  ____=______________________          process.
3. Privagizationrestruduring of-   500,000               -Report of the study on the   Government commitment to
restructuring options for    develop and implement
3.1 Tanzania Postal Bank        150,000                    PBZ                      options for restructuring
3.2 PBZ                         200,000                   -Report of the study on the   PBZ.
3.3 Tanzania Investment Bank    150,000                    viability of TPB
operations.
-Report of the study on the
viability of TIB operations.
4. Banks Superusion             3,021,272                 - Production of banks     Regular supervision
supervision reports
4.1 Training (general)          2,601,272                 - Production of work      Regulatory enforcement
4.2 Internal Control Specialist   180,000                  programs
4.3 Mficrofinance Training        240,000                 - Post workshop evaluation
reports
5. Pavments Swtem| 950,000
5.1 Training and Sensitization  100,000                   - Consultants reports     - Fully functioning /
5.2 Vision and Conceptual Design   250,000                - Semi annual reports      automated system for
5.3 Technical Specifications    500,000                                              commercial banks.
5.4 Legal and Regulatory                                                            - Support of financial
Framework                    100,000                 l                            community.
4 Includes part of the PPF of $2,000,000 and $543,900 retroactive financing.



Page 29
6. Insurance and Pensions       600,000                  -Policy framework for      - Agreement on a single
Dereguh9ion                                             pension regulation         institution to oversee
pension and insurance
6.1 Consultants                 250,000                  -Framework forjoint         regulation
6.2 Training                    100,000                   pension and insurance     - Regular supervision
6.3 NIC Privatization Study     250,000                   regulatory arrangements.    - Regulatory enforcement
-Report on the study to
assess options for NIC
.____________ __________ _   _privatization
7.0 Capital Mrkeis              1,102,000
7.1 CEO                         132,000                   - Report of the study on the   Political consensus on the
7.2 Training                    100,000                   impact of capital account   participation of non-
7.3 Consultants                 496,000                   liberalization on the    residents in the stock
7.4 Computers and office equip.    374,000                 economy as a whole       exchange.
- Production of annual
reports
8. Priyafization Trust          800,000
8.1 Management Consultants      550,000                   - Letter of Invitation    - Timely availability of
8.2 Operating Expenses          250,000                   - Management Contract      counterpart funds
- Business Plan
- Semi-annual reports     - Freedom of management
- Annual audits            team to select the
- Consultant reports       enterprises for inclusion
in the Fund
9. Credit Infonnation Bureau    586,000
9.1 Feasibility Study           200,000                   - Feasibility study       - Bankers Association is
9.2 Start-up Costs              386 000                   - Establishment of Credit  willing to invest in the
Information Bureau        Bureau
- Availability of credit
information to providers
of credit
- Growth of credit sales
based on sound
information and prudent
decisions
10. Proied Manaaement           390,000
10.1 Operating Expenses         230,000                   - Annual audits           - Timely availability of
10.2 Project Auditor            60,000                    - Quarterly performance    project staff
10.3 ProjectAccountant          50,000                     reports                  - Knowledge and
10.4 MIS Procurement Specialist    50,000                 - Procurement plan         conmnunication to
- RFPs                     beneficiaries of IDA
procedures.
- Continuous coordination
between project
management team and the
beneficiaries.



Page 30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Tanzania: Second Financial Institutions Development Project
Project Component 1: Bank Restructuring and Privatization. - US$20.6 million
National Microfinance Bank (NMB)
NMB was one of three institutions to emerge from the restructuring of the National Bank of Commerce.
It was set up as a bank with a network of 95 branches providing nation-wide coverage with business lines
targeted at providing services to ordinary Tanzanians rather than the larger commercial enterprises. The
other two institutions were NBC 1997, a full commercial bank with a network of 37 branches, and NBC
Holding Company containing all the non-bank related assets from the original company.
NMB began operating on October 1, 1997 with Tsh155 billion in deposits spread over approximately
670,000 accounts. All loans from the previous bank were retained in NBC 1997 leaving NMB with
negative net worth of Tsh84 billion. This hole was to be filled by a special issue of Government
Restructuring Bonds with interest payable, linked to a moving average of the Treasury Bill rate, providing
a steady and secure income flow to match depositors' funds. The strategy for NMB is that it starts out as
a savings institution able to break even on the basis of a modest interest rate spread between deposits and
Government paper combined with fee income from remittances, payments services and account charges.
This would then provide a financially secure base from which the bank could then experiment on a pilot
scale with micro-finance lending instruments developed on the basis of international experience and
recognized best practice. As these new lending instruments demonstrate their commercial viability, they
would then be rolled out on a national basis, so that the bank ends up providing, not just savings and
remittance services to micro-level customers, but also credit.
To achieve this goal requires considerable management expertise in banking operations, treasury and
micro-finance together with substantial investments in staff training, new Management Information
Systems (MIS) and research and development funding for the micro-finance pilots. This project will
provide funding for each of these.
Management Contract. The assignment is to build and manage the NMB, initially on behalf of its
shareholder, the Government, and subsequently on behalf of new shareholders and investors.
Specifically, the management contractors will be expected to take NMB through four phases of its
development - stabilization, institution building, institutionalizing the strategy and turnover of operations
to management. The Management Team will be responsible for a number of key tasks, including the
following:-
*  Operating the bank prudently and profitably,
*  Developing a five year business plan for the microfinance bank that is ambitious with
respect to its outreach over the next ten years to micro-entrepreneurs and other MFIs, deposit
mobilization, and fee-based banking services,
*  Communicating the initial elements of the vision and its implications for staff, including
changes in compensation, new skills required, investment in training, being out in the
community and for the public,



Page 31
*  Actively supporting the privatization process, including the first round of capital and
investments as well as the IPO when the Government offers its shares for sale, and
*  Building a management team and processes that have the right mix of skills, energy, and
attitudes to build the bank and a succession plan when the term of the management contract
has expired.
It is expected that the management team under the contract will consist of 4 full-time employees for an
initial period of 30 months with an option, upon review, to renew the contract for a second phase of 30
months.
Management Information Systems. New banking software is urgently required by the bank. The
current "Easy Bank" application is poorly designed and inadequate to serve NMB's long-term needs and
high transaction volumes. However, it is too late to implement a new system and work on bringing the
"Easy bank" application into Y2K compliance has begun. Given the impact of the Y2K switchover, this
software should have been ready for acceptance testing by January 1999 and fully operational by March
1999. The projected costs of new banking software is US$3,761,477.
With the new implementation, the operations at the branches will allow both on-line and off-line working
(communications breakdowns - with overnight updates). Maintenance and support will be provided by
the bank's IT staff. An annual budget of $75,000 should be allowed for the purchase of replacement
equipment and spares.
All staff will require a carefully planned series of pre- and post-installation change management programs
to enable them to accept the controls and benefits a modern system will impose and offer. When all
systems become fully automated and integrated an examination of roles and responsibilities must be
undertaken which will invariably lead to further rationalization of bank staff.
Included in the costs is project management which should be carried out by consultants working on behalf
of the bank. These consultants may be more suitably skilled for overseeing the change integration than
the suppliers who typically take on this task. All consulting work must include a knowledge transfer
phase to enable the Bank to be as self- reliant as possible. This will also ensure that ownership for the
change integration lies with NMB management.
Staff Training. There are two basic components to the staff training activity: (1) the retraining of the
entire NMB staff that have been inherited from NBC in the basics of best practice micro-finance and the
manner in which they need to carry out their tasks; and (2) the technical training of the new loan officer
and supervisory personnel associated with the best practice landing methodologies selected for
deployment in NMB. A third component of the training activity is the training of senior management in
the international experience with best practice microfinance at international training centers such as the
Economics Institute in Boulder, Colorado.
The retraining of ex-NBC staff is critical in order to turn them into a receptive and functional body
capable of receiving best practice micro-finance products. NBC acted basically as a payments transfer
operation. It was the means through which money was moved around the country, either through savings
or loan products. The staff of the organization were not trained in the basics of risk-based assessment of
clients nor in the basics of operating financial services in a market economy. As in any transition
economy, great effort will be required to retrain staff who, although relatively young in age, have worked
in the NBC system for an average of close to 15 years.



Page 32
Experience in BRI, Grameen and other large microfinance programs has demonstrated that repeated
training is required to maintain the integrity of corporate culture. This is particularly important in
microfinance where many of the operating principles seem so different from custom. It is even more
important in retraining staff in an organization that is accustomed to working in a quite different manner -
as is the case of the ex-NBC staff. This means that training activities for staff should be repetitive and
occur over a long period of time. A series of courses will be needed to developed that staff cycle through
in progressive and periodic basis. BRI has a series of almost 30 courses that are offered in five different
training centers for it almost 20,000 staff on an ongoing basis.
A second very important training activity is the loan officer and supervisory training associated directly
with the micro-lending pilot program. The intensity and cost of this activity increases over time as the
loan products and procedures are developed and deployed. The first groups of loan officers are initially
trained by the micro-lending pilot consulting team as part of the process of generating the micro-lending
program. It is only during the rollout phase that the specific training of loan officers and their supervisors
acquires a substantial volume that requires local training capacity beyond that of the consulting team.
The basic training a loan officer receives occurs mostly in the field, through the process of accompanying
experienced loan officers in their daily work. The process of training a loan officer usually lasts from six
to twelve months before most programs feel that officer can be left entire on their own in making most
operational decisions. In Grameen bank, loan officers are put through a training program that lasts nine
months, during which time the applicants accompany senior field officers on their rounds and return
regularly to regional centers to participate in regular training activities.
In Tanzania, and in NMB, the process of training loan officers will be difficult. Given the nature of the
transition economy, the lack of experienced local capacity in micro-lending, and the prior track record of
the bank, applicants for the loan officer position will need extensive training. This program should span
at least six months before loan officers are left on their own to make operational decisions. At least
twelve months should pass, during which time they continue to receive reinforcement before they are
fully certified as loan officers and empowered to make all types of loans to all types of clients.
The training program should consist of an initial period of one month of classroom sessions combined
with observational field visits. This should be followed up by two months of field training where the
applicant accompanies experienced officers, who have also been trained on how to transfer their
knowledge. During these additional two months, the applicants should spend at least two days per week
in joint training sessions discussing the primary topics that have arisen during the field visits. During the
subsequent three month s the applicants return once weekly to training sessions at regional centers. After
six months, the applicants can be considered as apprentice loan offers and allowed to work, under close
-supervision of a zonal coordinator for the following six months. After one year, the apprentice loan
officers should be certified and raised to the status of junior loan officers, where they have full authority
to make all types of loans to all types of clients.
To facilitate this dynamic, the applicants will have their base salaries paid during their first three months
of training. These base salaries should be kept relatively low in relation to their base salaries as junior
loan officers. To motivate a strong recruitment and selection process, the salary subsidy will be paid to
NMB only for those applicants who actually reach junior officer status. In addition, a series of training
courses and materials will need to be developed for the loan officers and their supervisors prior to the roll-
out phase. These should be developed by the consulting team as part of their normal functions. The
training unit within the bank will need to absorb the administration of the courses during the rollout
phase, although the actual trainers will have come over from the micro-lending unit of NMB.



Page 33
A significant number of senior managers should be trained in best practice Microfinance at international
training centers such as the Economic Institutes' Microfinance training program in Boulder, Colorado.
This allows local Tanzanian managers to understand that the principles they are applying originate in a
broad and highly successful industry. This contact with successful experiences from around the world
will allow them to better generate local adaptation and innovation, which will be necessary in the long
term. These types of training activities will generally consolidate key principles in a manner which local
training cannot achieve.
Most of the top level managers should cycle through these types of programs. Some should also
participate in regional seminars on best practice microbanking in order to share experiences with others
who have embarked on the same strategy. Senior managers who have participated in these international
events should, upon returning to Tanzania, generate a series of local workshops to transfer best practice
principles to a broader audience as a means to gamer support for the types of products and policies NMB
will be putting out.
The total projected budget for all staff and loan officer training is US$ 4.3 million over the five year
forecast period and is primarily driven by the training of new lending officers as more branches are
phased into micro-lending operations.
Micro-finance Lending Pilot. To ease the NMB into the development and deployment of the microloan
activity, it is necessary to subsidize initial lending operations. There are few, if any, existing lending
products with a viable track record of profitability in Tanzania so separate funding of pilot products will
protect depositors' funds while allowing the bank to experiment on a small scale with a variety of new
instruments which could then be rolled out only once their commercial viability has been demonstrated at
the pilot level.
The simplest manner of providing a subsidy is to cover the full salary costs of new loan officers during
the period of time it should take them to generate a loan portfolio that covers their own direct costs.
Normally this would take a period of at about nine months. After that period, the proceeds for the loans
should cover their direct costs, and start to cover the indirect costs associated with the lending.
There are other direct costs associated with lending, especially transportation and back office operations.
T'hese costs usually represent about 100% of the total salary costs for loan officers. Therefore if the full
loan officer salary is paid until the lending portfolio generates enough interest income to cover this
expense, the interest income during that period may be used to cover an important portion (about 50%/6) of
the extra costs of the lending operations. Productivity gains in the back office operations would cover the
remainder. This system for paying the subsidy encourages these back office productivity gains,
stimulates sustained portfolio growth, is simple to calculate and pay, and finally, is highly sensitive to
changes in the rollout program. In order to keep control of the loan portfolio quality, this subsidy would
be paid on the condition that a loan officer's long term recovery rate always exceeds 94%.
Bridge Compensation Payments. A 1997 cost reduction study identified the need to reduce staff by
roughly 100 at the head, zonal and large branch offices. This would result in a 20% reduction in salaries
and benefits and would be achieved in part by continuing to streamline procedures through increased
computerization. The affected positions would be identified through an examination of those branches
with higher than average staff complements and an identification of staff who are overpaid relative to
their qualifications and experience. The retrenchment of 100 staff is expected to cost $840,000 based on
the terminal benefits paid during the September 1997 retrenchment.



Page 34
In addition, as NMB upgrades the overall skill levels of its employees, the bank will shift to an incentive-
based compensation system in order to attract and retain high performing staff. There are three reasons
for shifting to such a scheme: (1) it reduces the fixed level of salary expense; (2) it encourages more
productive and effective employee behavior since the achievement of performance and profitability
targets would activate bonus payments; and (3) it brings NMB more in line with current "international
best practice" competitive compensation schemes. Migration to this system, however, could involve an
initial reduction in base salary of approximately 25%.
The table below summarizes the investment costs associated with the restructuring of NMB.
NMB Investment Cost Summary
(US $'000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3 | Year 4   Year 5      Total
Core Savings bank
Pilot Projects                   76       76       76       76       76         380
Bridge Compensation Payout      820      820        0        0        0        1640
Sub-total                    896     896       76       76       76        2020
Micro-lending Operations          288     288
Pilot Team                      288      288      360      360      360        1656
Admin Expense Subsidy              4      30        0        0        0          34
Sub-total                    292     318      360      360      360        1690
Shared Investment         -
Management Contract            1,080    1,080    1,080    1,080    1,080      5,400
Systems Dev. and Acg.              0    3125      625      625      625       5,000
Training                         306     378      701    1181      1730       4,296
Sub-total                  1,386    4,583    2,406    2,886    3,435     14,696
Total Investment Costs          2!57     5,797    2,842    3  32              18.406
Bond Recapitalization. The split of NBC into NBC 1997 and NMB entailed the creation of a substantial
financial gap in the latter because of the imbalance between depositors' claims and the bank's asset base.
TIhis was due to the cumulative losses of the predecessor NBC as well as the decision to transfer all loans
to NBC 1997. The strategy therefore calls for the Government to issue a 20 year bond (Tsh 78 billion) to
fill the financing gap and bring NMB's asset value to zero. The bonds are capped at an interest rate of
12.6% which was the approximate market rates for 3 and 6 month T-bills, and the floor is 7% with
periodic adjustments. Apart from making NMB more attractive to potential investors, the rationale for
this strategy is: i) it provides a sounder financial foundation for NMB in that the new capital would be
roughly worth its face value in present value terms; and ii) much of the incremental interest rate cost to
Govemment can be offset by tax payments by a profitable NMB. 90% of the bonds were issued in late
1998 with interest paid effective from July 1, 1998. The remaining 10% will be issued upon the signing
of the management contract.
Bank Restructuring Fund
The Government's policy is to "exit" from the commercial aspects of banking. The credit will finance the
review of options for the restructuring and privatization of the remaining state-owned banks (PBZ, Postal
Bank, TIB). Once the Government and IDA have agreed on the options, the credit would finance the
implementation of the agreed strategy. However, until then, funding for the implementation of the
strategy would be reserved in the credit's "Unallocated" category.



Page 35
Project Component 2: Financial Infrastructure Strengthening (US$6.3 million)
Banking Supervision - US$3.0 million
In 1991, the Banking and Financial Institutions Act strengthened BOT's bank supervision authority. In
November 1992, banking supervision was elevated to the status of a Directorate and staffing levels were
increased. Since then, the Directorate has evolved strongly as a result of a series of banking laws and
prudential regulations.  It has developed most of the basic skills necessary to conduct banking
examinations and now systematically conducts on-site examinations of all financial institutions under its
authority. The initial design of examination methodologies for both on- and off- site supervision have
been completed and a basic set of regulations to support the legislative framework, including policy and
procedural guidelines for the licensing of new banks and other financial institutions, has been in place for
some time.
With assistance under FIDP I, there has been significant upgrading of technical skills within the
Directorate. Previous weaknesses in implementing an effective off-site monitoring system have been
somewhat addressed through systematic analysis of standardized weekly, monthly and quarterly reporting
forms for financial institutions. Implementation and compliance by the financial institutions have
improved considerably.
However, the Directorate still faces three major problems. First, the lack of integrity of the financial data
provided by the financial sector requires a higher level of analytical skills and acumen on the part of bank
examiners. Accounting standards are weak and disclosure is poor even though a significant effort has
been made to establish an off-site surveillance system.
Secondly, the number of financial institutions licensed to operate within Tanzania has grown considerably
to more than 25. The demands placed on the Directorate of Supervision have grown in parallel.
Finally, as the number of financial institutions has grown, so too has the demand for Tanzanians with
scarce banking skills. As a result the Directorate has lost some of its best people to the industry. A
significant level of turnover can be expected to continue. It is therefore critical that the Directorate be
able to recruit and train new staff in sufficient numbers and on an ongoing basis to meet the supervision
requirements within the country.
The Directorate of Bank Supervision already benefits from the IMF progran of Technical Assistance
under which an Advisor on Banking Supervision is currently provided. Under FIDP II, the World Bank
will complement the IMF support with financing for a comprehensive program of training in a number of
key areas. These include Problem Institutions Management, Managing Financial Institutions, Trade
Finance, Credit Risk Management, Internal Control Environment, Treasury Risk Management, Computer
Skills, Exposure to other regulatory functions in other countries, and development of an examination
manual. By continuing to upgrade the skills of existing staff and developing the skills of new staff, the
intention of the project is to create a properly trained cadre of Banking Supervisors which can effectively
supervise the Tanzania financial sector.
Payments System - US$1.0 million
The effective functioning of a financial system depends on the efficiency with which financial
transactions are carried out. An inefficient payments system hinders economic growth and is a binding
constraint to domestic and foreign trade. Specifically, a well-functioning payments system is essential to
the development of interbank money markets and securities markets.



Page 36
The National Payments System Modernisation Project was launched in August 1996 with the support of
FIDP. The project was formally introduced to all interested stakeholders at a Sensitization Workshop
attended by representatives of a wide range of institutions. The project consists of four phases:
*  Situation Stocktaking - this is a detailed investigation and data collection phase to determine
the specifics of the current payment and supporting infrastructural arrangements.
* Vision and Conceptual Design which aims to: (i) develop a comprehensive vision of users'
requirements (present and future), plus a conceptual description of the payment and support
mechanisms necessary for their satisfaction, and (ii) a time phased implementation plan with
order of magnitude development and implementation costs. The resulting report was to serve
as an agreed basis for the development of technical specifications for those systems accepted
for implementation as well as a clear indication of other essential changes such as changes in
the legal and regulatory infrastructure.
*  Technical Specifications - this phase will result in the preparation of detailed technical
specifications.
*  Development and Implementation of those systems approved for immediate implementation.
The first phase was completed with the production of the final version of the Situational Analysis and
Stocktaking Report in January 1998. The document is quite comprehensive and represents a sound basis
for moving forward into the next phase. It contains a broad description of the problems and opportunities
that must be addressed in the vision and conceptual design phase. The document was distributed to all the
relevant stakeholders and was endorsed by the Council of Commercial Bank CEOs in March 1998.
FIDP II would finance the continuation of the Vision and Conceptual Design, and the Technical
Specifications phases. The second phase of the modemisation project requires detailed knowledge of best
international practice in a variety of specialist topics. Accordingly, BOT needs to use an experienced
consulting firm to guide and support the subsequent detailed work. The specifics of the related TORs for
the consulting services have already been discussed with BOT and are included in the Project
Implementation Plan.
Credit Reference Bureau - US$0.55 million
There is no formal mechanism in Tanzania for the sharing of credit information. Prior to the financial
sector reform program, when the market was dominated by Government-owned banks and when there
were few private borrowers, there was no demand nor need for sharing of credit information. With the
opening of the financial sector to private banks it is thought that this will increase the demand for reliable
financial and credit data over time. Conversely, the lack of reliable credit information has been seen as a
major deterrent to new banks and to the development of the financial sector and capital markets.
With this in mind, a feasibility study for a Credit Reference Bureau (CRB) was financed under FIDP I.
This indicated that there was significant demand for a CRB and that the potential customers of such a
service strongly favored a cooperative-type arrangement whereby the primary users of the credit
information would also be the primary owners of the bureau. However, the survey also indicated that
while a Credit Reference Bureau ultimately has the potential to be profitable, the estimated start-up costs,
representing initial capital spending and working capital requirements amounting to US$3 13,000, present
a significant barrier to entry. FIDP I1 will therefore finance an initial subsidy to launch the Credit
Reference Bureau in conjunction with private sector shareholders with the intention that it would reach
financial sustainability within two years from the start of operations.



Page 37
Capital Markets and Securities Authority - US$1.1 million
The impetus for capital market development stems from the financing needs of the private sector and the
Govermnent's objective of broad-based ownership of privatized enterprises. The recorded pipeline of
private investment projects has grown steadily on the strength of Tanzania's economic reform program.
The limited supply of medium term credit and outside equity financing is a widely-perceived constraint to
the future growth of the private sector. The Govermnent's perception also is that the privatization
program has been hampered by the absence of a developed capital market which would enable broad
participation in the program. The Government has retained shares (ranging from 20 per cent to 50 per
cent) in many of the parastatals which have been privatized; the aim is to divest these shares to the public
when appropriate mechanisms for doing so have been developed.
The Government recognizes that a capital market requires certain pre-conditions for its successful
operation. These include macro-economic stability, low inflation, public confidence in the economic and
political environment, a sound banking system, and adequate accounting standards. Many of these
conditions can only be developed over a period of time. Consequently, the Government has elected to
adopt a gradual approach to the development of capital markets. To this end, in January 1994 the
Parliament approved a Capital Market and Securities Act to promote the gradual development of an
efficient and fair capital market in Tanzania. The Act envisaged the creation of an Authority to oversee
the securities market with the initial focus on the development of a simple over-the-counter (OTC) dealer
market in securities.
Under FIDP I, the project provided technical assistance to promote the development of a capital market
keeping in mind the Government's preference for a simple and evolutionary approach. Specially,
assistance was provided for:
the drafting and completion of a core set of enabling regulations
- an external advisor to provide regular assistance over the course of two years to the Authority on a
wide variety of regulatory and market development matters;
- basic training of would-be stock brokers;
- basic publicity and education program for the general public, including nationwide distribution of
information;
* technical assistance to complete the first public issue including design of distribution procedures,
determination of offer prices, determination of allotment procedures; provision of short 1-2 hour
training sessions for personnel nationwide on how to handle the public issue, supervision of the
allotment processing and so forth);
* the preparation of a stock exchange blue print and item-by-item action plan together with donor
funding requests for start-up costs.
Under FIDP I, the CMSA successfully established the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) to the point
where two Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) took place during the first half of 1998. DSE now has a small
pipeline of further IPOs which, based on listing fees, will allow it to become financially viable within the
next two years. Under FIDP II, the project will continue to support CMSA by financing a package
covering incremental operating costs, short-term technical assistance, training, research activities and an
ongoing program of public education.



Page 38
Insurance Supervisory Department and Pensions - US$0.6 million
Prior to the recent approval of legislation liberalizing the insurance market, the sector consisted of the
government-owned National Insurance Corporation (NIC) and Zanzibar Insurance Corporation (ZIC).
The Act provides the framework for the entry of private participants into the Tanzanian insurance market,
based on objective, minimal but prudent requirements. In addition, for the first time, the legislation
provides for prudent regulation of the industry to promote ongoing confidence in the system. Since
approval of the legislation, nine private insurance companies have been set up in Tanzania.
As a first step towards regulation of the industry, the Government has established a supervisory authority
(the Insurance Supervisory Department). With support from FIDP II, the Department will develop a
supervisory methodology and policy framework which will include the drafting of regulatory guidelines
and the supporting accounting principals and standards to be adopted by the industry to meet the
legislative requirements. In addition, and concurrent with this activity, the Government intends to address
the dearth of actuarial expertise in Tanzania which is required to support the development of the sector.
The project also will explore options for the appropriate institutional arrangements for regulating the
sector including a combined regulatory institution for insurance and pensions.
Project Component 3: Privatization Trust - US$0.8 million
This component would also provide funding for the establishment, on a pilot basis, and management of
the first three years of the Privatization Trust (PT). The Government has established the PT mainly to
broaden local participation in privatization while maximizing the financial benefits of the sale of
privatized assets. The Government would sell shares of parastatals to the Trust in exchange for a deferred
payment and, upon successful disposition of an asset, the Government would be paid its deferred
acquisition price. The balance of the funds held by the Trust, after deducting operating expenses, would
be broadly distributed either directly to an identified public purpose such as a Unit Trust, or indirectly via
a transfer to general Government revenues. Blocks of shares could also be floated eventually on the
Stock Exchange.
The PT has been established for a period of five years by an Act of Parliament. Its day to day operations
will be carried out by a private management company with access to merchant banking expertise. The
company's remuneration would be a combination of fixed and performance related fees.



Page 39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Tanzania: Second Financial Institutions Project
COMPONENT                            Local       External  Total
--------------  (US$ million)  --------
BANK RESTRUCTURING                                     4.5           16.1   20.6
Bank Privatization (NBC 1997 andNMB)                   0.6            1.0    1.6
NMB Strengthening                                      3.9           14.6   18.5
Banks Privatization/Restructuring (TPB, PBZ, TIB)      0.0            0.5    0.5
FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE                               1.0            5.3    6.3
STRENGTHENING
Bank Supervision   .                                   0.3            2.7    3.0
Payments System                                        0.3            0.7    1.0
Credit Reference Bureau                                0.0            0.6    0.6
Contractual Savings                                    0.1            0.5    0.6
Capital Markets and Securities Authority               0.3            0.8    1.1
PT MANAGEMENT CONTRACT                                 0.0            0.8    0.8
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                     0.3            0.1    0.4
UNALLOCATED                                            1.0            3.0    4.0
TOTAL                                                  6.5           25.6   32.1



Page 40
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Second Financial Institutions Development Project
The proposed operation is a technical assistance project which will provide the resources and
capacity to deepen Tanzania's financial market and strengthen its oversight by the central bank
and other regulatory bodies. The former hinges upon the successful transformation of NMB into
an efficient low-cost savings bank and ultimately into a microfinance bank.
The future growth and success of NMB as a best practice micro-lending institution are functions
of:
* a strengthening of the core deposit base and the provision of a stable, low cost source
of funds for the expansion of lending activities;
* the development of a profitable more diversified investment portfolio;
* a reduction of operating expenses by streamlining operations and retraining staff;
* and the expansion of profitable fee-based businesses while micro-lending portfolios
are built.
The Government estimates that the projected return on capital investment in NMB is
approximately 40% over four years if NMB successfully implements a business strategy based on
best practice in microfinance. However, the business plan is illustrative and will be modified by
the new management team. Also, the high IRR is largely dependent on IDA funding of the start-
up costs. This large initial subsidy is justified because without IDA support, NMB will be
deemed too high risk to attract profit maximizing investors with strong reputations and relevant
skills in banking and finance.
The main economic benefit from investing in NMB stems from the substantial potential for
deposit growth. NMB's core deposit base consists of approximately 636,000 savings accounts
valued at Tshs 75 billion. Since the split, NMB has retained 93% of the savings deposit volume
even though expectations were that some large customers would migrate towards more traditional
banks. The bank's competitive advantage is its expansive branch network that provides excellent
geographic coverage of all major regions. By developing new services, the bank will increase
penetration out into many of the poorer, rural communities. The current average savings balance
is approximately Tsh 100,000 ($150). NMB is projected to attract approximately 130,000 new
accounts over the next four years. Combined with a 10% projected increase in the average
account balance, overall core savings deposits are projected to increase to Tshs 124 billion, a
compound annual growth rate of 15%. This rate of deposit growth will be economically and
financially beneficial if they are channeled into viable investment opportunities.
Successful implementation of the strategy will require an investment of approximately $18.4
million over a four year period. The other substantial outlay is associated with the interest
expense on the bond issue. This will be offset by: i) 34% income tax revenue on the increased
interest so long as NMB is profitable; ii) a beneficial ownership of 30% of any increased after tax
profit created by the bond interest income in the form of retained earnings or dividends so long as
Government continues to hold this percentage ownership; iii) a potential ability to obtain an



Page 41
increased purchase price through negotiations relating to the last 10% of the bond issue; and iv)
passing on to NMB a greater portion of the projected start-up costs being financed by the
proposed IDA loan in view of NMB's increased ability to pay.
NMB will repay about 30% of the first $8 million of start-up costs to Government and should
repay 90% to Government thereafter, leaving only a small remaining subsidy cost to be borne by
Government representing a portion of the training component, recognizing some benefits external
to NMB associated with such training. The start-up costs do not include retrenchment costs
which would be borne by the Government and would be financed by the credit.



Page 42
Annex 5: Financial Summary and Financial Proiections
Second Financial Institutions Development Project
Proiect Implementation and Accountinig Resnonsibility
BOT will be the executing agency for FIDP II and BOT's Directorate of Banking Supervision
will be responsible for the project implementation, overall project planning, accounting,
monitoring and reporting. The special account will be opened and maintained within the BOT and
all FIDP II funding will be administered and controlled through the BOT central accounting
system.
Overview of Financial Mana2ement System of BOT
Accounting System and Procedures
BOT has a comprehensive accounting system, which captures all key activities of the Bank's and
donor funds. It has adequate written statements and explanations of its accounting policies and
procedures. The accounting system is on an accrual basis, which follows International
Accounting Standards & Guidelines. There are charts of accounts which are well defined and an
accounting manual is updated as the needs arise.
Computerised Accounting System
BOT uses an integrated accounting system called the Internal Banking System (IBS). Both
banking and accounting transactions are integrated into the general ledger. Each center/directorate
processes data independently and the same data are automatically integrated with the HQ
accounting system where consolidated trial balance and balance sheet are done every day.
BOT is in the process of procuring a new accounting and banking software, which will be
customized to its internal and external requirements. It will also be able to cater to new products
in the banking system. The new computerized system is expected to be in operation by July
1999. It will be user friendly with ability to import and export data from other software and
capable of customizing various reports. This will eventually include the Project Management
Reports (PMRs) for LACI disbursement requirements.
Staffing of the Finance Department and Responsibilities
The respective Deputy Directors (Foreign Accounts and Domestic Accounts) supervise all
activities under the Finance Department
The Foreign Accounts division is responsible for all payments and receipts involving foreign
currency and handles banking functions which involve foreign currency. The Domestic Accounts
division is responsible for all payments and settlement for goods and services procured by BOT;
budget preparation & monitoring, and preparation of final accounts & payroll.
All positions in the Finance department are filled with a clear job description and there is clear
segregation of duties. The department is fully staffed with 10 highly qualified and experienced
accountants with CPA qualifications, 13 qualified accountants with both postgraduate and
advanced diploma in accountancy.



Page 43
Internal Controls
BOT has satisfactory standards and procedures as stipulated in the staff regulation manual,
financial regulation, and accounting and procurement manual. These manuals cover in detail
systems, authorization process, levels and responsibilities and it covers all aspects of accounting,
procurement, stores, management of fixed assets & office services, staff recruitment, termination
and benefits. Internal Audit department is responsible to ensure all departments comply with
internal control systems.
Planning and Budgeting
BOT Budget process is supervised by the Director of Finance who issues guidelines to the heads
of departments and branch managers. The budget process is carried out between March and June.
In June, the consolidated budget estimates are submitted to the Board, after being agreed upon by
BOT management and BOT workers council. Budget reports are submitted every two months to
the Board for discussion and review.
BOT Audit Report
The audit of BOT under its Acts is to be carried out by an independent qualified audit firm and
the Board of Directors has a mandate to appoint any independent qualified audit firm on a
competitive basis. At the moment there are four audit firms which have qualified to audit BOT
accounts. These are PricewaterhouseCoopers, Tanzania Audit Corporation, KPMG Peatmarwick
and Massawe Ernst & Young. The accounts are supposed to be submitted to the auditor within 3
months after the end of the BOT financial year. The audit report for financial year ending June
1998 was issued in August 1998, one month before the due date. The report was unqualified and
there were no issues raised in the management audit report.
The financial statements of the Project will be audited by an Independent Auditor acceptable to
IDA. The Selection of the auditor is a condition of effectiveness. The auditor will provide an
opinion on:
(a) Adequacy of Accounting and Internal Control System
(b) Financial Management System
(c) Project Financial statements
(d) Special Accounts and Statement of Expenditures
Financial Reporting
The BOT will prepare quarterly Activity Reports together with quarterly Financial Reports. The
annual Financial Statements of the Project will be prepared in accordance with accounting
principles acceptable to IDA. The Financial Statements will include at least a statement of
sources and uses of funds, a statement of reconciliation of the special account(s), and a balance
sheet. The Financial Statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of
the fiscal year.
The Project Management Reports (PMR)
The Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in Bank Group projects, the
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). This initiative assists projects to put in place



Page 44
sound Financial Management, Procurement, and Output Monitoring Systems. Where appropriate,
if these systems are in place, disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMR) rather than on the basis of individual invoices or statements of
expenditures.
The Project Management Reports (PMR) required by the Bank under LACI on a quarterly basis
for monitoring and disbursements were shared with BOT officials coordinating the project and
the management information technology team who are developing the Project Management
Reports( PMRs) that will meet LACI disbursement requirements.
An assessment has been made that the BOT will gradually apply LACI. PMR procedures will be
implemented progressively during the first year of project implementation. There is the need to
ensure that systems put in place are operating smoothly. The monitoring and evaluation process
will include output monitoring reports which are consistent with the PMR requirements.
The financial, procurement and output monitoring systems will be reviewed at the end of the first
year of the Project to assess whether it will be appropriate to move to full PMR-based
disbursement at that time.
Conclusion
On the basis of the above review, BOT does have satisfiactory procedures for monitoring,
approving, and recording of expenditure. However, until the new computerized accounting
system has been installed and properly tested, BOT will remain PMR ineligible.



Page 45
Annex 5A: Consolidated Financial Projections for NMB
Second Financial Institutions Development Project
The attached table provides details of NMB's financial projections through 2002. The projections
reflect the focus of NMB's business plan, as presented in the Investment Memorandum, which is
on the restructuring of the bank and the development of a micro-lending product. The key
elements of the plan are:
* the strengthening of the bank's core deposit base providing a stable, low cost source of funds
for the expansion of lending activities;
*  the development of a profitable, more diversified investment portfolio;
*  the reduction of operating expenses by streamlining operations and retraining staff;
* the expansion of profitable fee-based businesses while micro-lending portfolios are gradually
developed;
* the bank will continue to experience substantial excess liquidity arising out of the gap
between its liabilities and the gradually expanding loan portfolio.
The main underlying assumptions behind the projections are:
1. Deposit Growth. NMB's core deposit base consists of roughly 636,000 savings accounts with
a total volume of Tsh 70 billion. Although some of the larger customers will migrate towards
more traditional banking institutions, NMB will retain its focus on the smaller, lower income
savers to expand its base. The bank is projected to attract approximately 100,000 new accounts
(4% annual growth) over the next four years. Combined with an increase in the average current
account balance to Tsh 139,000 (from roughly Tsh 100,000), overall core savings deposits are
projected to increase by 11% per year to Tsh 106 billion by 2002. This deposit growth rate will
be sufficient to finance the anticipated growth of the lending portfolio over the same period.
2. Investment Portfolio. While treasury bills would absorb most of the Bank's excess liquidity
and will increase at roughly 20% per year, NMB is expected to gradually increase its participation
in both the fledgling market for the sale and repurchase of treasury bills ("repos") and the
interbank market.
3. Loan Portfolio. Assumptions on the growth of the loan portfolio are based on international
best practice in microfinance and the limited data available on the performance todate of
Tanzanian NGOs, rural banks and SACCOs. If merited by the results of the pilot lending
project, NMB will begin a gradual roll-out of its loan portfolio roughly 25 months after the
beginning of the pilot. Over the course of the five year period, the micro-lending operations will
rollout into all branches of the NMB network with two distinct products: microenterprise loans
of between $150 and $500, and village banking type loans of between $30 and $150. Overall,
NMB will develop a portfolio of microenterprise loans equal to about $29 million and 104,000
clients over the course of five years. Concurrently, it would develop a portfolio of approximately
$5 million and 70,000 clients in its village banking type portfolio.



Page 46
Five key variables drive the IM's projection of growth in the overall loan portfolio:
(i) the number of loan officers assigned to each microenterprise branch is expected to increase
from 2 officers in the first year to 30 at the end of five years. The growth is capped by the client
base so if there are not enough clients to accommodate to 30 planned loan officers, they are not
incorporated. In fact it is assumed that only three large city branches can accommodate such
growth. In the village banking branches, where the number of potential clients is much smaller,
the increase is from 3 to 9 per branch. The growth rate is based on a logical sequence of older
officers training newer ones during several months;
(ii) the average loan balance per client in the microenterprise branches grows from $225 to $350
over the five year period. This is approximately equal to per capita GDP which is frequently the
yardstick for microenterprise loans in relatively less developed countries;
(iii) the number of clients each loan officer can handle at any one time varies according to the
lending methodology and the density of the target population.  In the projections for
microenterprise loans, the number of clients per loan officer was based on the productivity levels
of group and individual loan programs in Latin America. The initial levels were kept quite low
(150 to 200 clients per officer) and increased substantially over time to 350. This allows for a
maturing of the loan portfolio that is necessary to achieve the productivity levels required for
financial sustainability. In the village banking model, the number of clients was estimated on the
basis of eight village banks with 30 members each during the first year. Over time, productivity
per loan officer was estimated to reach 15 banks of 30 clients each. These estimates are
consistent with the numbers of clients per loan officer reported by the Microfinance Network
Affiliates who provide small loans throughout Africa.
(iv) the percentage of clients who apply and qualify for loans provide some indication of the
degree of market penetration that can be expected. The projections assume that no more than
one-third of savers would qualify initially and that this will be reduced to one-fourth by year five
with increased market penetration;
(v) the rate of expansion into new branches each year is a determinant of the growth of the
volume of the portfolio. The projections assume a rollout initially in the larger towns and then to
near-by smaller branches. Hence, rollout to rural branches is delayed for several years.
4. Loan Interest Income. The business plan sets an initial target of 200 to 240 clients per loan
officer that increases to 300 to 350 over the five year period. At the same time the average loan
balance is expected to increase by 14% per year. A further assumption is that microenterprise
loans would be priced 10% above inflation and village loans 15% above. The pricing assumption
is consistent with the experience of other microfinance institutions.
5. Investment Income. Conservative assumptions have been made with regard to projected
yields in the investment portfolio. The current average yield on treasury bills is roughly 9% and
the forecast maintains yields at this level even though this is substantially below historic market
levels. Investment income will also increase as a result of the issue of the restructuring bond at
an average yield of between 7% and 9%.
6. Non-interest income. NMB will make a strong effort to improve the breadth and quality of its
remittance and fee based payments services. By redesigning these services to better serve the
needs of its customers, these service are projected to increase by between 20% and 30% per year.
Also, NMB's pricing of these services are lower than its competitors and it should therefore be
able to increase prices without sacrificing market share. NMB also has negotiated a three year



Page 47
contract with the Government to provide draft and transfer services for a fee of roughly Tsh 1.0
billion per year. It is assumed that NMB will be able to renew this contract when it expires.
7. Interest Expense. NMB has approximately Tsh 20 billion in time deposits which will mature
before the end of 1999. They will be replaced with lower interest-bearing savings deposits
resulting in a decrease in the average cost of deposits from 5.0% to 4.6%.
8. Loan Loss Provision. The forecast assumes, conservatively, that projected annual levels of
non-performing loans would amount to 10% of loans outstanding and that annual charge-offs
would be equal to 100% of non-performing loans. The forecast defines loan deliquency as
payments that are 60 days overdue and assumes that loans are charged-off if they are overdue by
180 days.
9. Non-interest Expense - Salaries and Benefit. A 1997 cost reduction study identified the need
to reduce staff by roughly 100 at the head, zonal and large branch offices. This would result in a
20% reduction in salaries and benefits and would be achieved in part by continuing to streamline
procedures through increased computerization.   However, with the addition of nearly 750
officers to support an aggressive branch rollout schedule, total lending expenses are expected to
increase. The bank will shift the overall compensation structure to an incentive-based system
which is quite common among success micro-finance institutions. The net impact through 2002
will be a gradual increase in salary expense to approximately 60% of total core operating
expenses.
The Investment Memorandum notes that a crucial assumption is that there will be strict adherence
to cost control otherwise the pressure to undertake risky investments or make poor credit
decisions will be overwhelming.



Annex 5A: Appendix A:
Financial Summary for National Microfinance Bank
Income Statement
PARTICULARS                   30-Sep-97  30-Jun-98  30-Sep-98  31-Dec-98  31-Dec-99  31-Dec-00  31-Dec-01   31-Dec-02
Source                        IM         PWC        PWC        NMB        Projected   Projected   Projected    Projected
Status                        Audited    Unaudited  Unaudited Preliminary
Basis                         Annual    Quarterly  Quarterly  Quarterly
Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million  Tsh million
Interest Income
Loans, Advances & Overdrafts            0         0          0          0        327         781       2,222       4,610
Treasury,Bills                        316       700        192        491       2,618      3,182       3,676       4,146
Government Bonds                      569       466      2,621       2,704     11,398     11,398      11,398      11,398
Other                                  99        17         45        136        306         398         431        462
Total Interest Income                 984      1.183     2,858       3,331     14,649     15,759      17727       20616
Interest Expense                                                                                                                                       t
Interest on Savings Deposits        1,188       892      1,164        872       4,309      5,096       5,717       6,415
Interest on Govt. Time Deposits       147        30         96         94         191        156         144         146
Interest on Other Time Deposits      585         63         60        108        289         146          97         98
Other Interest Expense                 17       216        208        203          4           4           4           4
Total Interest Expense              1.937      1,201      1 528      1,277      4,793      5,402       5,962       6,663
INTEREST MARGIN                     -953        -18      1,330       2,054      9,856     10,357      11,765      13,953
Provision for Loan Losses               0         0          0          0         50         209         188        706
NET INTEREST MARGIN                 -953        -18      1,330       2,054      9,906     10,566      11,953      14,659
Non Interest Income
Bills for Collection                  123        43         51         81        277         346         450        607
Drafts & Transfers                   226        212        252        285       1,237      1,485       1,781       2,138
Government Fees                         0       600          0          0       1,600      1,600       1,600       1,600
Deposit Fees                         292        395        237        258        654         681        731          787
Other                                 168       375        135        187       2,563      2,694       2,882       3,088
Total Domestic Operations Income      809      1 625       675        811       6 331      6 806       7,444       8.220



PARTICULARS                    30-Sep-97  30-Jun-98  30-Sep-98  31-Dec-98  31-Dec-99  31-Dec-00  31-Dec-01   31-Dec-02
Source                         IM          PWC        PWC        NMB        Projected   Projected   Projected    Projected
Status                         Audited    Unaudited  Unaudited  Preliminary
Basis                          Annual    Quarterly  Quarterly  Quarterly
Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million  Tsh million
Foreign Exchange Gain/Loss             -91         -6        742        868           0           0           0           0
Total Non-Interest Income              718      1 619      1.417       1,679      6.331       6 806       7 444       8,220
Non Interest Expenses
Salaries                               636        969        578        895       4,038       4,361       4,926       5,784
Benefits                               452        302        294        420       1,233       1,258         820         837
Office                                 693        502        472        781       1,806       1,806       1,806       1,806
Maintenance                            444        187        331        290         673        673          673         673
Other                                  192        141        218        302         563        731        1,079       1,641
Human Resource Expense                   0          0          0          0         503           0           0           0
Salary Equalization Payments             0          0          0          0         481           0           0           0
Pilot Projects                           0          0          0          0         574        216          216         216                                  X
Management Contract                      0          0          0          0       1,296        648          648         648
Systems                                  0          0          0          0       1,876        376          376         376
Staff Training                           0          0          0          0         410        420          708        1,038
TotalOperatingExpense                2.417      2,101      1.893       2.688     13,453      10.489      11252       13019
Depreciation                           184        159        169        963       1,134       1,228       1,321         946
Other Provision Losses                 522         99        101        -17         298        298          298         298
Total Non-Interest Expense           3,123      2,359      2.163       3.634     14 885      12 015      12.871      14263
INCOME BEFORE TAX                   -3,358       -758        584         99       1,352       5,357       6,526       8,616
Tax                                      0          0          0          0         460       1,821       2,219       2,929
NET INCOME                          -3,358       -758        584         99         892       3,536       4,307       5,687
Dividends (%o)                           0          0          0          0           1           1           1           1
Dividends ($)                            0          0          0          0         446       1,768       2,154       2,843



Annex 5A: Appendix B
Tanzania: Second Financial Institutions Development Project
Financial Summary for National Microfinance Bank
Balance Sheet
PARTICULARS                           30-Sep-97  30-Jun-98  30-Sep-98  31-Dec-98  31-Dec-99  31-Dec-00  31-Dec-01   31-Dec-02
Source                                IM         PWC        PWC        NMB        Projected   Projected   Projected   Projected
Status                                Audited    Unaudited  Unaudited Preliminary
Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million  Tsh million
Cash, Foreign Exchange Notes & Coins        7,672     10,959    11,874      13,004     13,134      13,266      13,398      13,532
Cheques and Items for Clearance              651        339       1,716      1,925        440        573         744         968
Balances with Bank of Tanzania             11,692     21,128    26,405      12,685     21,091     21,539      22,543      23,935
Net Due from Other Banks                    3,401      6,843    16,890      12,828      7,378      7,960        8,592       9,279
- Banks in Tanzania                           0      2,979     12,610      8,046       3,128      3,285       3 449       3,622
- Banks Abroad                            3,401      3,864      4,280      4,782       4,250      4,675       5,143       5,657
Net Investment in Debt Securities          26,446     32,798    93,480      99,735    129,367    135,012      141,994     147,021
- Treasury Bills                         10,758     17,110      8,032     14,287      36,912     42,557      49,539      54,566
- Government Restructuring Bonds         15,688     15,688     85,448     85,448      92,455     92,455      92,455      92,455
Interbank Loans                                0       1,650         0          0       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000
Commercial and Other Bills Purchased and       0          8         11          3         500        500         500         500
Discounted - Net
Loans, Advances and Overdrafts                 0          0          0          0       1,102      4,220       11,054     20,901
Less Provision for Losses                     0          0         0           0         55        253          332        627
Other Assets
Prepayments & Sundry Assets                 1,104      3,381     2,949       6,657      3,449      3,518        3,588       3,660
Interbranch Float Items                    18,603      2,570     1,140      -1,102      2,056      1,644        1,398       1,398
Fixed Assets                               12.098     12,159    12,356      12,398     14,034     14,409       14,784      15,159
Less Depreciation                          -4,397     -4,888     -5,058     -5,280     -6,355     -7,582       -8,904      -9,850
Other Assets                                2,574       411        451        510         475        499         524         550
TotalOtherAssets                           29,982     13,633    11,838      13,183     13,659     12,488       11,390      10,917
TOTAL ASSETS                               79,844     87,358    162,214    153,363    187,616    196,305     210,883     227,426



PARTICULARS                          30-Sep-97  30-Jun-98  30-Sep-98  31-Dec-98  31-Dec-99  31-Dec-00  31-Dec-01   31-Dec-02
Source                              IM         PWC        PWC       NMB        Projected   Projected   Projected   Projected
Status                               Audited    Unaudited  Unaudited Preliminary
Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million Tsh million  Tsh million
LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY
Biashara Accounts                             0     12,578     9,784     11,850     13,348     13,615     13,887      14,165
Government - current                     47,486    44,947     58,288     49,425     49,425     49,425     49,425      49,425
Govemment - Time Deposits                 8.432     5.500      6.382      5 950      5,950      5 950      5.950       5,950
Other Time Deposits                      23,701     18,160    12,890     11,488      7,855      3,814      3,890       3,967
Savinas                                  75170    65781    66.026        Z.4        88,333     99109     111200      124,767
Other Deposits (Special)                      0        73        88        288        288        288         288         288
Total Deposits                          154,789   147,039   153,458    149,625    165,199    172,201     184,640     198,562
Amounts Due to Banks                        783      6,600     3,962         0       6,600      6,600      6,600       6,600
Clearing & Bills Payable                  5,846     8,709      8,952      7,790      8,970      9,240      9,517       9,802
Other Liabilities                         2,727     2,594      3,083      2,426      1,215      1,215      1,215       1,215
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       164,145   164,942   169,455    159,841    181,984    189,256     201,972     216,179
Paid-Up Share Capital
Retained Eamings
- brought forward                     -80,944    -84,213    -84,213    -84,213    -15,379    -9,599      -8,508      -7,552
- current proftloss                    -3,357     -3,485    -2,900     -2,136       892       3,536      4,307       5,687
- bonds issued                              0         0    69,760      69,760      7,007         0           0           0
Common Eauit                                  Q         0         0          0       3,000      3,000      3 000       3.000
Capital Contrbution                          0      10,112    10,112     10,112     10,112     10,112     10,112      10,112
Total Share Capital                     -84,301    -77,585    -7,240     -6,476      5,632     7,049       8,911      11,247
TOTAL LIABILITIES & CAPITAL              79,844    87,357   162,215    153,365    187,616    196,305     210,883     227,426



Page 52
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Tanzania: Second Financial Institutions Development Project
1.   A preliminary Procurement Plan is attached as Appendix 6A. All goods and services under the
IDA credit would be procured in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines for goods and works
including related services (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits, January 1995
and revised in January and August 1996 and September, 1997 and January 1999 and: Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and
September 1997 and revised January 1999). The management of the procurement of goods and
equipment, and consultant services under the Project would be the responsibility of the Bank
Supervision Directorate in BOT who will be supported by administrative, procurement and other
required staff on an on-going or as needed basis. This unit managed procurement arrangements (mainly
consulting services) adequately under FIDP.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                  Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB         Other
1. Goods & Equipment                5.83                    0.19                       6.02
(5.30)                 (0.18)                     (5.48)
2. Consultant Services                                     13.18                      13.18
(12.99)                   (12.99)
3. Foreign Training                                         0.26                       0.26
(0.26)                    (0.26)
4. Local Training                                           6.35                       6.35
(2.96                     (2.96
5. Employee Bridge Pavments                                 1.80                       1.80
(1.60)                    (1.60)
6. Project Management                                       0.39                       0.39
(0.16)                    (0.16)
7. Unallocated                                              4.00                       4.00
(4.00)                    (4.00)
Total                               5.83                   26.17                      32.00
(5.30)                (22.15)                   (27.45)
- Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
- ICB: International Competitive Bidding
- NCB: National Competitive Bidding
- IDA financing will only fund goods and consultants' services procured under Bank guidelines
- $160,000 for the Project Auditor, Project Accountant and the MIS Procurement Expert are included under Category 6
(Project Management)



Page 53
2.   Procurement Capacity of BOT. Each Project component would be implemented by a
specifically designated agency who would be primarily responsible for the execution of project
activities and timely delivery of outputs as defined and agreed under the Project Implementation
Plan. BOT would provide procurement support to each of the implementing agencies. Given the
number of consultant's contracts envisaged under the Project, particularly in the first year of
implementation, BOT will liaise very closely with a counterpart designated by the Commissioner
for Insurance, the CMSA, and PSRC. The Coordinator would (i) prepare and update the
procurement plan for the project; (ii) monitor the progress of procurement; and assist the
implementing agencies in (i) the preparation of bidding documents and advertisements for goods
and works contracts and requests for proposals for consulting assignments; and (iii) bid opening
and evaluation. The Coordinator would also advise the Implementing Agencies on procedural
matters.
3.   Procurement Plan. A draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared for the
Project and would be finalized and published in Development Business after Board approval.
The GPN would be updated every six months and submitted to IDA. It would show all
outstanding ICB for goods contracts; and international consulting assignments. A procurement
plan would be prepared by the Borrower, as a condition for effectiveness, and include relevant
information on all goods, works and services contracts under the Project as well as the timing of
each milestone in the procurement process. The procurement schedule would be updated every
six months and submitted to IDA.
4.   Training. Training within the country and abroad will be carried out on the basis of IDA
approved programs which would identify the nature of training, personnel to be trained, the
duration of training, institutions where training would be conducted, estimated cost of training,
etc. A training plan will be agreed with IDA during Appraisal and will be incorporated into the
overall project implementation plan. Any proposed major changes or modifications to the plan
during implementation will be submitted to IDA for its review and clearance. The NMB training
program will be prepared three months after the management team has assumed their duties.
5.   Goods and Equipment. Purchasing of goods and equipment under the IDA credit would
be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines for procurement of goods and works including
related services (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits, January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996 and September, 1997 and January 1999). To the extent
possible and practicable, the procurement of goods would be combined into packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 equivalent or more and would be procured under ICB
procedures using IDA Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts for goods available locally for an
aggregate amount of US$700,000 with contracts between US$50,000 and US$100,000 each
would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using the Bank's standard
bidding documents suitably adopted for NCB. IDA review of the first draft of the bidding
documents for NCB is expected to become the standard for future contracts. Goods procured
under the credit in support of improvements to NMB's management information systems (MIS)
would use the Bank's SBD for computerware.
6.   Procurement for readily available off-the shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard
specifications commodities for contracts less than US$50,000 not exceeding an aggregate amount
of US$100,000 for the life of the Project, would be procured on the basis of companrson of
quotations from at least three eligible national suppliers. If these goods are not available in the
country, international shopping procedures would be followed. IAPSO procurement may be used
for purchase of equipment needed at the start of the Project and which cannot be packaged for
competitive tenders, for an aggregate amount of US$0.3 million.



Page 54
7.   Consultant Services. Selection and appointment of consultants for studies, technical
assistance, and support of project execution would be carried out in accordance with the
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January
1997 and September 1997 and revised January 1999 (Consultant Guidelines). As a rule,
consultant services would be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
methodology. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 200,000 or
more would be advertised in a national newspaper and in Development Business (UNDB). In
addition, the contracts may be advertised in an international newspaper or a technical magazine
seeking "expressions of interest". For contracts with a value of less than the equivalent of
US$200,000, the short list may consist entirely of national consultants (firms with majority
national ownership and registered or incorporated in the country), if a sufficient number of
qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs, and competition including
foreign consultants is prima facie not justified. However, if foreign firms have made it known
that they are interested, they will not be excluded. Contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or
less the assignment may be advertised nationally and the short list may also be made up entirely
of national consultants provided that at least three qualified national firms are available at
competitive cost in the country and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded
from consideration. Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ 50,000
may be contracted by comparing the qualifications of consultants who have expressed an interest
in the job or who have been identified. Auditors would be selected using Least-Cost Selection
procedures.
8.   The Bank's Standard Request for Proposal Form and Standard Formns of Contracts will be
used for hiring consultants. For audit services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or
less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$200,000, the selection will be made
based on least-cost selection. For other consultant services not exceeding the equivalent of
US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$200,000, the selection will
be made on the basis of the qualifications of the consultants. Consultant services for conferences
and seminars or for small studies, which are estimated to cost more than US$50,000 per contract
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$200,000, may be also be engaged on basis of
consultants qualifications from a list of candidates who have expressed interest in the job or from
a list of identified candidates who are suitably qualified to carry out the assignment.
9.   Review by the Bank. All goods contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more would be
subject to prior review by IDA. This means that IDA clearance is needed before finalizing the
draft bidding documents (including the draft contracts and technical specifications) and before
inviting bids. IDA review of bid evaluation report would also be required prior to final contract
award.
10.  All draft Request for Proposals (RFP) and shortlists of consultants must be cleared by IDA
prior to inviting proposals. In addition, the technical evaluation result would be cleared with IDA
before the financial proposals are opened.
11.  With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 50,000 or more but less than the equivalent of US$ 100,000, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix
I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. With respect to each contract for the employment of
the consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more and each contract
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 50,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultants Guidelines shall apply.



Page 55
Annex 6, Table B
Consultant Selection Arrangements
Consultant Services                                  Selection Method              Total Cost
_   QCBS       LCS       CQ        Other
NBC Accounting Support /i                 274,647                                      274,647
NBC Investment Adviser /1                                                 240,000      240,000
PSRC Local Consultants/l                                       221,000                 221,000
NBC Legal Advisers /1                     715,000                                      715,000
NMB Management Team  2/                  4,592,198                                   4,592,198
NMB Deposit Mobilization                  380,000                                      380,000
NMB Investment Adviser                    890,000                                      890,000
NMB Legal Advisers                        500,000                                      500,000
Microfinance Advisor to BOT                                    200,000                 200,000
NMB Auditor                               300,000                                      300,000
NMB Training- Consultants                 826,000                                      826,000
PBZ, TIB and TPB Restr. and Priv.         200,000                                      200,000
TIB Restr. and Priv.                       150,000                                     150,000
TPB Restr. and Priv.                       150,000                                     150,000
Internal Control Specialist for BSD                            180,000                 180,000
Payments Sys. (Vision & Conc. Dsgn)       250,000                                      250,000
Payments Sys. (Legal and Reg. Framework)   100,000                                     100,000
Payments Sys. (Arch. and Techn. Design)   500,000                                      500,000
Credit Info. Bureau Management Contract    193,000                                     193,000
Insurance Department Advisor              150,000                                      150,000
NIC Privatization Study                   250,000                                      250,000
Pensions Advisor                           100,000                                     100,000
CMSA CEO /3                                                               132,000      132,000
CMSA Collective Investment Study                                85,000                  85,000
CMSA Public Education                      193,000                                     193,000
CMSA Regional Cap. Markets                218,000                                      218,000
PTF Management Team                       800,000                                      800,000
Project Audit                                         60,000                            60,000
Project Accountant (part time)                                  50,000                  50,000
MIS Procurement Expert                                          30,000                  50,000
Credit Info. Bureau Feasibility Study /4  200,000                                      200,000
Total                                   11,951,845    60,000   766,000    372,000   13,149,845
/1 PPF financed
/2 Partially PPF financed
/3 Recruited as an Individual Consultant under FIDP. The Government proposes a two year extension of contract as
a result of excellent performance under FIDP.
/4 Retroactive Financing. This component was included under FIDP for IDA funding but funding was advanced by
BOT due to lack of funds under the credit.
Note:
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
CQ    =  Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Single Source Selection



Page 56
Annex 6, Table C:
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value       Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)           Method           Prior Review /
Estimated Total
Value Subject to
Prior Review
US $                                (US $ millions)
1. Goods            100,000            ICB                  All
50 - 100,000       NCB                  All
<50,000             ISINS               Post-review
2. Consultants      200,000 or more     QCBS (International  All
_Advert)
>100,000 - 200,000   QCBS (International  All
Shortlist)
50,000 - 100,000    QCBS (National      All
Advert)
<50,000             CQ                  All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:           12.63



Page 57
Annex 6, Table D:
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Category                               Amount of Credit   % of Expenditures to
Allocated          be Financed
(UiS$)
1. Equipment, vehicles and computers:      5,481,500     100% of foreign and
75% of local
(a) under Part A.2 of the Project        5,141,500
(b) other than under Part A-2 of the Project  340,000
2. Consultants' Services:                 10,990,198     100% of expenditures
(a) under Part A.2 of the Project       7,139,198
(b) under Part A.3 (b) of the Project   500,000
(c) under Part D of the Project         393,000
(d) other than under Parts A.2, A.3 (b)  2,958,000
and D of the Project
3. Training:                               3,222,799     100% of foreign and
50% of local
(a) under Part A2 of the Project        1,751,600
(b) other than under Part A.2 of the    1,471,199
Project
4. Severance Payments under Part A.2 (c)   1,600,000     100% of expenditures
of the Project
5. Incremental Operating Costs              160,000      90% of expenditures
6. Refunding of PPF                        2,000,000
7. Unallocated                             4,000,000
TOTAL                                     27A454.497



Page 58
Disbursement
Accounting and Auditing
12.  The BOT will maintain accounting records of the Project components that they manage
directly. The existing accounting and financial management system, reviewed by the Bank's
Financial Management Specialist, will be used and improved upon during the first year of the
Project to prepare for LCI. In addition to their financial statements, BOT agreed to submit a
quarterly report, one month after the end of each quarter, presenting a summnary of sources and
uses of funds, procurement/contracts schedule and statement and summary of expenditures by
component and by category.
13.  After the end of the fiscal year, but no longer than six months after its completion, the
Govermment will present Audit Reports of the Special Account with the special opinion on the
use of the Special account and the statement of expenses (SOEs).
14.  Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). Disbursements for all expenditures would be
against full documentation except for contracts below the equivalent of US$ 100,000 equivalent
each for works , goods and consulting firms and US$ 50,000 for consultant services (individuals),
training and incremental operating costs for which disbursements would be based on Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the borrower
for review by IDA missions and extemal auditors. All expenditures above the threshold indicated
above will be eligible for direct payment.
15.  Special Accounts. The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table D. The IDA
Credit will be disbursed over a period of 4 years (from 1999-2003), with a closing date of June
30, 2003. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Table E below. All applications to
withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented for all contracts subject to review by
IDA (contracts valued for civil works not less than US$100,000, for goods not less than
US$100,000 and for consultant services not less than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals).
16.  To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be established and operated at BOT
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon credit effectiveness, a sum of US$200,000
to cover about four months' expenditures would be deposited by IDA into this account. Further
deposits by IDA would be made into this account against withdrawal applications supported by
appropriate documents. The Borrower will be required to replenish the special account on a
monthly basis or more often when the total disbursed amounts to one third of the initial deposit,
whichever is soonest. Disbursement categories and the percentage financed are shown in Table D
above.



Page 59
Annex 6, Table E: Projected Disbursements of Credit Proceeds
(US$ million)
Category                      1999       2000        2001       2002       2003        Total
Consultants'Services          3.02       5.70        3.81        2.34       2.28       17.15
Goods and Services            0.15       0.73        3.61        1.00       0.00        5.49
Training                      0.10       0.69        0.85       0.85        0.73       3.22
Employees Bridge              0.00       0.80        0.80        0.00       0.00        1.60
Compensation
Total                         3.26       7.92        9.07       4.19        3.01      27.45



Appendix 6A
Second Financial Institutions Project
Prebim. Procurement Plan
------------------ ---------------------- -------------------- --------------- Proposed Process dates -----    ----------------- ------------------- -
Description                               Selection  Contract       ----------- RFPs/Bidding Documents---------
Method   Value (US$) Prepared  No            Issued/    Proposal   Tech.  No            Final Prop.  No       Negotiatio No        Contract
Objection   Pubi.      Receipt    Prop.  Objection       Eval.    Objection  ns        Objection Signing
Eva].
Consultants'Services                                    13,149,845
NBC Accounting Support /I                    QCBS         2674,647
NBC Investment Adviser/I                      SS           240,000
PSRC Local Consultants                        CQ           221,000
NBC Legal Advisers/I                         QCBS          615,000
NMB Management Team  2/                      QCBS        4,592,198
NMB Deposit Mobilization                     QCBS          380,000   10/29/99    11/12/99   11/19/99    1/5/00   1/17/00,    1/21/00     1/28/00    2/2/00    2/23/00    3/1/00    3/4/00
NMB Investment Adviser                       QCBS          890,000    9/30/99     10/6/99   10/11/99   11/26/99  12/17/99    12/22/99     1/3/00    1/7/00    1/18/00    1/25/00   1/28/00
NMB Legal Advisers                           QCBS          500,000    9/30/99     10/6/99   10/11/99   11/26/99  12/17/99    12/22/99     1/3/00    1/7/00    1/18/00    1/25/00   1/28/00
NMB Auditor/Accounting                       QCBS          300,000    9/30/99     10/6/99   10/11/99   11/26/99  12/17/99    12/22/99     1/3/00    1/7/00    1/11/00    1/25/00   1/28/00
NMB Training- Consultants                    QCBS          826,000    9/30/99    10/11/99   10/18/99    12/3/99  12/10/99    12/16/99   12/20/99   12/23/99    1/17/00    1/22/00   1/24/00       -a
Microfinance Adviser to BOT                   SS           200,000       NA          NA        NA         NA        NA         NA           NA         NA        NA         NA       NA          a
PBZ Restr. And Priv. Study                  QCBS           200,000    10/5/99     10/8/99   10/12/99   11/29/99    1/5/00   1/10/00      1/17/00    1/20/00    1/27/00   2/3/00    2/9/00         at
TIB Restr. and Priv. Study                   QCBS          150,000    10/5/99     10/8/99   10/12/99   11/29/99    1/5/00   1/10/00      1/17/00    1/20/00    1/27/00   2/3/00    2/9/00
TPB Restr. And Priv. Study                   QCBS          150,000    10/5/99     10/8/99   10/12/99   11/27/99    1/5/00   1/10/00      1/17/00    1/20/00    1/27/00   2/3/00    2/9/00
Internal Control Specialist for BSD           CQ           180,000    9/30/99     10/6/99   10/11/99   11/26/99  12/17/99    12/22/99     1/3/00    1/7/00    1/14/00    1/19/00   1/25/00
Payments Sys. (Vision & Conc. Dsgn)         QCBS           250,000    10/5/99    10/11/99   10/15/99   11/30/99  12/20/99    12/23/99    1/14/00    1/19/00    1/28/00   2/7/00   2/11/00
Payments Sys. (Legal and Reg. Framework)    QCBS           100,000    10/5/99    10/11/99   10/15/99   11/30/99  12/20/99    12/23/99    1/14/00    1/19/00    1/28/00   2/7/00   2/11/00
Payments Sys (Arch. And Techn. Design)      QCBS           500,000   10/29/99    11/12/99   11/19/99    1/5/00   1/12/00    1/19/00   1/24/00     1/28/00     2/23/00    3/1/00    3/4/00
Credit Info, Bureau Management Contract     QCBS           193,000   10/15/99    10/20/99   10/25/99    12/3/99  12/21/99    12/23/99    N.A.      N.A.        1/5/00    1/10/00   1/13/00
Insurance Department Advisor                  CQ           150,000    9/30/99     10/6/99   10/11/99   11/26/99  12/14/99    12/17/99    N.A.     N.A.         1/6/00    1/11/00   1/14/00
NIC Privatization Study                     ICBS           250,000   10/15/99    10/20/99   10/26/99    12/8/99  12/28/99    1/4/00    N.A.        N.A.       1/12/00    1/18/00   1/24/00
Pensions Advisor                              CQ           100,000   10/29/99     11/5/99   11/11/99   12/29/99    1/7/00   1/12/00    N.A.       N.A.        1/24/00    1/28/00    2/4/00
CMSA CEO /3                                   SS           132,000   N.A.       N.A.        N.A.      N.A.      N.A.       N.A.        N.A.        N.A.      N.A.       N.A.      N.A.
CMSA Collective Investment Studv              CQ            85,000    9/30/99     10/6/99   10/11/99   11/26/99  12/13/99    12/17/99   12/30/99    1/7/00    1/18/00    1/21/00   1/26/00
CMSAPublicEducation                         QCBS           193,000    11/8/99    11/12/99   11/18/99    1/6/00   1/20/00    1/25/00    N.A.        N.A.        2/4/00    2/10/00   2/17/00
CMISA Regional Cap. Markets                 QCBS           218,000    11/8/99    11/12/99   11/18/99    1/6/00   1/20/00    1/25/00    NA.        N.A.         2/4/00    2/10/00   2/17/00
PT Management Team                          QCBS           800,000   10/15/99    10/20/99   10/26/99    12/8/99  12/30/99    1/7/00      1/28/00    2/4/00    2/15/00    2/21/00   2/25/00
Project Audit                                LCS            60,000                                            Appoint prior to credit's effectiveness
Project Accountant                            CQ            50,000
MIS Procurement Expert                        CQ            50,000
Credit Info. Bureau Feasibility Study /4    QCBS           200,000



Page 61
Goods and Services                                       5,481,500
NMBMISlImprovement                           ICB         5,000,000    9/30/99    10/11/99   10/31/99   12/15/99   N.A.   N.A.          1/31/00    2/15/00   N.A.      N.A.      3/1/00
NBCMarketTest.'1 /6                          N.A.        141,5000
CMSA Equipment (computers and software)     ICB           300,000    9/30/99    10/11/99   10/31/99   12/15/99   N.A.        NA.       1/31/00    2/15/00     N.A.       N.A.   3/1/00
CMSA Office Equipment                       IS/NS          40,000      N.A.        N.A.      N.A.       N.A.    N.A.        N.A.         N.A.       N.A.      N.A.       N.A.    N.A.
Training                                                3,222,799
NMB Training - External /5                  QCBS          260,000
NMB Training- Local                         QCBS         1,491,600    9/30/99    10/11/99   10/18/99    12/3/99  12/10/99    12/16/99  12/20/99   12/23/99    1/17/00    1/22/00   1/24/00
Bank Supervision                            QCBS          971,199    9/30/99    10/11/99   10/21/99    12/8/99  12/30/99  1/19/00    N.A.        N.A.       1/28/00    2/4/00   2/11/00
Payments Systems                            QCBS          100,000    10/5/99     10/8/99   10/14/99    12/1/99  12/22/99    12/30/99   1/11/00    1/14/00    1/25/00    1/28/00    2/4/00
Insurance Training                          QCBS          100,000    9/30/99    10/11/99   10/18/99    12/3/99  12/10/99    12/16/99  12/20/99   12/23/99    1/17/00    1/22/00   1/24/00
CMSA Training                               QCBS          100,000   10/29/99    11/12/99   11/19/99    1/5/00   1/14/00   1/19/00    N.A.        N.A.       1/31/00    2/7/00   2/11/00
Total                                                21.854.144
1/ Funded under the PPF
2/ Estimated contract value is $4.6 million which includes $0.74 million financed under the PPF.
3/ Recruited as an Individual Consultant under FIDP. The Government proposes atwo year extension of contract as a result of excellent performance under FDP.
4/ Retroactive Financing. This component was included unider FIDP for IDA funding but funding was advanced by BOT due to lack of funds under the credit.
5/ Attendance of 26 senior managers (over four years) in microfinance training programs.
6/ Market test are costs are for travel and advertising associated with the privatization of NBC



Page 62
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Tanzania: Second Financial Institutions Development Project
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
83.8                96.8
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        11
First Bank mission (identification)           01/05/1998           09/18/1998
Appraisal mission departure                   04/09/1999           05/29/1999
Negotiations                                  04/12/1999           07/10/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 08/30/1999            10/15/1999
Prepared by: Bank Supervision Directorate, Bank of Tanzania
Preparation assistance: PPF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
1. Gerard Byamn                          Sector Manager
2. Paul Murgatroyd                       Lead Specialist
3. Antony Thompson                       Financial Sector Specialist/Team Leader
4. Rakesh Nangia                         Senior Operations Officer
5. John P. Byamukama                     Economist
6. Mercy Sabai                           Financial Management Specialist
7. Irene Chacon                          Program Assistant
8. Fannie Goll                           Task Team Assistant



Page 63
Annex 8: Documents in the Proiect File*
Tanzania: Second Financial Institutions Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank StaffAssessments
C. Other
(i) NMB and NBC (1997) Investment Memoranda
(ii) NMB and NBC (1997) MOU Compliance Reports
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference Betwieen
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                  and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borroxwer                           Purpose
IBPR.      IDA       Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
llumber of Closed Projects: 97
Active Projects
TZ-PE-2784       1990   GOVT                              PORTS WDEEP111ZATIO11                     0.00       37.00         0.00         8.05        4.12         0.00      S           S
TZ-PE-2786       1991   GOVT                              PETROL REHAB                              0.00       44.00         0.00        14.77       12.60       12.29       S          S
TZ-PE-2757       1991   GOVT.                             PAILWAYS RESTRUCTURI                      0.00       76.00        I0.97        18.33       25.43       -1.80       5           5
T-PE-2817        1993                                     FIlIl.  LEGAL MGT PROJ                    0.00       20.00          .68         3.87        4.07         2.58      S           S
T>-PE-2788       1993   GOVT OF TAIIZANIIA                PRIV. PUB. SECT. MlGT                     0.00       34 .90        0r.00        2.73          .66        0.00      S           5
TZ-PE-2780       1993   GDVT.OF TAIIZANIlA                TELECOM11 II                              0.00       74.45         0.00        15.57       16.15       16.07       S           S
T:-PE-2756       1993   MIIIISTRY OF EIIERGY              POWER VI                                  0.00      200.00          . 00       37.48       15.32         0.00      5           S
TZ-PE-2801       1994   GOT                               ASMP                                      0.00       24.50         2.48         5.87        5.70         0.00      S           S
T:-PE-2770       1994   GOVERIIIMEIIT                     ROADS II                                  0.00      170.20         0.Q0       146.15      142.95        0.00       5           S
T--PE-2812       1995                                     MIIIERAL SECTOP DEV.                      0.00       12.50         0.00         2.97        1.41        0.00       S          5
TZ-PE-2758       1996   GOVT                              URBAII SECTOR REHAB                       0.00      105.00         0.00        76.50       16.21         0.00      S          S
TZ-PE-46837      1997   GDVT OF TAIIZANIIA                LAKE VICTORIA EIIV.                       0.00       10.10         0.00         6.98        1.57        0.00       S          S          3
TZ-PE-38570      1997   GOVERIIMEIIT                      RIVER BASIlt MGM.SMAL                     0.00       26.30         0.00        17.41        4.39        0.00       S          S
TZ-PE-2821       1997                                     SAC I                                     0.00      131.50         0.00        24.15       24.98       27.46       S          S
TZ-PE-2753       1997   GOVT                             I4AT EXT PROJ PH.II                        0.00       31.10         0.00        18.82        7.42        0.00       S          U
TZ-PE-2804      1998   GDVT                               AGRIC RESEARCH                            0.00       21.80         0.00        18.94          .63       0.00       5          5
TZ-PE-2789      1998   GOVT                               HUMAN RESOURCE DEV 1                      0.00       20.90         0.00        14.68        1.50        0.00       S          S
TZ-PE-47761      1999                                     TAX ADMlINISTRATIONI                      0.00       40.00         0.00        38.27        0.00        0.00
Total                                                                                               0.00   1,080.25         14.13       471.54      205.71       56.60
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  586.61            2,391.59            2,978.20
of which has been repaid:                     .o00             481.47              481.47
Total nov: held by IBRD and IDA:               1,066.11            1,881.97            2,948.08
Amount sold                                        0.0 0o               6.29                6.29
Af which repaid                                 0. O                6.29                6.29
Total Undisbursed                :               471.54               43.f6               515.40
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Follow/ing the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system w/as introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Ilote:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Genertmed by the Operations Infonnation System (OIS)



Page 65
Tanzania
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-May-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1989                  TASCO                   .88    0.00    0.00    0.00      .88    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Mufindi Tea              .43    0.00    0.00    0.00     .43    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/97               TPS Zanzibar            1.08     .19    .10    0.00    1.08      .19     .10    0.00
1993                  TPS (Tanzania)          7.00     .87    1.04    0.00    7.00     .87    1.04    0.00
1993/96               AEF Tanganyika          .25    0.00    0.00    0.00      .25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Moshi Lthr          0.00     .25    0.00    0.00    0.00     .19    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Nomnad Safari       .06    0.00    0.00    0.00      .06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Raffia Bags         .36    0.00    0.00    0.00      .36    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  Eurafrican Bank         0.00     .73    0.00    0.00    0.00     .73    0.00    0.00
1994                  Tanzania Brewery        0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  ULC Leasing             1.88     .95    0.00    0.00    1.88     .76    0.00    0.00
1995                  AEF MIC Tanzania        .40    0.00    0.00    0.00      .40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  AEF Tanbreed            .70    0.00    0.00    0.00      .70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF A&K Tanzania        .08    0.00    0.00    0.00      .08    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Contiflora          .39    0.00    0.00    0.00      .39    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Milcafe             .21    0.00    0.00    0.00      .21    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Zainab Grain        .80    0.00    0.00    0.00      .80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  IHP                     1.53     .60    0.00    0.00    1.53     .60    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF Aquva Ginner        .68    0.00    0.00    0.00      .68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF Hort. Farms          .70    0.00    0.00    0.00     .70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  DATEL                   2.25     .51    0.00    0.00    1.35     .48    0.00    0.00
1997/99               AEF Pallsons            .78    0.00    0.00    0.00      .78    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  AEF Blue Bay            1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  AEF Drop Zanziba         .36    0.00    0.00    0.00     .36    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  AEF Maji Masafi         1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Tanzania Jubilee        0.00     .29    0.00    0.00    0.00     .29    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  23.32   10.39    1.14    0.00   20.92   10.11    1.14    0.00
Approvals Pending Commnitment
Loan   Equitv  Quasi  Partic
1999                  AEF ARUSHA              1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  AEF MOUN                 .90    0.00    0.00    0.00
VILLAGE
1998                  AEF NEPTtJNE FLWR        .40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  TTCL                    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitnent:          2.80   20.00    0.00    0.00
(ieterated by the Operations Infonnationi System (OIS) on 8/2/99



Page 86
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Tanzania at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Tanzania    Africa  Income       Development dlamond'
1 997
Population, mid-year (millions)                      31.3      614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Affas meihod, USS)                   210       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      6.6      309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (X)                                        2.9       2.7       2.1
Labor force (X)                                       2.9       2.6       2.3     GNP               Sk           Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 19S147)                              pita                        enroliment
Poverty (% otpopulation below natfonal povrty lMne)   51
Urban population (% of total populatfon)              24        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      51        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIe births)               82        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            28                  61               Access to safe wvater
Access to safe water (% of population)                49        44        71
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                   32        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoolage populaton)    70        75        91                  Tanzania
Male                                                71        82       100                  Low-incore group
Female                                              69        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996     1997
GDP (US$ billions)                            ,,      7.5       5.9       6.7     Economic ratloe
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                        22.0      18.0      19.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ,      7.8      21.5     23.2                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            9.9       3.4      12.6
Gross national savings/GDP                           15.9       1.9       7.1
Current account balance/GDP                          -3.5     -16.1    -12.6      Domestic                    n
Interest payments/GDP                                 0.5       1.7       1.5                                Investment
Total debUGDP                                        61.3     126.7               Savings
Total debt service/exports                   6.4    36.7       22.1
Present value of debt/GDP                                      41.9
Present value of debtlexports                                 210.0
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          2.9      4.1       3.9       5.5                  Tanzania
GNP per capita                               1.3      1.7       1.3       2.5                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services               13.5    14.2       18.8       6.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1906     1997      Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
(% Of GDP)
Agriculture                                          58.4      47.6      47.6    30
Industry                                              9.5      13.9      14.3     2
Manufacturing                                       6.1       7.3       7.3    10        
Services                                             32.1      38.5      38.0
-1    - 92
Private consumption                                  75.1      83.4      77.5   -20
General govemment consumption                 .      15.0      13.2       9.9                    GDI       0GDP
Imports of goods and services                        19.9      36.2      30.1    _
19764t6  1987-97     1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual groDwth)
Agriculture                                           3.4       4.8       3.9    30
Industry                                              2.4       2.5       3      29  0
Manufacturing                               z.
Services                                              2A        3.2       3.9   1i
Private consumption                                   3.0       4.4               o<
General govemment consumption                        -1.3     -12.2        ..           92   93   94   95   Oa   97
Gross domestic investment                            -0.7      -9.1       0.0   -10
Imports of goods and services                         2.4      -11       -0.7              -Exports   --Imports
Gross national product                                4.4       4.6       4.2   I
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (On bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond vwill
be incomplete.



Page 67
Tanzania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prIces                              1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         40
Consumer prices                               6.9     32.4       25.7      17.1    60
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..       ..       22.6      16.4    20
(% of GDP, Includes cunaent grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                 ..    14.9       13.2      13.9            92   93    94   95   98   97
Current budget balance                         ..      4.3       -0.8       1.1               -GDP deflator  4 S  CPI
Overall surplus/Wdeit                           .      -5.9      -4.3      -1.6    _
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    317          726      768      1,OO
Coffee                                        ..    152         139       136
Cotton                                        ,,      30        123       125      Soo
Manufactures                                  o. ..               ..       ..      800
Total imports (cil)                             ..       ..        ..        ..      400 
Food
Fuel and energy                                                                    200. .0
Capital goods                                 .         ...                 ..       0
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..                                             92  93 ..
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..        ..        ..                U Exports    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                ..                  ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 626      426      1,139     1,272      0
Imports of goods and services                 697    1,105      1.986     2,040
Resource balance                              -71    -68         -847     -768
Net income                                    -18    -105        -115     -100
Net current transfers                          55       ..        20        26
Current account balance                       -34     -265       -942     -842    -20
Financing items (net)                          56      268      1,023     1,114
Changes in net reserves                       -22       -4        -81     -272    -30
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..       ..       240       461
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS,)                .    18.6      580.0    612 1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1996 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,380    4,609      7,412
IBRD                                         90      291        56        34                        A S5
IDA                                         109      670      2,242    2,306               G 1,05
Total debt service                             41      156        258                                               2,242
IBRD                                          7       47        33        24          F: 409
IDA                                           2        8        31        32
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             119      483       441
Official creditors                          128      168         81                                              c:206
Private creditors                            28       69         -7
Foreign direct investment                     0       -8       150                      E | : 2,837   D         oe|
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  89      185       173       150     A - IBRD                      E Bilateral
Disbursements                                39       92       134       183     B-IDA      D.Othermultilateral   F-Prvate
Principal repayments                          2       29        40        36     C-IMF                         G - Short-term
Net flows                                    38       63        94       147        _    .                                 8
Interest payments                             7       26        23        20
Net transfers                                31       38        71       127
Development Economics






sr   UG4ItA)   .                             St                     36'                                          4
Lake  Vk tDria 
t]BURUNDI/0tt$j<                                                             ru  
4' \9   /  WOMAX   ^. X           ke                               4               \>g ; t;Jfnyanga  k
,~~~~~~ ukb, 1us
7hePA  MAnyorat                                                                         i                A
A                                                  ¾.~OM
UC~~~~~~~
r °~~~~~~~~~~Tbounra                     3        s Singiudl AZNI ;l
:>  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          J&§8Uhu0SIG
0                          0         loo      200                              . _9                                                          1-3
r,>-            3F                     F                                           362-   > S       -   R
01000000 Lake
32'                                                        32'  % %fl~~'                OZARuIwU
-o                                                                                        32'~~~~~~~~~~~~~iVBY
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0CA



