Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3279 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Financial Institutions Development Project)
between
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 26, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3279 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 26 1999, between THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated July 26, 1999 
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to strengthen the Borrower’s financial sector and, in 
particular, to increase the efficiency of delivery of services in such 
sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“BOT” means the Bank of Tanzania, which is the Central Bank 
of the Borrower, established pursuant to the Borrower's Bank of Tanzania 
Act of 1995;
(b)
“BSD” means the Bank Supervision Directorate of BOT;
(c)
“CMSA” means the Capital Markets and Securities Authority, 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Capital Markets and Securities 
Act, Number 5 of 1994;
(d)
“Government Securities” means bonds, notes, certificates of 
indebtedness and other negotiable or transferable instruments evidencing 
the public debt of the Borrower;
(e)
“Implementing Agency” means BOT or the Ministries of Finance 
or PSRC or the Insurance Department or CMSA (all as herein defined); and 
“Implementing Agencies” means such entities, collectively;
(f)
“Insurance Department” means the department established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Insurance Act, Number 18 of 1996 to regulate 
the insurance industry in the territories of the Borrower;
(g)
“Ministries of Finance” means the Ministry of Finance of the 
Government of Zanzibar, part of the Borrower’s territory, and the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, collectively;
(h)
“NBC 1997” means the National Bank of Commerce (1997) 
Limited established pursuant to the Borrower’s National Bank of Commerce 
(1997) Limited Incorporation Act, Number 21 of 1997;
(i)
“NBC97 MOU” means the memorandum of understanding entered 
into between the Borrower and NBC 1997 (as hereinafter defined) setting 
out agreed actions and targets to be followed or reached by NBC 1997 
prior to privatization;
(j)
“NMB” means the National Microfinance Bank established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s National Microfinance Bank Limited 
Incorporation Act, Number 22 of 1997;
(k)
“NMB MOU” means the memorandum of understanding entered into 
between the Borrower and NMB setting out agreed actions and targets to be 
followed or reached by NMB prior to privatization;
Page  3
(l)
“PBZ” means the People’s Bank of Zanzibar incorporated in 
1966 under Companies Decree, Chapter 153 of the Laws of Zanzibar;
(m)
“Privatization Trust” means the trust established pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Privatization Trust Act, Number 7 of 1999 and to which 
the Borrower has transferred or will transfer retained shares of the 
Restructuring Banks (as hereinafter defined), with a view to the 
distribution of said shares to nationals of Tanzania through collective 
instruments and/or the stock exchange;
(n)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(o)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan referred to in 
paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(q)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter 
from the Association, dated September 9, 1998 and countersigned by the 
Borrower on September 15, 1998;
(r)
“PSRC” means the Borrower’s Presidential Parastatal Sector 
Reform Commission established pursuant to the Borrower's Public 
Corporations Act of 1992;
(s)
“Restructuring Bank” means NBC 1997 or NMB or PBZ or TIB or 
TPB (all as herein defined) and “Restructuring Banks” means such banks, 
collectively;
(t)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(u)
“Tanzania Shilling” or “Tsh” means the currency of the 
Borrower;
(v)
“Tanzania” means the territory of the Borrower;
(w)
“TIB” means the Tanzania Investment Bank, established 
pursuant to the Tanzania Investment Bank Act, Number 20 of 1970; and
(x)
“TPB” means the Tanzania Postal Bank established pursuant to 
the Tanzania Postal Bank Act, Number 11 of 1991.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
Page  4
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BOT on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 
2009 and ending April 1, 2039. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
Page  5
them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not 
yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the 
Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date, referred to in paragraph (a) 
above, 
falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 2.09. BOT is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the Implementing 
Agencies as set out in Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial sector and capital market practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the 
Page  6
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or 
Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
Page  7
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure or Project Management 
Reports submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan, acceptable to the Association, for the strengthening of its 
financial management system for the Project, in order to enable the 
Borrower, not later than July 31, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, commencing in 1999 and until 
completion of the Project:
(a)
furnish to the Association not later than six months after 
the end of the respective fiscal year of each of the Restructuring Banks, 
the annual financial accounts of such Restructuring Bank, audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
prior to furnishing each of the said accounts, ensure that: 
(i) any adjustments in the accounts requested by the said auditors shall 
Page  8
be made by each Restructuring Bank; and (ii) any loan of any 
Restructuring Bank classified as a loss in accordance with the BOT 
directives shall be written off.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, that is that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower has furnished to the Association the Project 
Implementation Plan, except for the details referred to in paragraph A.1 
(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the Association has found such  
Project Implementation Plan to be acceptable.
(b)
The Borrower has: (i) entered into a management contract 
with a management team chosen in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement to operate NMB; (ii) completed 
any remedial action plans, acceptable to the Association, required to 
enforce compliance with the MOUs; and (iii) furnished to the Association 
a timetable acceptable to the Association for the privatization of NMB.
(c)
The Borrower has established a financial management system 
for the Project, including accounting procedures, satisfactory to the 
Association and adequate to ensure proper monitoring of Project 
activities.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, 
the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Page  9
Cable address: 
Telex:
TREASURY
41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Daniel N. Yona
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment, vehicles
100% of foreign 
expenditures
and computers:
and 75% of local 
Page  10
expenditures
(a)
under Part A.2 of
   3,900,000
the Project
(b)
other than under
     260,000
Part A.2 of the
Project
(2)
Consultants' services:
100%
(a)
under Part A.2 of
   5,400,000
the  Project
(b)
under Part A.3 (b)
     380,000
of the Project
(c)
under Part D of 
     300,000
the Project
(d)
other than under
   2,250,000
Parts A.2, A.3 (b)
and D of the Project
(3)
Training:
100%
(a)
under Part A.2 of
   1,300,000
the Project
(b)
other than under
   1,100,000
Part A.2 of the
Project
(4)
Severance payments under
   1,200,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed by
Part A.2 (c) of the
NMB
Project
(5)
Incremental operating
     120,000
90%
costs
(6)
Refunding of
   1,550,000
Amounts due pursuant to
Project Preparation
Section 2.02 (c) of this
Advance
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   2,840,000
            TOTAL
  20,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the terms “Severance Payments” means payments made or to be 
made to an NMB employee who has been separated from NMB under Part A. 1 
(c) of the Project; and
(d)
the term “Incremental operating costs” means the incremental 
Page  11
costs incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and 
supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service and of audit of Project accounts.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of SDR 421,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1), 
(2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after July 13, 1999; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2) 
(a), (3) (a) and (4), unless and until the Association has received the 
details of the Project Implementation Plan referred to in paragraph A.1 
(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and found such details to be 
satisfactory; 
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category 4 for 
Severance Payments, unless the corresponding application for withdrawal 
of Credit proceeds contains a certification by an independent auditor, 
acceptable to the Association, that such Severance Payments were made in 
accordance with the staff retrenchment program described in the business 
plan referred to in paragraph A.1 (b) (i) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Category (2) (b) until 
an agreement has been reached between the Borrower and the Association on 
the actions to be taken following the review described under Part A.3 (a) 
of the Project; and
(e)
payments made for expenditures under Category (2) (c) until 
the Credit Reference Bureau has been established with majority private 
sector shareholding in a manner acceptable to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for 
goods and consultant firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each and under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each for individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Borrower’s 
financial sector and increase the efficiency of service delivery in such 
sector through (i) facilitating the privatization of state owned banks; 
(ii) strengthening the supporting financial infrastructure including 
banking, insurance and pension regulation and supervision; (iii) 
strengthening the national payments and credit system; and (iv) 
implementing a strategy for the development of capital markets.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  12
Part A:
Bank Restructuring and Privatization
1.
Preparation of a detailed business plan and privatization strategy 
for NMB. 
2.
Implementing the business plan and privatization strategy for NMB, 
including preparing NMB for privatization by increasing productivity of 
its staff and strengthening its capacity to engage in micro-finance 
lending through: 
(a)
installation of computerized business operations and 
management information systems; 
(b)
carrying out a program designed to facilitate the 
retrenchment of NMB staff in order to reduce such staff; such program 
consisting of: (i) establishment of appropriate incentive schemes for 
early retirement and voluntary separation; (ii) provision of severance 
payments for remaining redundant staff; (iii) retraining programs based 
on regional employment opportunities; and (iv) job searching and 
outplacement assistance;
(c)
carrying out a comprehensive training program for staff of 
NMB not subject to the program described under the preceding paragraph; 
and
(d)
carrying out a pilot program to strengthen the capacity of 
NMB to develop and market micro finance lending instruments.
3.
(a)
Carrying out a review of the options for restructuring and 
privatizing TPB, TIB and PBZ; and 
(b)
thereafter, carrying out the recommendations thereof.
Part B:
Banking Supervision
1.
Strengthening the capacity of BOT to supervise banks through 
provision of training to staff of its Directorate of Bank Supervision in 
the areas of supervision of problem institutions, on-site examinations 
and methodology development.
Part C:
Payments System
Design of a modern and efficient national payments and clearing 
system including:
1.
Development of a comprehensive vision and conceptual design of new 
payment mechanisms, based on an assessment of the current system and user 
requirements; and
2.
Preparation of detailed technical specifications for the national 
inter-bank payments and clearing system to be designed and of a time 
based implementation plan.
Part D:
Credit Reference Bureau
Establishment and management of a credit reference bureau.
Part E:
Capital Markets and Securities Authority
Page  13
1.
Establishment of the institutional framework for the working of a 
viable capital market in Tanzania including preparation of appropriate 
regulations.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of CMSA to regulate the capital market 
in Tanzania.
3.
Training of dealers and potential stockbrokers.
4.
Carrying out a publicity and educational program for the general 
public, including nationwide dissemination of information.
5.
Completion of selected public issues of securities, including 
design of distribution procedures, determination of offer prices and 
allotment procedures.
Part F:
Insurance
1.
Strengthening the Insurance Department’s capacity to regulate the 
insurance industry through assisting it to develop a supervisory 
methodology and policy framework, including drafting of regulatory 
guidelines and of supporting accounting principles and standards to be 
adopted by the insurance industry.
2.
Carrying out a study to assess the feasibility of combining the 
regulation of insurance with that of pensions under one regulatory body.
3.
Carrying out a study to assess the options for restructuring and 
privatizing the National Insurance Corporation.
Part G:
Privatization Trust
Establishment and management of operations of the Privatization 
Trust.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  14
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
which are readily available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines, provided that if such goods are not available locally, they 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Equipment procured within the first six months after the Effective 
Date and which cannot be packaged for competitive tenders, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured from 
the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization of the United Nations 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  15
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for services for 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications.
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits of Project accounts estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
Page  16
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but 
less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:
Implementation Plan and Work Programs
1.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Plan, satisfactory to the Association, containing a 
statement of objectives and a general description of the Project and the 
following details:
(a)
with respect to each Part of the Project except Parts A.1 
and A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association: 
(i) an implementation schedule, including a financing plan, covering the 
four-year period from 1999 to 2003; (ii) a detailed Project work program 
and budget for the first six months following the Effective Date for each 
Part of the Project except Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project; (iii) 
Page  17
details of procurement and disbursement arrangements including standard 
bidding documents (for goods and consultants’ services), and reporting 
requirements on financial management; (iv) monitoring and evaluation 
indicators; and (v) other administrative, financial and organizational 
arrangements, as the Association shall reasonably request; and
(b) 
as soon as practicable after the appointment of a management 
team for NMB pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association for the purposes of Part A.2 of the 
Project:  (i) a revised MOU, acceptable to the Association taking into 
account the business plan for NMB prepared by the new management team; 
(ii) a detailed business plan for NMB (including an implementation 
schedule for Part A.2 of the Project) and a corresponding financing plan 
covering the four-year period from 1999 to 2003 which shall be consistent 
with the time-bound action plan for privatization referred to in Section 
6.01 (b) of this Agreement and shall include a description of the staff 
retrenchment program to be carried out under Part A.2 (b) of the Project; 
(iii) a detailed Project work program and budget for 1999; (iv) details 
of all procurement and disbursement arrangements including standard 
bidding documents (for goods and consultants’ services), and reporting 
requirements on financial management; (v) monitoring and evaluation 
indicators; and (vi) other administrative, financial and organizational 
arrangements, as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.
The Borrower shall, by December 31 in each year commencing in 1999, 
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments a detailed annual 
work program and budget for the Project for the following calendar year 
based on the Project Implementation Plan.
3.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Plan and subsequent work programs and shall not 
amend or waive such Plan or work programs or any provision thereof, in a 
manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Part B:
Institutional Arrangements
1.
Part A.1 of the Project shall be implemented by NMB; Part A.2 of 
the Project shall be implemented by the Ministries of Finance; Parts B, C 
and D of the Project shall be implemented by BOT; Part E of the Project 
shall be implemented by CMSA; Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project shall be 
implemented by the Insurance Department; and Parts F.3 and G of the 
Project shall be implemented by PSRC. Each Implementing Agency shall be 
primarily responsible for the execution of project activities under its 
part of the Project and timely delivery of outputs as defined and agreed 
under the Project Implementation Plan and shall designate a counterpart 
to liaise with BSD.
2.
BSD shall coordinate the implementation of the Project and shall be 
responsible for: (a) procurement and disbursement arrangements including 
managing the Special Account and other project accounts; (b) overseeing 
and coordinating Project implementation activities by the Implementing 
Agencies and other relevant institutions of the Borrower; (c) following 
up on fulfillment of agreed financial and other covenants and provisions 
in this Agreement; and (d) furnishing to the Association periodic Project 
progress reports.
3.
For the purposes of their respective parts of the Project, the 
Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, CMSA, the Insurance 
Department and Privatization Trust, each with a management team and staff 
all having qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable 
to the Association.  
Page  18
4.
For the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower 
shall appoint, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and maintain until completion of the Project, banking advisers 
to assist the Ministries of Finance in supervising the restructuring of 
the Restructuring Banks and preparing privatization strategies for them.
Part C:
Mid Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and furnish to the Association on or about August 31, 2001, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association and in collaboration with the 
Implementing Agencies, by September 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association views on the matter.
Part D:
Particular Covenants
1.
The Borrower shall enforce compliance with each MOU, including 
executing the remedial action plans contained therein as required, in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to further the objectives of the Project, and shall not 
amend, abrogate, waive either MOU or any provision thereof without the 
prior approval of the Association and, except as provided for in the MOU 
for NMB, the Borrower shall not intervene in the management of NMB or in 
its lending policies.
2.
The Borrower shall pay, by the due date, all interest due on any 
Government Securities issued to recapitalize NMB and NBC 1997;
3.
The Borrower shall not directly or indirectly sponsor subsidized 
credit initiatives to businesses or individuals.
4.
For the purposes of Parts A.2 and B of the Project, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association, by December 31 in each year commencing 
in 1999, annual reports on the financial status of all banks and 
financial institutions operating in Tanzania, with time-bound action 
plans acceptable to the Association for solving problems identified in 
such reports.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Page  19
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), 
(3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $2,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,150,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
Page  20
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
Page  21
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
