Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8401
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 98611)
FEBRUARY 23,.1990
Africa Regional Office
Sahelian Department
Industry and Energy Operations Division
ThIb document has a restrict  dibid  and may be used by nIde  only In the pedornune of
"hir officld dute  ltb contens my not otherwise be dicosed wwoS Wodd Bank auoration.



FOR OFFICIAL  ONLY
TMH WOILD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OtS* of oIttVCdwil
February 23, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO TEE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Mali - Industrial
Development Pro3ect (Credit 986-MLI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
completion Report on Mali - Industrial Development Project (Credit
986-NLI)) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Yves Xwvani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorition.



FOR OMCILL USE ONLY
MALI
PROJl`T COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 986-MLI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ...........................................................i
Evaluation Summary ......................................................         i
PART Is  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE ......... ........                    1
A.    ProJect Identity .....................................  ......           1
B.  Background ......... . . ..........                                        1
C.   Project Objectives and Description ..                .................    2
D.   Project Design and Organization ......................                    3
E.   Project Implementation ......          ...........................        4
F.    Project Results ...         .........................                    5
G.   The Bank's Performance .............                .............         8
B.    The Borrower-Is Performance ...*   .......          ...........          9
I.    Consultant Services . .............................. ...                 9
J.    Conclusions and Lessons Learned .....            .................       9
PART IIs  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTVE ........                      11
Borrower's Perspective of the design and Implementation and
Its Development Impact on the Project
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION .......... *................                   46
Related Bank Credits . ................................... ..                 47
Schedule of Actual vs Estimated Cumulative Disbursements ..                  48
Subprojects Financed Under the Credit              .....................     49
Mission Data .......................................................          50
Staff Input .......................................................          SO
This document has a resrcted distrbution and may be used by reipients only in the performance
of their officil duties Its contents may not othewise be disclosed wWtout World Bank auhoization.



MALI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 986-MLI
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial
Development Project in Maii for which Credit 986-MLI in the amount of US$8
million was approved on February 26, 1980. The credit was closed on June
30, 1988, three years behind schedule, and the last disbursement was in
December 1988.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division of the Sahelian Department of the Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and by the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in January 1988, and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, supervision reports and other
documents relevant to the project.



- ii -
MALI
?ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 986-d6
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The project as originally conceived had two main objectives:
(a) to encourage private productive investment by improving the incentive
3ystem and by providing technical and financial assistance to private
entrepreneurs and artisansl and (b) to demonstrate that financial and
economic viability can be achieved for certain state enterprises when
efficient management is allowed to operate under commercial conditions.
(Para. 7)
With the benefit of hindsight, it seems that the degree of prepa-
redness and ability of the project institutions and of the Government to
adequately implement the project had been overestimated during project pre-
paration, particularly with regards to the line of credit. (Para. 10). The
lack of understanding of, and /or commitment to the project objectives on the
part of the project institutions and the opposition of the Ministry of Plan
to give assistance to the Banking system contributed to impede the project
implementation. Finally, the Government commitment to the project was also
insufficient to ensure appropriate project coordination. (Paras. 11-13)
on account of these shortcomings the project got off to a slow
start. Declared effective in September 1980, only the rehabilitation of ULBI's
equipment started immediately. Technical assistance to SERVULART became ope-
rational only in June 1982, the first subprojects were approved in September
1983, training of amall entrepreneurs started in Ncvember of 1985, and ULB
initiated a study of the expansion of its production capacity at the end of
that same year. The credit closing date was postponed three times and imple-
mentation ol the project lasted almost 8 years instead of the 4.5 years ori-
ginally planned. No changes were made to the project objectives, but another
component was added in 1987 so that funds could be used to fight a locust
invasion. Project proceeds were reallocated four times. (Para. 14)
Two unforeseen events contributed to hamper the implementation of
the two main components of the line of credit and the rehabilitation of ULB
rehabilitation. First, no measure had been included in the project to either
remedy BDM's financial situation which had been found critical during project
preparation, or prevent it from using the line of credit, as a result, BDM
became the only bank to finance subprojects with the proceeds of the line of
credit and its worsening financial situation and weak organization affected
the line of credit quality. A third of these subprojects do not perform
satisfactorily. Secondly, ULB began to face marketing problems as soon as its
production capacity increased following the renovation of its equipment, and
its expansion envisaged In the project became questionable. Moreover, con-
trarily to the assumption underlying this component, the Government did not
ensure that ULB would operate under strict commercial conditions, it started
to post huge losses and this contributed further to make its expansion unwar-
ranted. (Para. 16-17)



- iii -
This project was conceived more than 10 years ago. The lessons to
be drawn from its Implementation have since been learned from similar bank
projects in Africa. The scope of this particular project, designed as an
IDF-type project, was broadened to include training of entrepreneurs, assis-
tance to artisans and support to the rehablltation of a public enterprise.
Therefore, it was destined to have the merits and weaknesses attached to its
own design as well as those attached to a classical IDF project. (Para. 35)
For a first project its scope was far too broad to be carried out
efficiently by institutions and/or the Governument whose degree of prepared-
ness, strength and commitment to the project objectives was overestimated.
Furthermore, it is clear that the conceptual basis of the IPGP and the ULS
components was wrong. It is now well established that the sesistance to the
emergence of entrepreneurs involves much more than providing training in
management skills. With regard to the ULB component it is also clear now that
the rehabilitation of individual public enterprises cannot succeed if the
rationalization of the public enterprise sector as a whole is not undertaken.
These two components should have been excluded from the project as soon as
it appeared that they had little chance of succeeding. With regards to the
SERVULART experiment, it showed that it is possible to improve the effi-
ciency of artisans ani to create new jobs in the artisan sector as long as
they receive assistance to improve their production techniques and product
design without being brought into competition with the modern sector. It was
the most successful component of the project. (Paras. 36-38)
On the whole, the performance of the project was average as were
generally the IDF-type projects in the region.



tw1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMNPLETION REPORT
PART ONE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project name a Industrial Development Project.
Credit number X 986-MLI
RV  Unit      i Africa Regional Office
Sector        t Industrial and Aitisan Sectors
B.   8ACKGROUND
1.        Mali is a vast, landlocked, and resource-poor country located in
the Sahelian zone of Western Africa. Only about a quarter of its 1.2 million
square kilometers is arable.  Nea'rly 902 of the population estimated at 7.9
mllion in mid-1987, is dependent on the agricultural sector which accounts
for roughly 50S of GDP. Per capita income was estimated in 1986 at US$ 170
and social indicators, such as life expectancy and school enrollment rates,
were among the lowest in the world.
2.        The Industrial Sector.   In the early 1980s, the Malian industrial
sector was characterized by the dichotomy, typical to West Africa, of a small
modern sector made up of some 28 large public enterprises and numerous
medium- to small-scale private enterprises along side an active traditional
sector of more than 200,000 artisans. The large state-owned enterprises,
which accounted for two thirds of modern sector sales revenues, employed some
12,500 persons or almost 901 of the labor force of the sector.   Their
performance had, however, started to deterlorate and continued to decline,
and by 1985 most of them were virtually bankrupt. A significant number of
them ceased operations and, since 1988, the Government has, with IDA's
assistance, undertaken a project (the Public Sector Adjustment Program, Cr.
1937-MLI) to rationalize and liberalize the sector, reduce state
participation trough divestiture from the industrial and commercial
enterprises and liquidate those that are not viable.
3.        In 1979, project preparation had identified about 20 privately
owned enterprises operating in subsectors ranging from textiles to foundries
or bakeries.   Most of them were medium- or small-scale enterprises and,
notwithstanding the dynamism and entrepreneurship of their owners, their
performance w,s clouded by the lack of appropriate financing and assistance
to improve their technical and management skills.
4.        The Artisan Sector.  The activity of the artisan sector was based
on the communal nature of the Malian society and was providing considerable
benefits to the population. In this sector, which had shown vitality and
resilience, the utilitarian crafts (metal and woodworking, textile weaving
and spinning) were growing rapidly. A highly successful model, implemented
by the Malian cotton company, had set sn example in helping blacksmiths adapt



2
modern technical methods to the production of small agricultural implements.
Overall, however, its potential development was hampered by unavailability
of small credit, weak work organization and inefficient * and unadapted
production techniques.
5.        Sector Development Objectives.   At appraisal, several areas of
the industrial sector h.,d been identified as having potential for development
among ihich the processing of agricultural and livestock products, the
production of agricultural and mechanical tools and spare parts, metal
products and light chemicals. It seemed that the development of productive
capacities in these areas could increase linkages between the different
sectors of the Malian economy.   In the artisan sector, textiles and
decorative crafts vere thought to have good prospects for expanding
productivity and employment. However, the emphasis put on the demand for
financing and institutional support of the public sector had deprived the
non public sector investors of the ingredients required for the development
of the private sector. Therefore, the purpose of the Industrial Development
Project was to help Mali take full advantage of its private sector by
Improving the technical and financial assistance needed to develop it.
6.        Policy Context.   The  inadequacy of the investment code was
identified during project preparation as a policy issue. With the help of
a PPF-financed consultant, the Government had substantially modified the
code's provisions to make them more conducive to the establishment of
productive projects. As In most industrial sector development projects of
that period, no other major policy issue was addresseds the analysis of the
domineneo of the public esector was l4i tad to the d.privatozo of revource,w
that the private sector suffered and the banks' inability to finance private
investments was only attributed to their lack of funds to make term
financing.   In retrospect, it appears that the problem  of the public
enterprises (including BDM, the government development bank) were so serious
that they should have started to be addressed at the time of project
preparation and appraisal (1979-1980) rather than in 1985 when the whole
sector had collapsed.
C.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
7.        Pro1ect Obiectives.  The primary objectives of the project were
to s
(a) encourage private productive investment by making a start
towards improving the investment environment and incentive system,
and by providing technical and financial assistance to private
entrepreneurs and artisans; and
(b) demonstrate that finmancial and economic viability may be
achieved for certain state enterprises, when efficient management
is allowed to operate under commercial conditions.



3
8.        Protect ComnoneAts.  To achieve these objectiv4s" the
US$8 million  It project consisted of the six following components
(a)   an *apex* line of credit (US$3.5 million) and technical
assistance to the banklug system to develop comon acceptable
standards for subproject appraisal and supervision (US$100,000);
(b) financial and technical assistance to strengthen C$PI's role
as a promotion and technical acsistance agency (US$350,000); and,
(c) technical assistance to help IPGP carry out a training program
for small entrepreneurs (US$150,000);
(d) the setting up of SERVULART as an extension service agency
providing training and assistance to artisans (US$850,000) and the
establishment, with UNDP's assistance, of a fund to promote and
develop Malian craft exports (US$50,000); and,
(e)  technical end financial assistance to ULB, the state milk-
processing factory, for Its rehabilitation and for the expansion
of its production capacity;
The project also earmsrked US$65,000 to finance the operating cost of a
project coordination unit in the Ministry of Plan.
9.        Proiect Institutions.  To achieve the project's objectives, six
fovernment institutions were going to be involved in, ana benerit from the
project. These were s (a) le Centre d' etude et de promotion industrielle
(CEPI)s (b) le Service de vulgarisation artisanale (SERVULART), to be set up
in the course of the project as an appendage of CEPI; (c) l'Institut de
productivit6 et de gestion pr6visionnelle (IPGP), a vocational training
Institution; (d) la Banque centrale du Mali (BCM); (e) l'Union laitiere de
Bamako (ULD), a government milk factory; and (f) la cellule de coordination,
the coordinating unit.
D.   PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
10.       The scope of this first project in the sector was very wide. It
was  conceived as an IDP-type project of the late 706  that included
institution-building components and technical and financial assistance to
private entrepreneurs. Two self-contained components (the assistance to
artisans and the rehabilitation of ULB) were, however, added to the project
which became, as the SAR admitted, comulex. The 'apes"-type line of credit
(also the first in Western Africa) was another innovative feature Intended
to Increase the number of banks involved in lending in the sector
contributing, thus, to further complicate the project design. In retrospect
it seems that the degree of orenaredness and ability of the lDroiect
institutions and of the Government to adequately $mplement the project had
been overestimated during project preparation. The project institutions were
weak and their role, In particular in the implementation of the line of
j/ US$360,000 refinanced a PPF and US$200,000 were allocated to
contingencies.



credit, were not clearly perceived. Furthermore, the lack of understanding
of, and/or commitment to the project objectives, on their part as well as on
the part of the Government, contributed to impede the project implementation.
11.       This affected especially the implementation pace of the line of
credit which required extended technical assistance to upgrade the subproject
appraisal capability of CEPI, which was expected to play a pivotal role, to
an acceptable level. Extensive supervision work was also needed in the first
years to finally clarify the role of each institution concerned (CEPI, BCH,
the banks and the Ministry of Plan) in the processing of subprojects to be
financed by the project. The supervision missions were not, however,
successful in convincing the Ministry of Plan that the assistance to the
benking system, envisaged in the project, was critical to induce the
participation of all coimercial banks in the line of credit and this
assistance was consequently not provided.
12.       Similarly the training of small entrepreneurs was impeded by IPGP's
'nexDerience. This weak institution was already receiving assistance from
LO to help train micro-entrepreneurs. Under ;he project, it was envisaged
that another ILO assistance, financed by IDA, wuuld provide, in coordination
with CEPI and the banks, training for the :repreneurs benefiting from the
line of credit. Instead, IPGP's management, unable to carry out both tasks
separately, integrated the two training sessions into a single program and
kept organizing short term seminars for micro-entrepreneurs that did not
benefit at all those entrepreneurs concerned by the project.
i.       Finaily, the government commitment to the project was insufficient
to ansure appropriate project coordination.   It did not also take the
decisions needed to ensure the implementation of the ULB component (para. 18)
or to facilitate that of the artisan component (para. 27).
E.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
14.       On account of the shortcomings mentioned above, the project got
off to a very slow start. It was declared effective in September 1980 but,
with the exception of the rehabilitation of ULB's equipment which started
imediately, it remained inactive for years. The technical assistance to
SERVULART became operational only in June 1982, the first subprojects to be
financed out of the line of credit were approved in September 1983 and the
training of small entrepreneurs did not start until November 1985 and the
decision by ULB to initiate, as envisaged, a study of the expansion of its
production capacity from 30,000 to 50,000 liters of milk per day, was taken
at the end of 1985.  The June 30, 1985 credit closing date was therefore
postponed three times: first to June 30 1986, then to June 30, 1987 and
finally to June 30 1988.  Thus, the implementation of the project lasted
almost 8 years instead of the 4.5 years originally planned, which in
retrospect was very optimistic   21
15.       No changes were made to the project objectives.  In 1987, however,
another component was added so that the project funds could be used to help,
2/ According to the region's profiles, the disbursement period of this type
is 9 to 10 years.



5
along with other donors, fight a locust Invasion. The project proceeds have
been reallocated four tinens once to establish a revolving fund and speed up
disbursements; another time to reallocate the funds initially earmarked for
W' s expansion to other components; and twice to increase the amount
allocated in US$ to subprojects under construction, when the CFAF appreciated
significantly against this currency.
16.       Two events, unforeseen at project appraisal, contributed also to
hamper the implementation of the line of credit and of the ULB rehabilitation
component. As regard the former, -the SAR had rightly indicated that one of
the reasons for adopting an *apex'-type mechanism was BDMI's fragile
sltuation. However, no measure was included in the project to prevent this
bank from using the line of credit as long as its finanv:ial situation had not
been restored. Moreover, the willingne3s of the other commercial banks to
participate in the project had not been correctly assessed. As a result, BIN
became the only bank to finance subprojects with the project's proceeds and
its worsening financial situation and weak organization have affected the
quality and operations of the investments financed and explain why about a
third of them (para. 21) did not perform satisfactorily. More importantly,
in retrospect, if the project had addressed the critical situation of BDM
that project preparation had identified, the collapse of this institution
which took place in 1986/1987 might have been avoided.
17.       With regard to the ULB component, while the SAR had projected sales
increasing to 50,000 liters per day by 1985, the factory started facing
marketing problems when it reached, after having renovated its equipments,
a production oi 30,000 liters per day.  This unexpeuted development made
uBI's expansion questionable. In addition, following a government policy
consisting of paying high producer prices to encourage local production, ULB
started in 1986 to process huge quantities of local fresh milk purchased at
a price well above the selling price of its finished product. ULB which was
until then profitable started to post losses because, contrarily to the
assumption underlying this component, the Government did not ensure that this
factory would operate under strict 'commercial conditions".
P.    PROJECT RESULTS
18.       On the whole, notwithstanding the impediments to its implementa-
tion mentioned earlier, the project achieved some of its expected results.
The project's overall objective and expected benefits of creating a nucleus
of essential technical and financial support for Mal! private entrepreneurs
and artisans were obviously not reached.   However,  three of its five
components, the line of credit, the strengthening of CEPI and the training
of artisans, were fully and quite reasonably well implemented. The following
paragraphs analyze the results of the project in more detail.
19.       The Line of Credit.  Despite a slow implementation pace,  this
line of credit, as compared to those granted in the region, has been quite
successful in terms of number of subprojects financed as well as in terms of
proportion of problem-free subprojects. It has finally used more funds and
financed more subprojects than expected: the US$3.5 million initially
allocated to this component was increased to US$4.4 million to finance 27
subprojects. About 30 Z of the line of credit (instead of the 35? originally
planed) was used to finance 15 small-scale subprojects, i.e., those,



6
subprojects. About 30 1 of the line of credit (instead of the 35X originally
planed) was used to finance 15 emall-scale subprojects, i.e., those,
according to the Project Agreement, whose investment cost was lover than PCAF
50 million (about US$180,000) or investment cost per job created vas under
CIA? 4 million (about US$14,000).
2C.       Of the 27 subprojects financed, 19 are now in operation and 8 still
under construction.  Five of those now operating are reported as having
difficulties because of marketing problems, lack of working capital or
inexperienced management. Similarly, 3 of the subprojects under construction
might not be completed because of underestimated investment cost and lack of
complementary financing. On the whole, therefore, 21 ot the 27 subprojects
established with IDA financing can be considered as problem-free. Problem
subprojects where concentrated in two subsectoro where either the demand had
been overestimated (bakeries) or the managerial capability of subproject
sponsors had been overestimated (jewelry stores).
21.       As anticipated at appraisal, the bulk of these subprojects operate
In the food and beverages subsector (11 subprojects or 41Z) and in agro-
industries (5 subprojects or 202). The number of subprojects in construction
materials, light chemicals, textiles and services, has been modest. On the
whole, the subprojects financed by the line of credit have created about 450
new permanent jobs. The average cost per job created of US$19,000, although
high, is in line with the cost per job created by similar projects in the
region. Annex 3 gives detailed information on these subprojects. Given their
short history, however, data on their financial and economic performance are
not yet available.
22.       CEPI.  This institution received technical assistance to improve
its capability in subproject appraisal %,ad in assisting medium- and small-
scale enterprises. The project also provided budgetary assistance to support
its operations and to modernize itg organization and iwternal procedures.
This assistance, combined with that of other donor institutions (UNIDO and
MNDP), has considerably improved its performance.   Today, CEPI can be
considered, in relatives terms, as the best promotion institution of the
region.
23.       CEPI  has  a  staff of  about  50  employees  of which  30  are
professionals.   It is organized in two main departments:  the project
appraisal department and the department of technical assistance to industrial
enterprises. With IDA's assistance, the former has become more and more
active over the years. The number of projects that it has appraised, which
includes all those financed by the line of credit, increased from about 10
only in 1983 to more than 20 by 1986. Although less efficieint than the
appraisal department, the technical department has also becore very active
in the latter years of the project Implementation, when it received adequate
from UNDP. The number of enterprises that it has assisted also increased to
7 in 1984 to 15 by 1986. It should also be noticed that CEPI played a major
role in setting up SERVULART, the body which successfully carried out the
training of artisans (paras. 26 - 29).
24.       The sustainability of CEPI's operations in the future is, however,
questionable.   This government institution did not receive, because of
budgetary constraints, the financial support expected from the Government,



7
other than payment of salaries to its employee3. It has, so far, been able
to develop its operations thanks to the technical and financial assistance
of external donors such as IDA, UNDP etc.. In the final years of the project,
it has started to follow the recosmendations of the supervision missions to
charge a fee for the services that it provides. Fees are now being paid for
subproject appraisals though not for technical assistance. However, in 1987,
these fees hava represented less than 302 of CEPI's budget requirements. It
is very doubtful that they will ever cover its operating expenses or that
CEPI could, therefore, survive without continued external assistance.
25.       The Trainian  of ortisans.  This component was innovative and its
design was original. The training was provided by foreign master artisans
and was based on the cooperative concept, a social feature firmly established
in the rural areas where it was implemented. It demonstrated that training
can markedly improve the production skills of artisans whenever there is
room for improvement of technology and product design without brinfins the
artisans in direct comt*tition with the modern sector. This explains why the
training of weavers was more successful than that of the metalworkers, while
the training of mecianics did not lead to substantial improvement in their
perforrvnce.
26.       To carry out this component, SERVULART was established, under the
umbrella of CEPI, as independent extension services in Segou and Sikasso.
These extension services were very lightly staffed with foreign master
artisans and Malian counterparts. The main problem was to identify foreign
Ma3ter artisans who would be competent and motivated trainers willing and
able to leave in the difficult environment of small Malian citiess some of
the trainers initially recruited had to be replaced after a short time in the
field.   Notwithstanding a slow start mainly due to these unforeseen
difficulties (18 months for getting technical assistance contract signed,
adeqr'te assistance and operating workshops in the field) this component was
implemented with a relative success. About 110 artisans (weavers and
mechanics in Segou, metalworkers and blacksmiths in Sikasso) received
adequate training.   They were taught to improve their techniques by
ameliorating their own equipment or purchasing new but unsophisticated tools.
They were also trained in basic production management.   After having
completed their training, about 80 artisans undertook to pool their skills
and establish cooperatives. This attempt faced two major difficulties: the
long and intricate administrative and legal procedures and the lack of
financing to establish appropriate workshops. After years of efforts, the
weavers, the metalworkers and the blacksmiths each set up a cooperative with
the support of SERVULART and with French (CCCE) financial assistance. The
artisans in mechanics did not create cooperatives, partly because they could
not secure the substantial financing required, but more importantly because
they would have become uncompetitive with either the well established garages
or with their fellow artisans.
27.       The three cooperatives employ about 270 workers in addition to the
80 trained artisans themselves.   The SERVULART component has, therefore,
heloed create or consolidate about 350 iobs. The weavers cooperative operates
very successfully and its products are highly appreciated and in high demand.
Although potentially successful, the two other cooperatives   still face
difficulties in getting credit to purchase the equipment required to complete



8
the settiag up of their workshops.   The three cooperatives are still
benefitting from SERVULART's support for administration and management.
28.       Encouraged by the results of the SERVULART component the Government
is presently seeking donors assistance to expand this experience to other
professions and to cities other than Segou, Sikasso and the capital, Bamako.
This initiative should be supported. However to carry out this project, the
creation, as envisaged by the Government, of a central institution should be
avoided. Instead the setting up of several light and decentralised extension
services similar to SERVULART should be encouraged.
29.       TPGP. The training provided by this institution under the project
was not at all consistent with the project's intent to execute a Obasic
management training program for local entrepreneurs ...refer_ed to the
program by CEPI and the banks.* Instead, IPGP developed, with ILo assistance
financed by the project, general seminars of one or two days, attended by
people as diverse as small entrepreneurs, civil servants and labor union
staff and students.   This has had virtually no impact on the objective
assigned to this component.
30.       The supervision reports suggest that although this institution has
received, in parallel to this project, YDA's assistance under an Education
Project, it has remained very weak. Its management, although replaced twice
during the last years has been largely incompetent and the objectives and
priorities of the institution, in relation to its means, have remained
unclear.
31.       ULD.   The  first objective  of this component consisting of
Increasing its production capacity to 30,000 liter of milk and dairy products
per day has been achieved.   IDA decided not to flnance, as envisaged
originally, a further expansion to 50,000 liters per day because the market
was uncertain and, most importantly because ULB's profitability was affected
as mentioned earlier.  In retrospect, it seems that it was a mistake to
provide assistance to this government enterprise without attempting first to
reform the overall institutional framework regulating the relations of the
Government with its public enterprises to ensure that they can really operate
under strict ccomercial conditions.
G.  THE BANR' S PERFORMANCE
32.       Project preparation was, understandably for a first operation, a
long process (about 107 staff weeks until negotiations).   The ULB and
SERVULART compor-'its were thoroughly prepared by PPF-financed studies.
Although the projuct design was complex, it does not seem that the ability
of the Government and of the project institutions to implement it were ever
questioned. Thus, in retrospect, the main weakness of the preparation stage
seems to have been an underestimation of the difficulties involved in the
implementation of the project. For this reason, IDA supervision had to be
very intensive at the early stage of the project (about 55 staff weeks for
the first 4 years or 581 of total supervision time spent over the 9 years).
The review of the project documentation suggests that it might have been more
advisable to drop the IPGP and the ULB components as soon as it appeared, in
198311984, that they had little chance for success.



9
R.   THE DORROVERS' PERPOMANcE
33.       As mentioned earlier, lack of commitment and understanding of the
project objectives were the main impediments to the implementation of some
components. This was aggravated by frequent changes in the local staff in
charge of the project implementations the managers of IPGP, CEPI and of the
project coordination unit were replaced two to three times over the
implementation period. Although financial assistance had been provided to
this unit, its inefficiency appears to have been the main weakness on the
borrower's side. Complex project design and difficulty, common in Mali, to
coordinate institutions belonging to different ministries certainly affected
its performance. Its usefulness is, on the whole, questionable.
I. CONSULTANT SERVICES
34.       Consultants had been provided to all project institutions.  Their
overall performance was acceptable. Two lessons can, nevertheless, be drawn
from this project.   Firstly, very specialized consultants such as those
needed by SERVULART should have been identified before project implementation
because it was difficult and lengthy to find competent candidates willing to
work under the difficult conditions of small Malian cities. Secondly, it can
be counterproductive to use consultants from UN sister institutions, mostly
when they are already involved with a body receiving our assistance such as
in the case of IPOP, because conflict of objectives might arise.
J.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
35.       This !project was conceived more than 10 years ago and the lessons
that can be drawn from its implementation have since been learned from
similar Bank projects in Africa.  The scope of this particular project,
designed as an IDF-type project of that time was, however, broadened to
include training of entrepreneurs, assistance to artisans and support to the
rehabilitation of a public enterprise. The project was destined, therefore,
to have the merits and weaknesses attached to its own design as well as those
attached to a classical IDF project.
36.       The merit of the project design was its broad scope designed to
tackle the institutional and financial obstacles to the development of the
private sector while attempting to set up an example for the rationalization
of the operations of public enterprises. This proved to be also its main
weakness. For a first Drolect, its scope was far too broad to be carried out
efficiently by institutions andlor the Government whose degree of prepared-
ness, strength and commitment to the project objectives was overestimated.
Furthermore, with the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that the conceltual
basis of the IP¢P and the ULB components was wrona.   It is now well
established that the assistance to the emergence of entrepreneurs involves
much more than providing training in basic management skills. With regard
to the ULB component it is also clear now that the rehabilitation of
individual public enterprises can not succeed if the rationalization of the
public enterprise sector as a whole is not undertaken. In retrospect these
two components should not have been included in the project or should have
been dropped, as contemplated by the supervision missions, as soon as it
appeared that they had very little chance of succeeding.



10
37.      Although the typical IDP components of the project have been
relatively well implemented, their results have some limitations. Firstly,
although the project has significantly strengthened CEPI, this institution
to not viable in the long run without permanent external support. Most of
the promotional institutions of the region similar to CEPI are now defunct
and the new IDP-type projects do not include anymore assistance for those
still surviving because of their proven inefficiency. If a repeater project
is Initiated In Mali, an alternative to CEPI in order to help appraise
subprojects to be financed by the banks should be sought. Secondly, the llne
of credit ended up to be, indirectly, a line of credit to BDM and with the
collapse of this Institution which took place recently, those subprojects
that still needed its assistance (for working capital financIng) have faced
problems. This lesson has already been learned from other similar operations
and the new projects aimed at developiug the industrial sectors in the region
exclude mno  creditworthy banks from benefiting from IDA "apex* lines of
credit. In retrospect this should have been the case for B4W In Mali. But
given the design of the project which relied extensively on government
institutions, to which commercial banks were reluctant to be associated, this
might have meat that the line of credit would not have been used.
38.      Several lessons can be drawn from the SRVULART experiment, the
first being that it is possible to improve the efficiency of artisans and to
create new jobs in the artisan sector. The second is that the artisans "et
likely to benefit from appropriate assistance are those who can Improve their
production tecbniques and product design without being brought Into
competition with the modern sector. The third lesson is that the Government
should be comitted to elimliate administrative obstacles to the setting up
of artisan workshops and to improve its financial system as to make the
financing of such ventures possible.



I I ;laVa
- IT -



- 12 -
A. PROJECT IMPLENENTATION
(a) hacks19mi4
The project had tvo parallel objectives:
-     To improve the investment climate and incentive system in Mali so
as to encourage private productive investments, by setting up an
initial integrated program of financial and technical assistance
for private entrepreneurs and artisans, who had long been
neglected by the credit system;
-     To institute a pilot project in the sector formed by the public
enterprises so as to demonstrate that certain of them could become
financially and economically profitable if efficient management
were allowed to operate them under commercial conditions.
Although the Credit Agreement, for US$8 million, was signed on
May 23, 1980 and ratified by Law 80-10/AN/RN of May 26, 1980 and by
Decree 124/P-RM of June 5, 1980, actual implementation of project components
proceeded at a slow pace:
RIB: The first project disbursement, on October 27, 1980, was
made to this public enterprise, but given the obsolete condition of its plant
and equipment, rehabilitation or replacement of certain items had to be
financed to avoid a halt in production.
=EI: The initial disbursement to this entity was made on
January 14, 1981, for studies on craft textile production and reorganization
of the entity itself.
Z.GP: The agreement between ILO and the Government of Mali on
this project component was signed only on March 13, 1984, and it had not been
until August 1983 that the Government, IDA and ILO decided to give a much
broader approach to the component that would enable it to cover the full range
of SME development needs and respond to the new directives set down for IPGP.
The agency's function, which had been to provide basic and advanced training
for public enterprise and ODR professional staff, was extended to SNEs in
1983.
Revolving Fund or Special Account (BCM and BCEAO): Although this
had not been provided for in the original Credit Agreement, a request from the
Malian authorities on Nay 18, 1983 led to its being established under a letter
of amendment dated July 28, 1983; its administration was entrusted to the
Central Bank and it was to consist of up to US$500,000 of the project proceeds
allocated to the line of credit. This change was embodied in a first
amendment to Annex I of the original Credit Agreement.
Reallocation: There were six reallocations:
-     July 28. 1983:  Although this was not a reallocation in the real
sense of the word, it was effected through the above-mentioned
amendment to Annex I of the original Agreement.



- 13 -
-    November 4. 1984:  This was the first outcome of the ULB request
regarding factory expansion costs and of the CEPI request in
connection with the continuation of SERVULART programs.
-    M .N 1986:  Reallocation needed to cover the additional
requirements of assistance for SERVULART.
-    March 1987:  Following the Government's decision to abandon plans
to expand ULB, the funds earmarked for this purpose vere
reallocated to fighting a locust invasion, covering the impact of
dollar devaluation on some SHE subprojects, and funding certain
subprojects under appraisal by BCEAO.
- January 198:  Unallocated funds from categories l(c), 2, 5(A) and
6(A) were allocated to ensure financing for all IDA-approved
subprojects.
- October 1938:  Not a reallocation in the strict sense of the word,
but a move to accelerate direct payments to suppliers before
December 31. 1988, the Credit closing date.
Once established in 1983, the revolving fund proved generally
advantageous. Principally, it meant that allocated funds were always
available to accelerate promoters' purchases of equipment, and that the
utilization and verification of allocated funds could be monitored through the
articles produced by promoters. However, there were also some shortcomings
associated with the revolving fund:
-     the lvel of initial allocation was inadequate, which made
repeated replenishment necessary and consequently caused delays in
payments;
-     exchange rates fluctuations created enormous difficulties when
payments were being made; moreover, the value of the funds
allocated to certain subprojects declined gradually, giving rise
to applications for additional funding;
-     the practice of paying some promoters directly meant that they
were able to buy secondhand equipment and use the resulting
surplus for other purposes.
(b)   Naior Benefits of Each Proiect Commonent
Line of credit
-     BCEAO:  Establishment of the revolving fund allowed greater
flexibility in settling with local suppliers, reducing delays in this area.
Direct payments to local suppliers, possible thanks to the availability of
funds, led to better use of those funds. It became possible to monitor the
utilization and verification of allocated funds through monitoring of articles
produced by promoters.



- 14 -
Di: Through this financial Institution, the project was able to
prefinance 27 SIEs, of which 21 belong to the manufacturing sector, five to
the livestock sector and one to the transportation sector. As to their
geographical distribution, 21 are located in urban centers and six in rural
centers. All are owned by private individuals (Nalians). They have created
222 new jobs and have increased the proportion which value added by the
private manufacturing sector plays in overall value added.
ma
Despite the decision not to expand ULI, the fact that some of its
plant was overhauled, repaired or replaced was of considerable benefit,
enabling it to restore its production capacity to 30,000 liters/day, maintain
its employment level, Improve its marketing and upgrade its plant management.
A further benefit of the decision was that the proceeds available for creating
SMFS were substantially increased.
The financial and technical assistance made available under the
Credit Agreement enabled this agency to assist national institutions to carry
out specific development projects:
-     building up of CEPI itself as an institution, through extension of
its promotional capabilities and strengthening oi its management,
goals that can be regarded as achieved;
-     setting up of a Participation and Guarantee Fund.
sJU!P1A
Technical assistance for artisans and small entrepreneurs, with
the following twofold purpose:
-     to demonstrate that ways and means of promoting Mali's artisanal
sector could be identified and successfully put into practice;
-     to use the experience thus acquired in setting up an agency with
specific responsibility for sector problems, formulation of a
national policy for the sector, and coordination of all actions
targeted on it.
Although the first of these objectives has been achieved (taking
longer than expected, almost 80 instead of 30 months), the second remains
pending.
Assistance through IPGP/II0 in the form of a training program for
small entrepreneurs, as a result of which the following programs were
undertaken:



- 15 -
-    surveys of SHEs, leading to the design of training programs and
methods;
-    organization of training a^tivities;
-    training outreach;
-    monitoring of training through its impact on selected SMEs;
-    special training for IPGP personnel responsible for SME
development programs.
(c)   Failure to Obtain Anticiiated Results
While it is difficult to say that implementation of any one entire
component of this Credit Agreement failed to produce the anticipated results,
it is true that certain subcomponents did.
Revolving fund and line of credit
-    The resources allocated to the revolving fund were not adequate,
which meant it had to be replenished on varic'us occasions;
-    exchange rate fluctuations during the life of the project meant
that SME entrepreneurs applied for additional funding;
-    a frequent consequence of direct payments to entrepreneurs was
that they purchased secondhand equipment;
-    subprojects in jewelry manufacture did not give the expected
results;
-    the inability of the Mali Development Bank to provide start-up
working capital for entrepreneurs had a considerable impact on the
management history of new ventures, although eventually efforts
were made to divert some part of Credit proceeds to this area.
Although the decision not to go ahead with the expansion of ULB
might perhaps be regarded as a semi-failure, the company does owe its present
production capacity of 30,000 liters/day to the Credit Agreement.
CEPI
The FPG (Participation and Guarantee Fund), intended for the
benefit of S4Es and artisans, was never formally set up, as the necessary
legislative instruments were never enacted. Although plans were to fund the
FPG from the net interest differential (5 percent) between Central Bank and
commercial bank transactions, it received a total of no more than five
allocations, amounting to CFAF 6.9 million. This inadequate level of funding
can be ascribed either to BDM's refusal to release funds (because of the



- 16 -
failure to pass FMG enabling legislation) or to difficulties with recoveries
once loans reached maturity.
The proposal agency that was to take on specific responsibility
for problems effecting the artisanal sector (i.e. the second objective of the
technical assistance arrangements for artisans and small entrepreneurs) never
saw the light of day, The technical assistance directed toward accomplishment
of the first objective took twice as long as expected. That objective w--. a
prerequisite for implementation of the second, which presented a complex task
in an area where there had been little previous experience.



- 17 -
B. USE OF LI   OF CREDIT - REVOLVING FUND
Under the terms of Credit Agreement 986-MLI between IDA and the
Government of the Republic of Mali. utilization of the line of credit was
dependent on a considerable number of factors, some of which were:
-     the duration of the Agreement itself;
-    the provision of information for economic agents on how the
proceeds of the Agreement were to be allocated;
-    the existence and selection of competitive entrepreneurs;
-    the time taken up by the loan application appraisal arnd approval
procedures used by banks and promotional institutions;
-    the degree ef forcefulness among entrepreneurs in pushing ahead
with their investment plans, and their ability to put up financing
of their own.
The revolving fund, to be managed by the Central Bank, was
intended as a mechanism through which a portion (up to US$500,000) of the line
of credit would be distributed.
As far as actual implementation of the Credit Agreement is
concerned, it is difficult to assess the impact of the revolving fund on the
use made of the line of credit, particularly as the factors listed above
played a considerable part in setting the stage for payment procedures.
However, the revolving fund clearly brought in the following advantages:
-    the ready availability of allocated funds speeded up
entrepreneurs' purchases of equipment;
-    it was possible to justify and verify the allocated funds
disbursed to entrepreneurs by tracking the articles they produced.
The weaknesses in the revolving fund were mainly in the area of
prefinancing, which depended on the ability of entrepreneurs to come up with
their own funding or on their success in convincing their banks to cover their
financing needs in advance. Such weaknesses were exacerbated by the
inadequacy of the resources initially allocated to the fund, which meant that
it had to be replenished on several occasions; this involved delays, which in
their turn held up the disbursement process.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate created enormous difficulties
when disbursement were to be made; in particular, the financing allocated to
certain subprojects declined steadily in value, forcing their promoters to
apply for supplementary funding. A further difficulty was the unsatisfactory



- 18 -
nature of a proportion of payment vouchers, another cause of disbursement
delays.
Despite these shortcomings and difficulties, the revolving fund
proved to be generally satisfactory, although results would have been better
had other payment procedures been selected to fit in with the specific
features of each subproject.
January 25. 1989



- 19 -
SRIFI. BAMAKO
REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF IDA LINE OF CREDIT
The IDA line of credlt negotiated in May 1980 actually came into
effect in 1983. Handled through the Mali Development Bank (BDM), it served as
the source of financing for 27 subprojects, as follows:
1.          Subproject 1 B - A 3:  SOCOM
A limited liability company promoted by Abdoulaye Caadra, SOCOM is
headquartered in the Bamako industrial zone. Its business is steel frame
construction and general building. It began operations on receiving its first
loan funds in September 1984, three years after its articles of incorporation
were executed. During that period, the characteristics of the market had
altered to such a point that the company had to reformulate its strategy:
between 1980 and 1985, a multitude of artisan welders appeared on the scene,
especially in Bamako, capturing a large share of the steel frame construction
market that was SOCOM's logical target; moreover, Mali's general building and
public works contractors, who had previously followed the custom of
subcontracting their steel frame construction jobs, had now almost all
equipped themselves for such work. Thus SOCOM, like other similar local
businesses, had to refocus its activities on the civil engineering market in
order to survive. This reorientation was carried out by recruiting
specialized personnel and purchasing the right equipment on the one hand, and
through the owner's personal knowledge of the building market on the other.
SOCOM acquires its materials solely on the local market and as it
needs them. Its major purchases are cement, steel rods/bars for reinforced
concrete, rolled steel structural shapes, flat rolled steel products, tanks,
Lronmongery, and plumbing and electrical materials -- a range of articles that
has expanded steadily over the years. SOCOM works to order and provides a
very wide range of services.
At the present moment, the company is experiencing difficulties at
its work sites because of the lack of adequate bank assistance. Although some
of its jobs are behind schedule, all are proceeding thanks to supplier credit.
Its order book looks satisfactory, and it might have looked excellent had the
right sort of bank support not been lacking. However, given its style of
organization and its scientific approach to the market, SOCOM, according to
both its shareholders and its sources of financing, has a reputation as a
pilot enterprise, so that the credibility and confidence it inspires are
evidence that the reorganization process it has put itself through has
succeeded.
2.          Subnroject ? ? - B 2:  Ferme Avicole (Massama Konate)
This poultry farm at Seb6nikiro, a commercial-scale undertaking
located a few kilometers outside Bamako, is run personally by its promoter,
Massama Konate. Established in 1984, the venture enjoys a favorable economic
environuent and does not have to contend with any major difficulties.



- 20 -
3.          Suboroject 1 B - A 4:  Boulangerie de San (Sa- jir ma;)
This bakery began operations in May 1984 and functioned normally
'mtil November 1986, when the following factors began to undermine its
performance: a slump in sales owing to an excellent millet harvest (millet
being the staple food among the rural population); and heavy competition from
traditional bread.
As the business was not generating sufficient funds to meet
payment obligations, the owner decided to pay his loan installments from his
income from gasoline sales until such time as he could get the bakery back on
its feet, which he proposed to do by running an advertising campaign to awaken
rural groups to the quality of commercially-produced bread.
4.          Sub2roiect 1 B - A 2:  Boulangerie de Koutiala (Dramane Sanogo2
Having begun operations in 1984, this business ran into the same
difficulties as Boulangerie de San, as it too is geared to selling in rural
areas. Again, this borrower is repaying his loan, mainly from income
generated by his activities in the transportation tield.
5.          SubDroject 1 B - A 1:  STI (Mohamed I,nine Tounkara)
This project, an international transport company, is operating
normally. The loan is still within the grace period.
6.          SUb2rolect 1 B - A 6: Mali Volaille (Alfred Bocoum)
The poultry farm project was launched in June 1985, although egg
production began only in December 1985, six months later. Operations started
up before all facilities, particularly the feed silo, were in place. When the
silo was being assembled in 1986, it was realized that certain parts of the
structure were missing, the promoter receiving additional financing to be able
to buy what was needed to complete the job.
The project is operating at only two thirds of its installed
_ity, contrary to the initial projections.  Theoretically, it is in its
third year of operation, but technical problems, losses occasioned by
diseases, and the steady rise in the price of feed (corn) over the three years
have adversely affected operating results. Nevertheless, all loan repayment
obligations have been met satisfactorily.
7.          Sub2roiect 1 B - A 8:  Fabriques de Boissons Gazeuses (Hamadoun
Garba Ta2o)
The fact that this project, a carbonated beverages factory, is
located at Mopti, a very popular tourist resort where there is no similar
business, has undoubtedly been a great advantage. Major factors in the
approval of the project were its market potential and the promoters' serious
approach. The company began operations in October 1988.



- 21 -
8.          Subvroiect 1 A - B 1:  Ferme d'Embouche (Sori Coulibaly)
Launched in July 1985, this livestock fattening project is
operating normally and meeting its financial commitments promptly.
9.          Subgroject 1 B - A 7:  Boulanferie de B6l6dougou (Malick Camara)
Launched in May 1986, this ktkery showed a business turnover
figure of CFAF 82,373,280 for 1987, total output being sold in Kati and its
surroundings. The enterprise has had to contend with the following
difficulties: materials delivered were not as specified; in less than two
years of operation, the oven has caused enormous difficulties (frequent
breakdowns and difficulty of obtaining spare parts, even in Europe, as their
manufacture was suspended four years ago); and lack of start-up working
capital. The operation has been financed on supplier credits and equity
funds. No loan repayments have been made so far as the grace period is still
running.
10.         Slftr2ject I A - B 4:  Boulangerie de Sdvar6 (Anzadou Sidiki Sow)
This bakery has been in operation since October 22, 1988.
11.         Subproiect 1 A - B 3:  Boulangerie de Tombouctou
As this business is no longer in operation, the file has been sent
to our legal services staff so that recovery action may be taken.
12.         Suboro1ect 1 A - B 5:  Boulangerie Bambo (Alassane Diiteve)
Although this business is operating normally, no loan repayments
have yet been made as the grace period is still running.
13.         Suboroiect 1 B - A 9:  SODEMA (Alain Achcar)
Although this soap factory opened its doors in April 1987,
production planning has always been very difficult because financing for
working capital needs has not been available from BDM, which, in view of its
cash flow difficulties, has been unable to provide short-term funding for
purchase of raw materials. Consequently, the company produces by fits and
starts, as equity funding becomes available.
At the present time, Mali is flooded with illegal imports. As far
as exports operations are concerned, there are major possibilities, but lack
of financing puts a damper on all development of this type.
The company itself finances 90 percent of its purchases, while
10 percent are obtained by virtue of various supplier credits and an overdraft
facility (CFAF 10 million) with BMCD (Banque mallenne de credit et de d6p6ts).
In addition, raw materials (oilseeds) need to be purchased in bulk
if advantage is to be taken of good prices, whereas SODEMA buys in small lots.



- 22 -
Although the company may be somewhat late in settling its loan
repayment obligations, it has no bad debts so far.
14.         Subprosect 1 A - B 6:  Biiouterie DeIba Diaw et Comoagnie
All disbursements have been made to this jewelry manufacturing
project. The promoter is in difficulties meeting loan repayment obligations.
Stock has been repossessed by the supplier, and inquiries are under way to
determine the precise reasons for this move.
15.         Subgroject 1 A - B 7:  Palais de Vetement (Wally Bathily)
For lack of working capital, this enterprise (garment manufacture)
began operations in the face of great difficulties in May 1986. However, it
has managed to stay more or less in business, thanks to interim resources. At
present, because of these problems, it is in arrears to BDM.
16.         Subnroiect 1 A - B 8:  Ferme Avicole de San (Ibrahima T. Traor6)
This poultry farm project has run into all types of difficulties,
both natural calamities and financial problems. Its arrears are payable to
the San branch office, which would like to go ahead with the rescheduling of
the debt.
17.         Subgroiect 1 A - B 9:  Bilouterie (Mama Bvee)
The total IDA subloan has been disbursed in this case. The
project (jewelry manufacture) is in operation, despite the lack of certain
materials which the borrower has not yet received from France. The company is
having difficulties settling its arrears.
18.         Subproject 1 A - B 10:  Fabrigue de Glace (Ms. Assitan Traor6)
This project, an iceworks, is in operation and has drawn down all
subloan funds. It is up to date in meeting its loan repayment obligations.
19.         Subproject 1 B - A 10:  Fabrique de Glace (Sekou Camara)
The project, an iceworks, has been awaiting delivery of equipment
held in bond by the Customs authorities at Faladi4 for eight months, while
work on construction of the building in which it will be housed has been
suspended for lack of the loan funds needed to complete the job. The project
has overrun the original cost estimate by almost 40 percent, owing to a change
of location from Sogoniko to the M6dine market. Because of the nature of the
site at NMdine, the funding allocated for construction at Sogoniko was
inadequate, which explains why the construction job is still unfinished. The
work of assembling the plant and getting it into operation has not been
started. It has never been possible to keep to the basic planning schedule,
since the entire project has been held up for lack of additional credit.



- 23 -
20.         Subnroieot 1 B - A 11:  A&tratign d, Salel gt Grgrvier (Alassan
Sidib6S
The necessary equipment has been ordered for this sand and gravel
quarry. In December 1988, the promoter finally recovered the fees he paid for
transportation of the equipment, which bad been frozen in the account of the
original shipper, who was finally unable to carry out the job. The promoter
was then obliged to contract with another shipper, who is now arranging
delivery in Bamako.
21.         Sub2roiect 1 A - B 12: Atelier de Coutute (Karamoko Ciss4)
Although the project (garment manufacture) is in operation and all
loan funds have been drawn down, it appears that equipment purchased was -
secondhand and that most of it is not in working order because of the lack of
spare parts. Legal proceedings are to be taken against the promoter so that
the bank can obtain access to its funds.
22.         Sub2roiect 1 A - B 11:  Conditionnement de Condiments (Ms. Kariko
Fadima SLbfi
Located in Bamako, this enterprise is a semi-industrial one
engaged in the packing of foodstuffs. Construction of the premises was
completed in November 1987, and although the necessary machinery has been
installed the business is being operated only very tentatively because of a
lack of working capital. The subloan funds allocated for this purpose are
scheduled to become available in the near future.
23.         Sub2roject 1 B - A 12: Bijouterie (Fode Sacko)
This venture (jewelry manufacture) is in difficulties. It has
been entirely unable to make repayments to the bank. Materials ordered have
not been delivered as there is a balance owing on the supplier's invoice.
Negotiations are now in progress for a credit from the supplier.
24.         Subproject 1 A - B 13:  Garage Noderne (Bamou Tours)
This project has so far drawn down CFAF 12,500,000 out of a total
allocation of CFAF 18,205,000, and is going through thle execution process
normally. Equipment ordered in France is now en route to Bamako.
25.         Subproject 1 A - B 14:  SNMEDA (Sallah Diallo)
All loan funts have been drawn down and the project execution
process is nearing completion. Equipment which had been held up by the
Customs authorities has just been released; the promoter had not been able to
obtain an extension of his earlier exemption.
26.         Sub2roject 1 A - B 15: Pisciculture (Bakoroba Kane)
Approved by IDA on July 29, 1987, this fish farm project is moving
through the execution process normally.



- 24 -
27.         SubDroject 1 B - A 5; SOMAPRA (LadJi Thera)
IDA approval for this beverage manufacturing project was given in
June 1984.  Because of an investment cost overrun, supplementary funding was
approved in June 1986 but could not finally be disbursed until 1988. Since
this last disbursement, the project has been going normally through the
execution process.
All necessary factory plant has now been delivered to the project
site, and the interior of the building is being fitted up to accommodate the
machines and the water tower. Technicians are expected in February for the
start-up phase.
Bamako, January 27, 1989
/Is NAKADOU D. SENE
DIRECTOR (ACTING), SRIFI



- 25 -
CA3~mzc8OF                   TM~CkXS~FJ  1
--I-   toa ofl -a*          ob
i _ I  8 1 i0k M*
____________             s~~ubIe&%
-r etr e                     21      1  9 330 149   1  77% 0      0;83
- lbanspo                   I  S      .  136 67 928       0.19      0,>
£  £       SW100000       0
' t t t 121  0I 10(   1 10
2-    2         S '           a       a
- less than l100            1 24   1   900302 ),.  1  0,89   1  0,66
-100 to 12S                 I *      1   121 S            0,06    1  0,o
-12  t  150                 I  -   I        -          I    -.    !   -
-1  t*o.                        2   1   385171679   1  Of*?   1  026
-   -                  I 2         
3.$IoFLoat~DX8~g~a1~.27          1 14675318077      10010     1001I
orLox                                  a      ,
Is than 50                  1 17 l       S18 824 928   1  0,63   1  0,36
- so too                    1  7   1 . 441477 470   1  0,26   1  0,30
- MO  to 150                S  1         121 00000 c   I  0I06       0,06
-Ito4 to +                12 _    .37S 57S 67          0.7  1     0,
2    a I467 518 077          100% I    1O 0
4- MMf    -I                                             I 
Uwe sLl   a you           I 0    1                   I   -     I   -
31 to2yna s                 I 16   1   903 199 774   1  0,66   a  0,62
-2 to 3 y                   I  W   1   430 86  970   1  0,30   1  0,29
-3 or w    am13                                 33                    - -,
-I1Th1  27   a 1 467 518 077  100-%    1 0
a  I               ~~~~~~~~~~I
-sthean2 yh                 I  0 o           -        I    -    i    -
-Ito4 yn.                   I  I         a            a  oo0     1  001
-4to 7ye s.                 a iS   1   96 630277   1  0,"    a  0.67
-7tol  0 yum                I       1   460887 80     1  3,3    1  0,32
-  1to i5 ymo               I   0   a             -             I
oviw is'            1-                        I
I 6-D~~~(*0a~~Jw       27 ~1 467 516 077   *100%   g  100%1
_-    of| Em5f        s t,s  
27I        6 SIS0        a  to     I   0 
27   t 1 467 S8 077o       1 0  1    100 
S   _  I _ . . . a            a 
27      1 467 5t8077       100o  a    ID 0
a~~~~ ~~ a 27                                          £  ?S80  ItO*t1
- l6     866588 450   t   22%         6%
121       13.0 929 677        7 7        94 a
|                     ~ ~~~~~I  I                I         I



LISTING OF SUROJECTS FINANCED UIDER tHLE WOW
EUPIOJECT NINE          PRONO          SECTOR               PROCUCT        IDA LOM        U  LON        TYPE   LOCATION     CAPITAL
10=                     A. Caura       Steet froe cntr.   Buftldins       70,429,500    17,560,21       Nme    Blmko         Pritwte
IENt AVICOIE            N. Konate      Pouttry              Poultry      21,766.000                    NM    Dink           Private
WOULANUIE OE SAN        S. Naw         Nmufacturing         Baked         56,633,000    11,000,000      NeW    Sm           Prvato
3U_LAORIE 0E KUTIALA   D. SagoM     b     nufaoturing       Bakey         60,198,000                    Nlw    KoutItlo      Privte
STI                     N.L. Touakera  Transport            Vehbloe      121,500,000                    NW    linko         Prtvete
SNRA                    L. Therwo      Nufacturin           Beraes    160,000,000       29,010,55       NMo      itilo      Prvawte
KLI OLAILLE             A. Bocow       Poultry              Poultry       41,500,000    47,SOO.000     me     ldok.        Private
FAIRIE OE OISSOIS       0. Tapo         NufacturIng         Bevrag       67,000,000      6,000,000     Nmw   Nopti          Prtvato
F    DEENBUUCNE         S. Coulibaly   Livestock fattening   Fat tlivestock 21,908,000   1,940,000      NMw    MMgw         Privte
UOUNUARIE BELEDOUIOU    D. Cosra       MNufacturing         Bakery        49,972,000    10,931,000      New    Kett         Private
BOULANSERIE SEVARE      A.S. Sow       Nanufacturing        Bay           48,075,000    27,000,000      new    S6vr6         Privto
UUUIGERIE TONBMJCTU    A. Sidi         Nanufacturing        Bakery        40,665,000    30,62,867       N"    Taohuctou    Private
0UWANGERIE BDO          A. ojiteye      anufacturing        Bakery       SO,000,000     4,S61,925       New    Smako        Private
SODENA                  A. Achcar      Nanufacturing        soap         22S,71S,679                    New    alko          Private
BIJOUTERIE              D. Diaw        Jewelry              Gold, silver  19,316,000    12,833,000      New    Bmako        Private
PALALS DE VETENENT      V. ,athily     Garment              Fabric        57,016,970                    New    Omko         Private
FERNE AVICOLE DE SAN    T. Traore      Poultry              Poultry      20,502,730                     New    Son          Private
BtJOUTEItE              N. Beye        Jewelry              Gold, seiver  20,000,000     1,500,000      New    Bamako       Prinvte
FAURIUE DE GLACE        A. Traore      Manufacturing        Ice          32,500,000      2,000,000      New    Bmako        Private



FMIIE  DE GLACE         S. Camra       Nnufwturlng    lee                 48.60,000                     NM    Bmo            PCri vte
EMtACTION SLE-GRAVIER  A. Sidib6       Nowuamrctiw         Grelw         48,000trjo                    Nam    Sam           Private
ATELIER DE CXlE1         K. C99a       Garment              Fabrfc        13,000,000                    NN    smo            Private
CONOITIONNENIT C1IN.   N.F. Siby       Nmdcturing           Condimnts   2t,000,000                      mm    Smk            Privet.
GARAE NDE               B. Tur5        Znufacwturfn         Gar           18,205,000                    New    Baoko         Pr veto
BtJUTERIE                F. sackeo     Nuuacturing          Gold, silver 40.000,000                     New    _mm           Private
SNUIEA                  S. Dialto      N focturng           Joinery       15,600,000                    NM    BSo            Privle
PISCICLIWRE      B        . KIne       Fih farmin           Fash          27,971,000                    New    "gw           Privete
1.467,497.879    243,S29,918
l4



EXECUTION PERFOMAJICE TABLE
tunestaent Cost
FRR X           ERR X                CFAF (000)                Start-Us Date        Job Created
SU8PROJECT ME              PCRONTER        Est.   Act.   Est.   Act.         Est.      Act. Overrun   Est.       Act.      Ovm. Est. Act.  +*-
SOOU                       A. Camear      27.14   18.16  33.r5   30.04   93,452   107,697  14,245    1986        1986      1 yr.  40   53  +13
Fenm Avicote de
Ibeinikiro               N. Konato      22.99      PN   17.03            31,822   42,S06  10,684   Nay 85   Aug. 80               6   14   +8
Boutainerle deSan          8. Nomn        19.02       -     [         -         *         .       .    .         .                 23    -    *
8oultnserle de Koubtela   D. Ssnogo       17.56           23.30           107,7B3         -       -    *                           21    -    *o
STI/CCG                    N.L. Tounkera  16.95   22.14    [PI   27.94   142,S10   163,141  20,631    Narch 86 Dec. 86             42  26   16
SOPAMA de Koutfate         L. Tfere       31.72       *  41.53        -  205,60S  260,000 54,395    6/13/85   4/1/85    5 yrs. 20   21   +1
Ralf Volaftle              A. Socoum      43.57   21.02      [?l  26.16   77,372   101,196 23,824    1?1         Aug. 86   1 yr.  12  11   -1
Fabrique Boissons          0. Tapo        36.73       -  41.34        -   ",051          -       -   -          -                 20
Nopti
Ebbouche de Sokoto         S. Coutibaly      33   24.12     [?7  24.12   33,972    33,620    -352    -                     -       20
Boutangerie de Kati        N. Camara      19.26    6.21      173    3.66   71,804    72,220    +416    Nov. 8S  5/1/86   6 mos.  11  19   +8
Soulangerfe de S6var6      A.S. Sow       22.87       -  36.07        -   98,408   112,016  13,608   Dec. 87  Oct. 88   10 moo. 21   18   -3
Boulangerie de Toibouctou Adiabfakoye    27.53        -   4.14        -   61,040                                                   21
Boulangerfe Bambo          A. Djiteye     23.15   19.14      m?]   27.2  119,141   132,040  12,899    June 86  Nov. 87             20
SODENA                     A. Achcar      29.37              21           685,721                                                  33    -



BIosuterte                D. Die"         42.4       -  40.10             37r149                                                 14
Patais de Motment         W. Bathily    45.06        -  52.80        -   72,328    79,025   6,702    12/19/86  7/7/88   19 on. 10  12   +2
Ferme Avfcole de San      J.T. Traor6   24.51            19.63            32,257                                                  4
BliJouterfe               N. saw         28.31            39.1       -   18,328   26.679  8,351    Nay 87  Apr. 89  2 yrs.  9   13   t4
Fabr1que Blace            S. Camara      18.87       -  34.62        -   65,009   82,834 17,825    Jan. 86  Mar. 89  26 m*s. 11  11test.)
Confection Sebta          A. Sidib6      42.40       -  43.41        -   S3,000   63,110  10,110   Sep. 87  July 89  21 me. 11  11test.)
Atethor de Couture        K. Clsse       35.81           41.58            13,000                                                 18
Condition. Condiments     N.F. Stby      26.23       -  41.33        -   28,199   29,990   1,791    12/19/86 0?/07/88  19 me. 13  12
Garage                    BAOURE         33.90       *  44.10             25,34r   31,581  6,234   Ap. 88   Jun 89  14 ms. 11  11(eW.)
BSjoUterie                f. Sacko           5              19       *  120,273                                                  14
SNMA                      S. DiahLo      30.15       .  34.64             23,200                                                  7
Piscicutturo de Mifno     B. Kan         40.40       -  48.37             37,499                                                  7
Date on KEs located outside Samako could not be compfted within the tfmh avalableo despfte the concerted efforts of BON branch offices, and wilt be
provided at a later date. The sW3projects affected are: Nos. 3, 4, 6, 8, 11, 12 and 17.
Those SNEs sAich were granted extensions end have therefore not reached the start-up poSnt were not in a position to supply financial date, given the
lack of accounting records. The subprojects affected are: Nos. 11, 15, 16, 18, 20, 21, 23, 24, 27.
The promoters of stbprojects Mo. 22 (Ateller Couture, K. Cfsed) and No. 26 (SlMEA, S. DSallo) could not be contacted by the mfssfon, as the former
was traveling and the latter was sSck. The missing fnformatfon on their enterprises will be forwarded to you shortly.



- 30 -
C. BAMKO MILK COMPANY (ULB)
Category l(c): ULB Subloan, US$2,100,000
Category 2: Consultants' and Experts' Services for ULB, US$250,000
(a)   RecaRitulation of obiectives for ULB
Under this project, ULB was to be assisted to increase Its
production capacity through a program to extend its plant, strengthen its
management and assure its financial and operating autonomy. This was intended
as a pilot measure focused on rehabilitating a public enterprise.
The aim of the program was to guarantee ULB's long-term efficiency
and thereby set a precedent for the operation of gover.ment-owned enterprises.
ULB was chosen for this role because of the relevance of its field of activity
and its management potential. It was the only milk-processing company in Mali
and therefore satisfied one of the country's basic nutritional needs.
(b)   Results of assistance
Having been the recipient of assistance until 1984, ULB began to
show operating losses in 1985.  This new situation was ascribable to:
increased reliance on the world market for supplies of milk powder
and butter oil by comparison to the supplies available under the
World Food Program at extremely low prices;
i     the marked increase in the volume of raw milk purchased locally,
which rose from 500 liters/day in 1984 to 5,000 liters/day in
1985, at a price approximately CFAF 200 above the ULB selling
price.
The Appraisal Report, the basis on which IDA agreed in 1984 that
the plan to increase ULB capacity from 30,000 to 50,000 liters/day should go
ahead, had assumed that raw materials would be obtainable at international
market prices. However, it did not foresee that local purchases of raw milk,
which were insignificant at the time as regards volume and especially price,
would increase significantly once milk cooperatives came into operation in the
Bamako region.
This new set of circumstances brought the whole matter of ULB
profitability into question, and so too the agreement on the part of IDA to
finance the company's expansion.
The expansion of ULB (approved by the Council of Ministers) and
the progressive substitution of local raw milk for imported raw materials were
two fundamental components in the Government's policy where development of the
milk subsector was concerned.
In August 1986, the Government cancelled the expansion plan.  Th -
decisiov was dictated by its wish to continue its policy of fostering



- 31 -
development of the milk production subsector by keeping prices for local raw
milk attractive while at the same time concentrating on a solution to ULB's
current problems, particularly the difficulties it was encountering in
disposing of its output.
A part of the remainder of the Credit proceeds allocated to ULB
(under Categories l(c) and 2) was used to finance the anti-locust campaign
carried out during the 1986 crop year (US$54,000).
(c) Imoact of the groiect on ULB gerformance
Before project implementation began, ULB's plant and equipment had
been damaged by being operated for a time at a level in excess of actual
production capacity -- damage that was exacerbated by the inadequacy of
routine maintenance.
The end result was that several essential items of equipment
needed to be overhauled or replaced urgently if production were not to come to
a complete standstill. The retroactive financing through the project of these
key plant rehab operations enabled ULB to continue functioning.
(d)   Eial outwom
The UIB rehabilitation and expansion program enabled the company
to:
achieve a production capacity of 30,000 liters/day;
keep the number of jobs it provided at the same figure;
upgrade both its marketing and plant management.



- 32 -
D. REPORT ON TECICL  SSjCE
(CEPI. SEIVU&. IPOP)



- 33 -
REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINISTLY OF INDUSTRY. WATER RESOURCES ANDL EXRGY
C;entre d4tudes et de Dromotlpo  IndustrIelles (CEPl:
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IDA CREDIT AGREEMENT 986-MLI OF MAY 23. 1980
I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO CEPI
II. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SERVULART
November 1988



- 34 -
Introductio
IDA Credit Agreement 986-MII, signed iJn May 23, 1980, was an
important instrument whose purpose was development of the industrial sector in
Mali. Designed to provide financial and technical assistance to help the
country's artisanal enterprises and SNEs to carry out specific development
projects, it had several components, one of which is the subject of the
following section of this PCR, namely:
Institution-building
This component of the Credit Agreement was to focus on
strengthening the promotional and technical assistance capabilities of CEPI
and on upgrading its management, through:
(a)   reorganization (a new organization chart);
(b)   staff training;
(c)   financing some of its operating costs;
(d)   providing it with a range of equipment;
(e)   providing resources for its Participation and Guarantee Fund;
(f)   implementing a pilot project under which SERVULART, an extension
service agency for artisans, was to be set up.
With these purposes in mind, Credit proceeds were allocated to
CEPI as follows:
1.    CEP113 buduet:  Funds allocated to the financing of
(a) consultants' and experts' services and (b) other expenditure.
2.    S.RVLARTA bNdpt:  Funds allocated to the financing of
(a) consultants' and experts' services and (b) other expenditure.
3.    Part of the interest differential on IDA subloans:  Allocated to
artisans, SMEs and ULB.
I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR CEPT
1.          The original purpose of this assistance was, as already noted, to
strengthen CEPI's promotional and technical assistance capabilities, upgrade
its internal management, and improve the quality of its services by making
them much more efficient and effective. This objective remained unchanged
throughout the project execution process.
2.          A range of goods and services was financed from the funds
allocated to the CEPI 3(a) and 3(b) budgets, as follows:



- 35 -
2.1.  Against CEPIJ3Wa' budget:
Studies on craft textile production (FRIDA) and reorganization of
CEPI (SODI);
advisors to SMEs (CEGIR) and the position of Technical Director of
CEPI (SODI);
implementation of the CEPI reorganization (SODI);
audit of CEPI accounts (Cabinet SEC DIARRA).
2.2   AUarinst  gEPIZ(b) bud2et:
-    CEPI operations (office supplies, equipment and furniture; staff
incentives; insurance; etc.);
various types of equipment (vehicles, PCs, photocopiers,
duplicator).
2.3 Against interest rate differential:
-    Funding for the Participation and Guarantee Fund (FPG) by
allocation of proportion (5 percent) of interest (at 12 percent)
earned on IDA subloans to artisans, SMEs and ULB.
To summarize, total project disbursements under these headings
were as follows (according to our own records, and subject to
errors and omissions):
CEPI/3(a): US$587,876.20 (date of last payment - Nov. 6, 1987).
CEPIZ3(b): US$492,219.05 (date of last payment - Oct. 11, 1988).
-  ~FP  (FnZding):  CFAF 6,877,549.75 (dates of disbursements -
December 14, 1982, November 16, 1983, June 6, 1984, February 15,
1985 and November 6, 1985). [Source: SRIFI, BDM, Bamako]
2.4 On the subject of the FPG, it should be noted that as long ago as
December 1985 the authorities committed themselves to setting up
this mechanism formally (enactment of the enabling legal
instruments). Regrettably, however, it does not exist legally,
although provision was made for it in CEPI's own constitutive
instruments and although it has been funded from the proceeds of
interest differentials on IDA subloans to final beneficiaries. In
the circumstances, the FPG has not been able to operate and the
funds placed to its credit have been used temporarily by CEPI for
other purposes (its operating costs).
In any event, it is proposed at present to set up a Malian
Investment Guarantee Fund (FOGIM). This being so, and because of
other considerations, it is felt that CEPI's FPG should be reduced



- 36 -
simply to a Participation Fund, and the new order of business will
therefore be to endow CEPI with such a facility.
3.          CEPI has had an advantageous working relationship with IDA since
1978, and it was the latter which financed the first thorough study of Mali's
artisanal sector. The findings obtained through this study provided the basis
on which SERVULART, the extension service agency for artisans, was founded.
In addition, IDA contributed to the strengthening of CEPI.
In previous evaluation reports, we have always emphasized the
vital importance that IDA technical assistance has had for CEPI. Today, it is
no exaggeration to attribute the present effectiveness -- and, indeed, the
survival -- of CEPI to the consistency and reliability of this assistance.
Our performance racord in investment project appraisal, assisting private-
sector promoters in setting up businesses, and advising existing enterprises
is in very large measure a result of the benefits flowing from IDA Credit
Agreement 986-MHI, signed on May 23, 1980. Such support will always be
necessary to an institution like CEPI, which -- it should not be forgotten --
is a government agency with the general, public mission of promoting
productive ideas and investment projects and the specific mission of providing
project consulting and design services.
It follows from this that, like any educational or university
institution, or even a research institute, CEPI should always be able to rely
on a direct, appropriate and substantial subsidy from the authorities or on
technical assistance similar to that made available under Credit 986-MLI.
Furthermore, given the nature of the missions entrusted to CEPI, we continue
to maintain that it would be foolhardy to expect it, or an agency like it, to
show its own financial rate of return.
4.          We have no criticisms of IDA Credit Agreement 986-MLI to put
forward. However, if there were to be a reprise of the assistance we have
received, we would suggest that it be more financial than technical and that
it take the following form:
4.1   A financial comonent providing for:
-     adequate funding of CEPI's Participation Fund;
-     funding to cover the cost of setting up a pipeline of project
ideas and prefeasibility studies, sector studies, etc. -- all
these being materials required for the establishment of a real
data bank;
-     funding of individual scholarships for training courses and in-
service traineeships for CEPI staff and some promoters and
entrepreneurs;
-     funding for specific travel and study costs;



- 37 -
partial funding of CEPI operating expenses, including
implementation of appropriate investments and incentive
arrangements for staff.
4.2 A technical assistance component providing in particular for:
-    access to (and therefore financing of) the short-, medium- and
long-term services of both expatriate and domestic consultants
required to ensure the proper functioning of CEPI. These services
should be focused on helping the agency to: keep up with those
changes in the domestic market that will be the subject of its
study and evaluation projects; and equip it better to provide
high-quality services for all types of business promoters,
investors as well as company executives.
El: These suggestions can be put in more detailed form (and
supported with figures) if need be.
__. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR ARTISANS AND SMALL-ENTREPRENEURS
1.          It is worthwhile noting at the outset that it was the Comite de
Promotlon de l'Artisanat -- an informal consultative body consisting of
representatives of all ministerial departments with interests or
responsibilities in promoting the artisan sector -- which gave CEPI its
mandate to monitor and coordinate implementation of the project component
calling for the setting up of SERVULART (Service de Vulgarlsation Artisanale).
Therefore, on a provisional basis and until such time as a national extension
service agency could be established, CEPI in May 1982 began its participation
in the execution of this project component.
SERVULART was intended to serve as a channel that would target IDA
assistance on the following two objectives:
(a)   to demonstrate that it was possible to promote the artisan sector
in Mali and to identify the ways and means of doing so;
(b)   subsequently, on the basis of the experience acquired, to set up
an entity with the specific mandate to contend with the problems
affecting this sector, including: formulation of a national
policy for it; and coordination of currsnt and future action
programs affecting it.
The first of those two objectives was accomplished, but the second
remains pending.
2.          It took longer than expected to carry out the first objective, and
then only after investment of very considerable human and financial resources
in the task. Although a 30-month period was initially projected as being
required for both objectives, almost 80 months -- i.e. more than six years,
instead of two and a half -- were needed to achieve, and then with difficulty,
merely the first of them.



- 38 -
The 18-month prolongation that was to have begun in January 1985
did not start running until June 1987, a lapse of time that was taken up in
negotiating financing for such programs as training for 30 weavers, building
of the FOGESI and MEMASI communal workshops, etc.
The experience gained was very valuable and advantage should be
taken of it as soon as possible to establish the country's permanent extension
service agency for artisans (the second objective, not yet achieved because
subordinated to completion of the first and the results it would produce).
Considerable human and financial resources were put into what has
been achieved so far: the expatriate master artisans, and particularly their
Malian counterparts, gave themselves to the program with dedication, while IDA
financed numerous goods and services (in the categories consultants/experts
and miscellaneous expenditure):
2.1   SERVULART/3(a) Budget:
-     preliminary studies (AFCOPA);
-     project execution (AFCOPA/CEPI);
-     auditing (Cabinet SEC DIARRA).
2.2 SERVULART/4(b) Budget:
-     miscellaneous equipment (vehicles; auto and mechanical
repair shop, carpenter shop, forge, looms; office equipment
and furniture; etc.)
-    project monitoring and coordination.
Disbursement figures (subject to errors and omissions) are
estimated by us to have been as follows:
SERVUIART/4(a):  US$1,060,911.45 (date of last disbursement:
November 22, 1987);
-     SERVULART/4(b):  US$132,911.32 (date of last disbursement:
October 11, 1983).
2.3   All time projections for execution of the active phase of
SERVULART were either overrun or rewritten. Initially, from Nay 1982 to May
1983, this phase was the entire responsibility of AFCOPA (Association
frangaise de formatlon, coop6ratlon, promotion et animation d'entreprise),
while subseouently from May 1983 to December 1987, it was the joint
responsibility of CEPI and AFCOPA.
In reality, the execution phase continues to this very day, thanks
to the commitment and dedication of the project coordinator and his team, all
staff members of CEPI. Getting SERVULART onto its feet required more
resources than were foreseen, a fact that can be justified in hindsight, given



- 39 -
the diversity and complexity of the difficulties encountered in delivering
training and advise to artisans in different trade groups.
Moreover, wasn't the purpose of SERVULART, as a pilot project,
just that, to bring difficulties to light and find the solutions to them? Are
not those solutions in fact the very ways and means of best promoting the
small trades sector? Since the answers to both these questions are in the
affirmative, the changes through which SERVULART went must be regarded as
acceptable, normal and useful.
3.          SERVULART was limited to two localities (Segou and Sikasso) and to
four groups of tradesmen (weavers and auto mechanics at Sdgou; blacksmiths and
metal workers at Sikasso). It resulted in:
-     further training of over one hundred artisans in the four trades
mentioned;
-     the creation of associations of artisans (KOLEBA TON, MEMASI and
FOGESI);
i     the commencement of work on the construction of two communal
workshops, for MEMASI and FOGESI.
These results are valuable ones and, cost what it may, they must
be consolidated or be obliterated by the effect of the numerous adverse
factors specific to this particular environment, the trades themselves, and
the groups of artisans who work in them. Since these results were achieved
only with great personal and financial effort, haste should be made to
consolidate them, ensure that they become permanent, and take all possible
advantage of them by now setting up the permanent extension services agency
for the trades sector that was initially to be created through the SERVULART
program.
However appreciable they are, these results could all the same
have been on a much greater scale if SERVULART had not had to contend with a
variety of problems on a number of fronts simultaneously:
3.1   Problems with the French consultant. AFCOPA:  Shortcomings in both
the qualifications and the performance of some of the AFCOPA
advisors and instructors had a significant effect on the history
of the project.
3.2   Problems with the Malian authorities:  Had it not been for the
intricate and time-consuming nature of the bureaucratic procedures
which had to be gone through, and the unhelpful attitude
demonstrated by some civil servants, the results achieved through
this project component would doubtless have been more definitive.
3.3   Problems within trades:  The problems specific to each group of
tradesmen explain SERVULART's performance in several instances.
For example, despite all its efforts, SERVULART was unable to
finalize the regrouping (assignment and equipping) of apprentice



- 40 -
mechanics, who were finally not placed where they could work under
the supervision of their instructing master tradesmen. On the
other hand, the weavers' cooperative (KOLEBA TON) is a success, of
which SERVULART is even proud. The cooperatives set up by the
carpenters and blacksmiths (MEMASI and FOGESI) are affected by
internal dissensions which interfere with their progress.
3.4 Problems with the artisans themselves: The perception which
certain artisans had of SERVULART's assistance policy, as well as
their reactions to its implementation, certainly made
accomplishment of the project mission more difficult. This group
expected everything from SERVULART, without any counterpart
contribution from themselves; for instance, work on the
construction of the two communal workshops at Sikasso remains
incomplete to this day, alttough the necessary financing was
almost all guaranteed under cooperation arrangements with France.
Having to contend with these problems and to resolve some of them
has provided SERVULART with solid lessons and experience which give it a
privileged position as an actor in promoting the artisan trades sector in
Hali.
4.          The assistance which IDA provided for SERVULART cannot be
criticized. The few errors and/or shortcomings that presented themselves here
and there were obviously a matter of either the concept underlying SERVWLART
or the way it was put into effect.
If there is to be a new phase of IDA assistance, the focus should
be on creating and getting into operation the permanent Malian extension
services agency for artisans and tradesmen which was proposed at the very
beginning -- in other words, on a SERVULART that will be reborn from its own
ashes.
Bamako, November 30, 1988
CEPI
PER/s/S.S. DIANE
Director General (Acting)



- 41 -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR IPGP
1.          Objeetive of this nrolect comgonent
Under the terms of the project IPGP, in conjunction with CEPI, was
to design and implement a basic management training program for small
entrepreneurs. To this end, provision was made for the services for one year
of a consultant, who was to develop the detailed curriculum (the content of
which had been agreed upon with CEPI, the Chamber of Commerce and a specialist
attached to the Education Project) and to monitor its correct implementation
in the initial phase.
The courses making up the curriculum were to be taught by Malian
staff members of IPGP and given part-time over periods of four to six weeks.
As to financing for the program, this was to be supported by contributions
from participants once the initial start-up period was over.
2.          Execution of this cormonent
IPGP staff, with assistance from the consultant retained by the
agency, engaged in a number of activities for the purpose of SME promotion.
These activities were:
-     SurveM s of SMEs: Focused on SME needs and concerns, these
exercises generated data needed as input in the formulation of
training programs.
-     Design of trainin8g rograms and methods:  These programs were
designed to form a five-cycle progression:
(a)   management training for SHE supervisors (in three modules:
introductory management, understanding an operating account,
and cost accounting);
(b)   management practices and management training for artisans;
(c)   training for management trainers;
(d)   management training for now diploma holders;
(e)   training for SME supervisors in problems of accountability.
Training activities:  Action here centered mainly on the
organization of seminars, through which, in 1986, 650 days of
training were provided. In that year, all IPGP activities
resulted in a total of 977 days of training.
Training outreach: In order to provide ongoing advanced training
for its own staff, IPGP issued them with a paper on the promotion
of training and the use of group work, and with a set of case
studies to serve as models.



- 42 -
Monitoring of training within se1eAted SMEs: Seminars were
followed by visits to some SME8, as a means of helping them to
introduce and apply the methods and techniques taught.
Advanced training for IPGP staff resnonsible for the SME
d,evylopmt pr-ogram: Regarding the delay in this area, the
consultant's mission lasted longer than foreseen, for 15 months
instead of the 12 originally projected. In addition, the mission
began late, mainly because of difficulties in recruiting a
consultant and the tardiness with which the necessary funds were
made available.



- 43 -
E. gORgWJ== UNIT
The Project Appraisal Report proposed that a coordinator be chosen
from within the Department of Planning and assigned the responsibility for
ensuring that the various project components were well managed and properly
coordinated. The various institutions involved in the project would submit
their progress reports on project execution (activities, finances) to him, and
he would also undertake or subcontract for any studies likely to contribute to
the success of project execution, assist local institutions and, if necesstry,
provide supplementary help. An amount of US$65,000 was allocated from Credit
proceeds to cover costs incurred in the coordination process itself, operating
and equipment costs, and expenses of conducting studies, (while the Government
was to pay staffing and related costs).
The coordination function was carried out by one resource person
(a technical adviser to the Ministry of Planning) until July 1982, at which
point he was replaced by an entity responsible for the supervision of another
IDA project, namely the Coordination Unit for the Public Sector Economic
Management Strengthening Project (Executive Order 82-19/PRN of July 5, 1982,
Decree No. 149/PG-RN of July 5, 1982, and Rule No. 3836/MP-CAB of August 13,
1984).
Although the Project Appraisal Report also proposed the creation
of a Coordination Unit to supervise the project, the Credit Agreement itself,
as signed on MEy 23, 1980, merely mentions the appointment of a coordinator
within the Department of Planning, to be responsible for the coordination of a
complex project involving several ministerial departments. In the
institutional sense the Coordination Unit clearly did valuable work in
facilitating implementation of the various project components. Among the
tasks assigned to it, the following particularly influenced the execution
process:
-    promotion and monitoring of project activities;
-    provision of a channel for exchanges of information among those
responsible for the various components;
-     adherence to the administrative and financial procedures detailed
in the Credit Agreement;
-     centralization of project accounts, correspondence and related
documentation;
-    presentation of disbursement applications in the manner prescribed
by IDA guidelines;
-    presentation of proposals to the Government regarding allocation
of unallocated Credit proceeds or, when necessary, regarding
reallocations.
The Unit was instrumental not only in introducing the first
amendment to the original Credit Agreement, which provided for the opening of



- 44 -
a Special Account with the Central Bank of Mali, but also in securing
agreement to the various reallocations of Credit proceeds and obtaining
postponements of the project closing date.
Material and financial assistance made available to the
Coordination Unit totaled US$390,199.57, which was used to finance:
(a)   consultants' and experts' serviges for public enterprises (cement
sector, Development Bank of Mali, the Savings Study);
(b)   other e32enditures, incurred for training (banking sector and
Civil Service), purchases of equipment, and a proportion of Unit
operation costs.



- 45 -
F. COWGI ON
The characteristics of MalL's industrial sector remain unchanged:
coexistence of a limited modern sector (public enterprises, small and medium
private enterprises) and an active traditional sector employing more than
200,000 artisans.  Since Credit Agreement 986-NLI was signed, several
government-owned industrial concerns have been dismantled or are in the
process of being dismmatled, which has resulted in a lowering of value added
in the public sector and the dismissal and subsequent unemployment of several
thousand individuals.
As for the traditional or informal sector, it remains poorly
equipped and without the kind of access to the financial system that would
enable it to provide Itself with both equipment and working capital.
Nevertheless, it is a very significant source of employment. A high
proportion of credit, if not virtually all of it, is allocated to transactions
with the exterior and the related marketing campaign. Such credit to the
economy is generally granted to cover its short-term needs, so that access to
bank credit for private or productive investment projects is restricted, if
not almost entirely lacking.
If the scarcity, even complete absence, of credit facilities for
the private industrial sector (SEEs) and the traditional or informal sector is
to be mitigated, a new line of credit should be made available that would
allow the financing, using the financial system as intermediary, of:
-    sound investment projects promoted by the private sector;
-    an organization with the dual mission of training and equipping
artisans.
The experience acquired through the SERVULART program could be
extended to other administrative regions in Mali which possess clear artisanal
potential. On this score, it should be recalled that the key to the
alleviation of urban unemployment lies in organization and development of the
informal sector.



- 46 -
PART I I I



RDUSRIAL DEOPMNT PROJECT, CREDIT ge8 muL
MOJECT COULETN REPORT
ATED  UN  CEITS
YEAR
CRUMT                           PU1"OSE                         OF APPROVAL        STATUS                            COWEnTS
CEDT 1408 muL                   Modification of                     1994         Being implnosted                    Chngoes In world oil prices
ALCOHOL 8IOMASS                 Stribals DostillIry                              with difficultieo                   and Insufficiont availabilt
loeal suger ctne force reas l
of tho project
PUIBlLIC ENTERPRISE
SECOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT         Improvo PE sector performance,     1S88         Fi rat trnnche                      No major probleos
CREOIT 1907 MLt                                                                  disbured
INSTtTUTt*AL DEVELOPM           Advice public authorities on chas
PROJECT, CREDIT 193 IUL         In leal system and gov. polileos   1983



- 48-                          TABLE B
MALI
INDUSTRIAL DEYELOPHENT PROJECT CREDIT 986 MLI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SCHEDULE OF ACTUAL VS ESSTDMAST CUMULATIVE
DISIURSEMENTS
in mill. US Dollar
APPPAISAL ESTIK.    ACTUAL CUMUL.
FISCAL YEAR                      CUMULATIYE         DISIWRSEMENTS    2 of ACTUAL    2 of TOTAL
1981
July - September    1980              -                     0.23         -               2.9z
October - December  1980              -                     0.41         -               5.12
January - March      1981            0.81                   0.54        66.22            6.72
April - June         1981            1.33                   0.66        49.42            8.22
1982
July - September    1981             1.79                   0.67        37.52            8.4Z
October - December  1981             2.34                   0.72        30.62            9.OZ
January - March      1982            2.94                   0.76        25.92            9.52
April - June         1982             3.54                  1.11        31.32           13.82
1983
July - September    1962             4.22                   1.12        26.42           13.92
October - December  1982             4.97                   1.14        23.O           14.32
January - March      1983            5.74                   1.25        21.72           15.6Z
April - June         1983             6.54                  1.30         19.92          16.32
1984
July - September    1983             6.90                   1.56        22.72           19.52
October - December  1983              7.25                  1.63        22.52           20.42
January - March      1984            7.50                   2.49        33.12           31.12
April - June         1984             7.75                  2.62        33.82           32.82
1985
July - September    1984             7.90                   2.75        34.82           34.32
October - December  1984             8.00                   3.27        40.9?           40.9?
January - March      1985              -                    3.38         -              42.22
April - June         1985              -                    3.68          -             46.02
1986
July - September    1985               -                    3.96         -              49.52
October - December  1985               -                    4.40         -              55.02
January - March      1986              -                    4.92         -              61.5
April   June         1986              -                    5.17          -             64.72
1987
July - September    1986              -                     5.36         -              66.92
October - December  1986               -                    5.52         -              69.02
January - March      1987              -                    6.47         -              80.92
April - June         1987              -                    6.75          -             84.32
1988
July - September    1987               -                    7.06         -              88.22
October - December  1987              -                     7.18         -              89.82
January - March      1988              -                    7.45         -              93.22
April - June         1988              -                    7.51         -              93.82
1989
July - September    1988              -                     7.55         -              94.42
October - December  1988              -                     7.97         -              99.72



o                                      
o                                     2; m   1;5-;4-:           21      
:;l0;I  ;t ;t ;t;I                         :\       iSl     :S ;S  :B s    I.
.            3.g tttt           's21b   _  "
*     |         a         a             a3wb4t1  ;*I;@                          ,"|       "j
_ ~     u.gr!~ . |                   I      ,XX" |**P*P*X"**5                           [  f
ga    ii  ::8@m            v~ t          i       i  |                                 I f                           |*ib| |1 
_    ~------    --- --    --------_                 ____________
ib~~~bbub~                6q



- 50 -                         TABLE D
MALI
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 986 - MLI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1. MISSION DATA
Month/    N- 0of     Ne of                       Date of
Year      Weeks      Persons    Manweeks         Reoort
Identification       8/77       2           4            8           9116177
Preparation          4178       1.5         2            3           7109178
Preappraisal         8/78       2           1            2           9124178
Appraisal           II178       2           4            a          12129/78
Total                      7.5                     21
Supervision I        7/80        .5         2            1              7/80
Supervision II       3181       1.5         2            3              4/81
Supervision III    12/81        2           3            6              2/82
Supervision IV       3182       1.5         2            3              4182
Supervision V        6182       1           2            2              7/82
Supervision VI      10182       1           2            2             11/82
Supervision VII      2/83       1.5         2            3              3183
Supervision VIII    7)83        1.5         1            1.5            8/83
Supervision IX       9/83       2           1            2             10/83
Supervision X        4185       1.5         1            1.5            5/85
Supervision XI      11185       1           1            1             12185
Supervision XII      4/86       1           1            1              5/86
Supervision XIII   10186        2           1            2             11/86
Supervision XIV      3187       1           1            1              4/87
Completion           1188       1           1            1              1/88
Total                     20.0                     32.0
data
-- STAFF INPUT
(Man-W-eeks)
FY          78   79  80  8a   82   83   84  8S  8s   87  88   89   Total
Preparation    30.6 28.0   -    -    -    -        -                           68.8
Appesisal           43.6 6         -       -    -       -    -       -    -    49.8
Negotiations             10.6    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    10.6
Supervisson               4.6 12.9 18.7 16.7  8.6 10.8  8.2  8.4  4.3  3.4   96.t
Total        30.8 89.8 21.1 12.9 18.7 18.7  6.8 10.8  0.2  6 .4  4.3  3.4   213.3
May 30, 1989
PCR/MC



