Documrent of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RqW No. P-2701-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 6, 1980
This deammest ha a regkieed 4WI.kbWle and may be nee by lelInuol  .the eufeimne of
their eSe   *he. It seatemir m ay ne eewue beeei withet WendBeak udule _



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -    Malian Franc (MF)
MF 1 million       -    US$2,273
US$1                    N HF 440
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCM       -  Banque Centrale de Mali
BDM       -  Banque de Developpement du Mali
BIAO      -  Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale
BMCD      -  Banque Malienne de Credits et de Depots
CEAO      -  Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CEPI      -  Cente d'Etude et de Promotion Industrielles
ECOWAS    -  Economic Community of West African States
EEC       -  European Economic Community
FED       -  Fonds Europeen de Development
ILO       -  International Labor Office  -
IPGP      -  Institut de Productivite et de Gestion Previsionnelle
SCAER     -  Service des Credits Agricoles et des Equipements Ruraux
ULB       -  Union Laitiere de Bamako
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF    -  United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO     -  United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Republic of Mali
Amount:         US$8.0 million
Terms:          Standard
Relending       Government would onlend US$5.6 million as follows:  (i) a
Terms:         US$3.5 million line of credit to the Central Bank at an
interest rate of 2.0 percent p.a. plus a 0.5 percent fee for
exchange risk. The Central Bank would onlend the funds to
Mali's three commercial banks under a rediscount system with
amortization schedules determined on a project-by-project basis
and an 8 percent interest rate plus the fee for exchange risk.
The commercial banks would onlend the funds to the final
borrower at a 12 percent interest rate including the fee for
exchange risk, plus a commitment fee of one percent. The terms
of the subloans would vary between thirty months and fifteen
years; (ii) US$2.1 million would be onlent through the Central
Bank and the banking system to Union Laitiere de Bamako on the
same terms as the line of credit, including a 12 percent final
lending rate plus commitment fee. The loan would have a term
of twelve years including four years of grace. The remaining
US$2.4 million represents the cost of training and technical
assistance which would be retained by Government.
Project         The project would establish the first comprehensi-ve program
Description:  of financial and technical assistance for Mali's private
entrepreneurs and artisans and would undertake a pilot
rehabilitation project in the state enterprise sector. It
would consist of: (a) a US$3.5 million line of credit and
a comprehensive technical assistance and institution building
program for the Malian private industrial and traditional
sector, and (b) the rehabilitation and expansion of Union
Laitiere de Bamako (ULB).
Project Risk:  There are no significant project risks, although hesitation
on the part of modern institutions to assist the traditional
artisan community could affect project performance. However,
assistance to artisans has been designed to minimize the
possibility that available assistance might not reach that
community.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
Estimated Costs:
Local       Foreign       Taxes      Total
--------------US$ million--------------
Line of Credit                         1.1         3.3          0.2           4.6
Credit to ULB                          1.2         1.4          0.2          2.8
Supplies, Equipment, Vehicles          0.1         0.2          0.0          0.3
Technical Assistance and Training   0.5            1.4          0.1           2.0
Export Craft Development Fund          0.1          -            -           0.1
Operating Costs                        1.2          -            -            1.2
Assistance to Institutions              -          0.1           -           0.1
Total Project Costs                  4.2         6.4          0.5         11.1
Financing Plan:  The US$8.0 million IDA credit would cover all foreign
exchange costs except for US$185,000 that constitute ULB
working capital requirements in foreign exchange. It would
cover US$1.7 million or 40 percent of local costs: US$240,000
for the line of credit, US$990,000 for construction, equipment
and technical assistance to ULB and US$500,000 for technical
assistance and institution-building. Government, ULB, CEPI,
the commercial banks, entrepeneurs and other local sources
wgould provide the balance.
Other Local
Sources           CEPI
GOVERN-      and         Participation
IDA   ULB    MENT   Entrepreneurs         Fund        Banks  Total
---------------------(US$ million)-------------------
Line of Credit             3.5    -       -          1.1               -           -       4.6
Credit ULB                 2.1   0.1    0.4                            -          0.2      2.8
Supplies, equipment,
vehicles                  0.3    -      0.0          -                            -       0.3
Technical Assistance
and training             1.9   0.0    0.1           -                -          0.0     2.0
Export Craft Development 0.1    -         -           -               0.0          -       0.1
Fund Operating Costs        -     -      0.8          -                -          0.4      1.2
Contingencies              0.1    -       -           -                -           -     -0.1
Total                  8.0   0.1    1.3          1.1             0.0         0.6    11.1



- iii -
EstiWated Disbursements:
Fiscal Year      Annual      Cumulative
US$ million
1981           2.24          2.24
1982           2.63          4.87
1983           2.28          7.15
1984           0.75          8.00
Economic R8te        A rate of return has been calculated on the ULB
of Rjigra:'        rehabilitation and expansion component, and it
exceeds 33 percent.
ARprai.a1.  e,Reort:   No. 2466a - MLI






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of US$8 million on standard IDA terms to the
Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed industrial sector development
project.  US$3.5 million of the proceeds of the credit would be relent through
the Central Bank and the banking system to private extrepeneurs at a minimum
12 percent interest rate plus a commitment fee of one percent. The terms
would vary from thirty months to fifteen years. A further US$2.1 million
would be onlent, also through the Central Bank, to Union Laitiere de Bamako on
similar conditions, but with a term of twelve years, including four years of
grace. The remaining US$2.4 million would help Government finance the cost of
technical assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled an "Economic Memorandum on Mali" (1134a-MLI) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 5, 1978. The following
paragraphs are based on that report and the findings of subsequent staff
visits. Country data are contained in Annex I.
3.        With a population of about 6.3 million and a per capita GNP of
US$120 in 1978 Mali is one of the poorest countries of Africa and among the 29
least developed countries identified by the United Nations. It is handicapped
by serious obstacles to development. The extreme variability of rainfall
causes sharp fluctuations in crop and livestock production. Access to foreign
markets is made difficult by its landlocked position and the long distances -
more than 1000 km - to the nearest seaports, Abidjan and Dakar. Development
is also constrained by the substantial internal distances (the country covers
an area of 1.24 million km2), the shortage of skilled manpower and the
narrow domestic market for industrial products. About 90 percent of the popu-
lation depends for a livelihood on crop farming, animal husbandry, forestry
and fishing. Exports consist almost entirely of agricultural commodities and
livestock.
4.        Over the fifteen years following independence, economic growth
has kept ahead of the growth of population. Between 1960-76, per capita
GDP in real terms increased at an average annual rate of 1.5 percent, even
though droughts caused declines in real income in 1969 and 1973-74, as
well as in 1978. This growth has occurred despite the further aggravation
of Mali's problems in the early 1970s by international inflation, excessive
credit expansion and growing budget and balance of payments deficits. The
Government has initiated action to redress major financial imbalances through



- 2 -
credit restraint, through some reduction of the subsidy element in the prices
of essential consumer goods, fertilizers and agricultural equipment, and
through improved tax collection. Good crop seasons in 1975, 1976 and 1977
facilitated the implementation of these measures and contributed to an average
annual growth rate for the 1972-78 period of 4 percent per year, even with a
decline of .aimost 3 percent in 1978 resulting from a return of drought condi-
tions.  Real growth in 1979 is again expected to be relatively modest.
The Drought Years: 1972-1974
5.        All economic sectors were affected in varying degrees by the drought
of 1972-1974, and the recovery of these sectors has followed different pat-
terns.  The loss of human life resulting from the drought is not fully known,
but it was particularly severe among nomadic groups and especially the young
and elderly.  The cattle herd, estimated 5.5 million head in 1971, was reduced
by 15 to 20 percent.
6.        In an effort to assure access by consumers to essential commodities,
the Government resorted to large imports of cereals when domestic output fell
and to consumer subsidies in the face of rising costs of imported and locally
manufactured goods. Cereal imports -- only partly financed by external aid --
shot up from 64,000 tons in 1972 to 235,000 tons in 1974, and the resource gap
widened to nearly one-third of GDP in 1974. To finance losses incurred by
state enterprises in charge of imports and sales of subsidized goods, growing
amounts of bank credit were used. The GDP deflator, reflecting subsidization
through officially controlled prices, increased at an annual rate of only
5-6 percent between 1970 and 1974, although prices in the open market rose
twice as fast after the onset of the drought. Mali's foreign exchange
position worsened during these years. Because supplies of exports were
restricted by the drought, export receipts did not increase as much as
export prices. Efforts to suppress domestic price rises, particularly of
foodstuffs, probably depressed agricultural production and exacerbated the
need for further cereal imports. Public deficits created by consumer
subsidies were also translated into large external deficits. These years
not only imposed great human suffering on much of the Malian population,
but they also left a legacy of debt for Mali's public finances.
Uneven Recovery
7.        Normal rainfall resumed in 1975, and real GDP increased by 12.7,
9.0 and 7.4 percent respectively for the following three years. The resource
gap was reduced from one-third of GDP in 1974 to 18 percent of GDP in 1978,
although over the same period, net foreign assets declined from minus MF 89.7
billion to minus MF 100.8 billion (US$223 million). This increase in foreign
liabilities, largely to the French treasury on operations account, was caused
by continuing budgetary deficits, albeit on a diminishing basis. The Govern-
ment's wage bill increased because of cost of living adjustments and the
policy of Government to serve as employer of last resort of nationals who
complete secondary or higher education. On the other hand, current revenues
did increase significantly as a result of efforts to improve tax collection,
and the consolidated budget deficit decreased from MF 10.2 billion in 1975 to
MF 6.6 billion in 1977, or about 14 percent of total Government revenues.  In



- 3 -
1978, however, expenditures grew twice as fast as revenue, and the deficit for
the consolidated budget amounted to MF 8.8 billion, or 17 percent of revenues.
In 1979, the budget deficit may again reach MF 10 billion (about 18 percent of
revenues), largely as a result of campaign expenditures financed by Government.
8.        In 1976 and 1977, improvement in GDP growth continued, largely as
a result of a good harvests but also because of continued growth in the
secondary sector. Growth was abruptly halted in 1978, with a 3 percent
decline in real GDP, but regained the level of previous years in 1979.
9.        Credit expansion in 1976 was reduced sharply from 1975 levels, with
an overall increase in outstanding indebtedness of the economy to deposit
banks amounting to about 20 percent, as compared with 47 percent growth rate
in 1975. However, much of what is included under "credit to the economy" in
effect finances operating losses of public enterprises. (When substantial
improvements in indebtedness have taken place, such as in 1976/77, they have
largely been attributable to the export earnings of SOMIEX, the state export
monopoly.) During 1978, credit to the economy grew by nearly 25 percent,
mainly because of a sharp increase in seasonal credit to finance the larger
1978/79 crop, and also because of the substantial rise in non-seasonal credit
to the commercial and industrial sectors, the former largely for increased
import financing, and the latter to the state enterprise sector, often to
finance operating losses.
10.       At the beginning of 1977 the Central Bank discount rate was raised
from 3.5 to 6.0 percent with corresponding increases in the whole set of
borrowing and lending rates of deposit banks. A new monetary agreement was
signed with France in mid-1977, which aims at bringing about the conditions
requisite for Mali's membership in the West Africa Monetary Union by 1982.
It imposes a very restrictive credit policy on the operations of the Central
Bank, notably in establishing more stringent conditions on rediscount faci-
lities, thereby restricting the financing of operating losses of state enter-
prises, one of the most persistent drains on Mali's economy. A new banking
law provides for legal minimum cash reserve and liquidity ratios for com-
mercial banks.
11.       The 1978 current account balance -- excluding private investment and
grants -- registered a substantial decline compared to 1977, moving from a
deficit of US$34.1 million to one of US$129.0 million. In large part this
huge deficit resulted from spurts in imports of cereals, non-food consumer
goods, petroleum and capital goods, and from a 25 percent drop in the value
of cotton exports -- due mainly to a fall in world cotton prices. On the
capital account, net long-term capital flows increased by US$28 million
in 1978, to a level of US$68.6 million, or almost six-fold since 1975, so that
the overall deficit was only US$9.3 million, as compared with US$51.6 million
in 1975. Most of the deficit was financed by increases in the operations
account with the French Treasury, bringing it to a balance of MF 90.2 billion
by September 1979.
Foreign capital and debt
12.       Public investment is mainly financed by foreign aid.  During most
of the sixties the USSR and the People's Republic of China were the most
important aid donors. At the end of 1975, they held in roughly equal pro-
portions nearly 57 percent of Mali's external public debt disbursed and



outstanding. Gross disbursements (grants and loans) from DAC sources in-
creased from US$24 million in 1969 to US$127 million in 1974. Roughly 60
percent came from bilateral sources (mainly France, United States, Germany
and Canada). Since the early seventies the amount of public aid received by
Mali has increased very rapidly, rising from about US$5 per capita in 1971 to
roughly US$27 per capita in 1978.
13.       Mali's external public debt outstanding at the end of 1978 (exclud-
ing drawings on the operations account with the French treasury) was US$570.5
million, including an undisbursed amount of US$234.4 million. IDA's share in
the total amount disbursed and outstanding was 19.5 percent. Repayments of
principal and interest due in 1978 would have claimed more than a quarter of
foreign exchange earnings, but actual debt service payments have been small,
about 1 percent in 1978 owing to the rescheduling or de facto suspension since
1970 of Chinese, Russian and some other debts. However, projections indicate
that the actual debt service ratio may go up to about 19 percent by 1980
unless some further rescheduling of debt takes place,which is probable. 1/ In
transactions with the IMF, Mali drew SDR 5.0 million under the 1974 oil
facility and obtained another credit of SDR 3.99 million (in March 1976) under
the 1975 oil facility. In addition, Mali borrowed US$4.6 million from the IMF
trust fund facility in January 1978.
Development prospects
14.       The return of more normal weather conditions in 1975 strengthened
the economy's short run position, at least through 1977. However, the poor
harvest of 1977/78 represented a set-back in Mali's development prospects and,
together with weaknesses in the export crop sector, may have retarded some
necessary improvements in Mali's economic management. In any event, over the
medium and long term Government must address two sets of interrelated objec-
tives. The first is to correct the severe financial imbalances that have
developed over the years, especially since the early seventies; the second
is to accelerate the pace of economic growth.
15.       Government began in 1975 to tackle some of its financial problems
and has been relatively successful in readjusting some key prices to more
realistic levels. Thus, incentives to agricultural production are stronger,
consumer prices more closely reflect economic costs, the burden of subsidies
has been somewhat alleviated and credit expansion has slowed since official
prices to producers and consumers have failed to keep pace with rising costs.
Reform of public enterprises is being undertaken gradually, but much remains
to be done, particularly in the area of cereals marketing. The budget is
still basically unbalanced, but Government is now seriously reconsidering its
employment policy with a view to making it more selective so as to check the
growth of current expenditure.
16.       Prospects for real long-term growth are probably better than in
most other Sahelian countries. Agriculture has considerable potential for
expansion both in the south where rainfall is highest and in the vast inland
1/   In late 1978, the Federal Republic of Germany and Canoda converted
US$92.9 million of outstanding loans into grants.



- 5 -
delta of the Niger river. The river also offers much potential for power
development. Planned investment in new capacity for cotton seed oil extrac-
tion, cotton textiles for export, and in sugar production, together with
increasing crop and livestock production, will eventually strengthen the
balance of payments. Mineral resources (iron ore, phosphates) remain at
present unexploited, but may offer interesting longer term development
possibilities.
17.       The Five-Year Social and Economic Development Plan (1974-1978) gave
priority to agriculture, water and power development, industries processing
agricultural materials, and road transport. The overall size of the invest-
ment program is estimated at MF 543 billion (about US$1.2 billion). Altogether
MF 427 billion of this total was expected to be realized during the plan
period; in mid-1979, total investments realized amounted to MF 254 billion.
The problem is more one of implementation than financing with continuing
delays being encountered in project preparation and execution, particularly at
startup. Project financing, on the other hand, is reasonably well advanced,
with MF 456 billion having been received or firmly committed, of which 92
percent comes from foreign sources. Following revisions to the plan in 1976
and 1977, the period for implementation was extended and priority is currently
being given to food crops, animal husbandry, minor irrigation works and more
efficient manufacturing activities.
18.       Despite the fact that economic performance since the drought has
been largely good, sustained and viable growth in the longer run depends
crucially on investments and policy measures that will strengthen the eco-
nomy's export base, particularly in cash crops.  Mali's capacity to finance
new investment, however, is severely constrained by the limited savings
potential resulting from the extremely low per capita income level, a situa-
tion reflected in the Government's budgetary deficits and further complicated
by serious financial difficulties particularly in the public enterprise
sector. Borrowing on conventional terms would add considerably to the burden
of servicing an already sizeable external debt. External aid, accordingly,
should be on soft terms and should finance, besides foreign exchange outlays,
a significant proportion of local currency costs.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
19.       The proposed credit would be the Association's nineteenth operation
in Mali, which would bring total commitments of IDA funds to US$173.2 million.
US$96.4 million had been disbursed as of November 30, 1979. Of the eighteen
credits already approved, six have been for transport, eight for agriculture,
two for education, one for telecommunications and one for urban development.
Agriculture represents the largest share (48 percent) of past commitments
followed by transportation (41 percent). Experience with ongoing operations
has in general been satisfactory, although delays in startup often affect
early disbursement on projects. However, with the increasing use of the
Project Preparation Facility, we expect the situation to gradually improve as
project startup is accelerated. Notes on the execution of ongoing projects
are set out in Annex II.



-6-
20.       The Bank Group's strategy in Mali is governed by (i) the extreme
poverty, poor health and low level of basic skills of a largely rural popula-
tion, (ii) a harsh natural environment with large fluctuations in the avail-
ability of basic food supplies, and (iii) a landlocked position with long
distances and difficult access to foreign markets. Thus major objectives
of Bank lending would focus on: (a) increasing agricultural production and
stability fluctuations in it; (b) meeting the needs of the rural population in
terms of health, literacy and rural infrastructure; and (c) providing an
adequate transport and communications network. The Bank Group will also
continue the ongoing dialogue with Government on economic policy issues and
options in the framework of economic and sector work.
21.       Major agricultural and rural development projects that the Bank
Group has undertaken cover most of the country's cultivable area and benefit
the majority of farm families, who constitute 90 percent of Mali's population.
Operations in the sector have assisted Mali in developing rice production on
the Niger flood plains for domestic consumption, groundnuts, cotton, kenaf,
rainfed cereals and livestock production. Integrated with the agricultural
aims are improvements in human health conditions, farmers' education and
training of young farmers and rural artisans. In addition, three of the six
projects financed in the transportation sector are directly related to the
rural sector.
22.       In other sectors, education projects focus on providing appropriate
basic and secondary education and vocational training. A recent urban project
provides low-cost replicable urban services for a growing population in
Bamako. In industry, the Bank Group aims at supporting Government efforts to
develop the modern industrial and traditional sectors by providing needed
financial and technical assistance; and supports efforts aimed at improving
performance of public enterprises.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
23.       Mali's industrial sector, which accounts for 10 percent of GDP,
consists of a small modern sector of some 28 large public enterprises and
numerous medium- to small-scale private enterprises, alongside an active
traditional sector of more than two hundred thousand artisans. The public
enterprises, which account for two-thirds of modern sector sales revenues,
process local raw materials, while the small modern private sector engages in
miscellaneous import substitution activities. Food processing and textiles
together represent 60 percent of modern sector sales. Artisanal production
represents two thirds of manufacturing output by amount.
24.       Mali has reasonable potential for industrial expansion.  Among the
primary areas of potential industrial development are processing of agricul-
tural and livestock products, production of agricultural tools and small
equipment, mechanical tools, spare parts and hardware, clay products including
building materials, pottery and tiles, wood products, metal products and metal



- 7 -
recycling, light consumer goods, light chemicals, transport and construction.
Mali's unique textile and decorative crafts can be expected to have export
potential if appropriate assistance is provided. Growth of regional groupings
and markets such as CEAO and ECOWAS to which Mali belongs will contribute to
industrial growth.
25.       The State Enterprise Sector.  Industrial policies have favored
the development of large state-owned enterprises, which today employ over
12,000 people. They are under the supervision of the Ministry of State
Enterprises, which annually reviews financial and production plans. Uniform
accounting standards apply, personnel policies and some procurement activities
are centrally managed. Pay scales are fixed centrally. 85 percent of profits
of each enterprise go directly to Government. Ten percent of the remaining
profit is allocated to company reserves and five percent to a social services
fund for employees. The performance of the enterprises has generally been
poor: as a result of often inexperienced managers, general and financial
management has been weak and project design poor; employment and pricing
policies based on social criteria have made it difficult to realize profits
and, in fact, the great majority of state enterprises have regularly produced
large deficits and have found it necessary to turn to the banking system to
finance working capital requirements and operating losses. Even then, few
of the enterprises have had adequate funds to maintain equipment or build
inventories. The system has served to restrict bank credit for private
productive investment, as banks have concentrated on satisfying the cash
requirements of state enterprises and, ultimately, on replacing funds drawn
from these enterprises either directly by Government action (control of
profits, reserves) or indirectly by non-economic regulatory policies (price
controls, employment policies). However, Government has increasingly focused
on the need to shore up the finances of the state enterprises and, although
social factors continue to guide decision-making, losses have gradually been
reduced, declining from MF 14.5 billion in 1974 to MF 2.5 billion in 1976.
All of this decline is not, however, only due to structural factors, but also
reflects cyclical phenomena, in particular increases in cotton export earnings
by the state trading company. The Bank has been discussing the need for
rationalization of the state enterprise sector and general financial policies
with the authorities for some time in the context of our overall economic
dialogue: the rehabilitation and expansion of the Union Laitiere de Bamako
under the proposed project is a first practical effort to achieve financial
and economic viability in a state enterprise by allowing efficient management
to operate under commercial conditions.
26.       The Private Sector.  Private modern productive enterprises number
at least one hundred and employ well over 2,000 persons. Their lines of
business vary widely, ranging from textiles to foundries to bakeries. In
the past, most of the private modern sector firms tended to be foreign-owned,
but the relative importance of Malian-owned private enterprises has been
increasing. At the same time, Government interest in the private sector
has increased, as Government has come to perceive private, especially local,
capital as a source of new investment. Financial performance in the private
sector has generally been better than in the public sector, although most of
the smaller Malian-owned firms would benefit from technical and management



- 8 -
assistance. However, the sector has suffered from a lack of technical and
management assistance, as well as from credit, which has mainly been directed
to state enterprises (para. 25). The proposed project would help relieve
these bottlenecks by providing a line of credit and technical assistance to
private entrepreneurs.
27.       The Traditional Sector.  Mali's artisan sector has shown vitality
and resilience. Producing low-price goods from local materials with labor-
intensive methods, Mali's artisans provide considerable benefits to the
local population. Textile weavers and spinners represent the major group
of artisans, although the metalwork, machinist, building trades and wood-
working subsectors have grown rapidly. A substantial expansion in produc-
tivity and employment in utilitarian crafts (metalwork, woodworking, building
trade, machinists) should be possible, if they were helped to improve the
organization of their work and to adapt their techniques to the fabrication
and repair of new types of equipment as well as to better access to credit.
The traditional textile and decorative crafts face somewhat different pros-
pects. Although the artisanal products are generally recognized in the local
market to be less expensive and often of better quality than competitive
manufactured goods, the domestic market is largely saturated.  Improved
incomes and employment in this largest group of artisans will depend on
exploitation of the export market. Export development will require provi-
sion of technical assistance to ensure stable supplies of consistently high
quality goods and to organize craft collection and shipment, as well as
working capital, credits and marketing assistance. Modified product designs
will have to be developed with lower unit product costs for these goods to
compete on international markets.
28.       The Financial System.  At present, Mali is not a member of the
West African Monetary Union, although it has agreed to adhere to the financial
regulations and discipline of the Union, with the ultimate goal of joining
it by 1982. Instead, Mali has its own currency, the Malian Franc, convertible
into French Francs at a parity of 1 FF to 100 MF through an operations account
with the French Treasury. It has its own central bank, the Banque Centrale
du Mali (BCM) and three commercial banks operating under the central bank:
Banque de Developpement du Mali (BDM), Banque Malienne de Credits et Depots
(BMCD) and Banque Internationale de l'Afrique Occidentale (BIAO); a Postal
Savings Bank and an agricultural credit institution, Societe du Credit
Agricole et des Equipements Ruraux (SCAER). BDM is Mali's single largest
financial institution, controlling 88 percent of local banking activity.
29.       Although Mali has no formal interest rate regulations, the following
pattern is generally observed: short-term lending rates are 9.5 percent
for state enterprises and vary between 11.5 and 15 percent for private enter-
prises. The equivalent term lending rates are 9 percent and 7.5 percent, the
latter being the interest rate applied to FM 1 billion of KfW lending which
started in 1974 and which represents the only available direct term lending
for non-public enterprises and is now fully committed. Credit has generally
been allocated to satisfy the economy's short term credit requirements, and
state enterprises have been the major borrowers in the credit system. In
1977, they claimed 44 percent of total credit outstanding; Government's share



was 40 percenL. Term credit has been modest, representing only 6 percent of
total outstanding credit in 1977. Most of the term investment requirements of
Government and state enterprises have been met from donor funds or the state
investment budget. The private sector, more dependent on the banking system,
has received little term financing assistance: the proposed project would, in
fact, provide the bulk of new term lending resources available to private
Malian entrepeneurs.
30.       Assistance to Industry.  In 1971, Government, with UNDP/ILO assis-
tance, established Mali's first management training institute, the Institut de
Productivite et de Gestion Professionelle (IPGP), and then, in 1975, with
UNDP/UNIDO help, created Mali's first industrial promotion agency, the Centre
d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle (CEPI). Nevertheless, technical,
promotional and management assistance to private Malian entrepreneurs has
remained inadequate, as the initial efforts of both of these agencies have
focussed on services to the state sector. However, CEPI has recently under-
taken new programs to serve private entrepreneurs and artisans (para. 34), and
the proposed project will encourage and assist CEPI to substantially broaden
its industrial promotion role. Similarly, IPGP is also redirecting its
services towards local enterprises and practical assistance, and it will
undertake, in the context of this project, its first basic skills training
program for small entrepreneurs in coordination with CEPI (para. 43).
31.       Investment Policies.  Government introduced its first investment
code in 1961, revised in 1976. However, eligibility and benefit criteria have
been vague, making the system highly subjective and discretionary. It has
been difficult for potential investors to reliably predict the benefits for
which they will be judged eligible or on which specific criteria they will be
evaluated. In addition, approval procedures have been complicated and pro-
cessing times lengthy. Benefits actually provided under the code have not
compared favorably with those of neighboring countries. By offering greater
advantages to larger investments and by reducing the cost of capital goods
imports, the code has encouraged relatively capital intensive investments.
Investments of less than MF20 million have been excluded from all benefits.
32.       IDA has been discussing these policies with Government, and substan-
tial modifications have already been made. Employment creation and other
efficiency criteria have been introduced, benefits and eligibility criteria
have been clarified, and procedures have been simplified. At the same time
the minimum size of eligible projects has increased from MIF20 million to MF30
million in view of the substantial administrative difficulties involved in
properly monitoring small investments. However, during negotiations Government
agreed that projects below MF 30 million nevertheless will be eligible for
investment code benefits under the same economic criteria that will be applied
to larger projects. Government will review this experience with IDA in
eighteen months with a view to introducing a permanent revision of the
investment code with regard to the size of eligible projects (Section 3.10 and
3.11 Credit Agreement).



- 10 -
Centre d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle (CEPI)
33.       CEPI was established in 1976 as an autonomous public commercial
establishment under the supervision of the Ministry of Industrial Development
and Tourism. To achieve its objective of industrial promotion, CEPI was to:
(i) advise Gov-rnment on industrial policies and perform related studies; (ii)
provide technical assistance and training and possibly investment capital to
Malian entrepreneurs and to help prepare bankable investment projects; and
(iii) to inform and advise possible foreign investors in Mali.
34.       Operations.  CEPI's activities in its first two years focussed on
advisory services to Government and studies of public enterprises, while
the industrial promotion and technical assistance role was largely neglected.
To the extent it took place it was generally directed to public sector enter-
prises. This operating pattern produced financial problems for CEPI, as fees
from services rendered to private entrepreneurs were planned to be a major
source of the agency's income. With new encouragement from Government, IDA
and UNDP, CEPI's management reviewed and revised its priorities in September
1978, placing the focus of CEPI's operations more directly on industrial
promotion and technical assistance among small- and medium-scale private
enterprises. Although economic studies and promotion of large industrial
projects will continue to be part of its activities, CEPI has now initiated
a strong nationwide program to make itself known to Malian entrepreneurs
and to expand its technical assistance services through a new department of
assistance to enterprises. CEPI has also organized a'Temporary Committee for
the Promotion of Artisans, composed of representatives of all relevent public
agencies, to gain support for an expanded program of assistance to Mali's
artisans.
35.       Management.  CEPI's Board is chaired by the Minister of Industrial
Development. The Board, which also includes representatives from various
ministries and the President's office, the General Manager of BDM and the Head
of the Chamber of Commerce, meets only once a year and does not appear to take
a very active interest in CEPI's activities. In June 1977, the then Director
of Industries in the Ministry of Industrial Development was appointed CEPI's
first general manager. He is able and has the necessary background and
experience to competently direct CEPI. The General Manager participates in
Board meetings in a non-voting capacity. CEPI's staff, as of December 1978,
totalled 31 of which 28 were Malians and 3 expatriate advisors. MIalian
professional staff, which numbered 13, is capable but needs additional train-
ing. Under a UNDP grant, initial training sessions for 6 Malian staff at
EEC's Industrial Development Center in Brussels have been organized. Further
training, for which UNDP financing has been obtained, are to be scheduled over
for the next three years. All CEPI's staff have been considered employees
of the Ministry of Industrial Development rather than direct employees of
CEPI. Recruitment, hiring and pay scales, which are extremely low, also have
been controlled by the Ministry.  These arrangements will be modified to
permit CEPI to hire its own staff and offer more competitive salaries (Section
3.06 of the Credit Agreement).



- 11 -
36.       Organization.  At present, CEPI has two departments--project pro-
motion and studies, and administration and accounts. In order to better meet
its industrial promotion objectives, CEPI would establish a third department,
Assistance to Enterprises, to promote and provide technical assistance to
local entrepreneurs, as well as to manage its Guarantee and Equity Participa-
tion Funds (see para. 38 below). The proposed project would provide technical
assistance to help establish the department (see para. 43(b) below). Presently,
CEPI's accounts are audited by a local Commissioner of Accounts whose reviews
do not meet IDA requirements. Annual external audits of CEPI's accounts by an
independent auditing firm acceptable to IDA have been agreed upon (Section
4.01 of Credit Agreement).
37.       Financial Position.  CEPI's authorized capital of FlI 500 million
was subscribed by Government (50%), BDM (20%), BMCD (14.5%), BIAO (14.5%), and
the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (1%). As of December 1978, only FM 140
million of this capital was paid-in, FM 120 million by Government and FM 20
million by BDM.  FI 100 million of the Government payment was earmarked for
the construction of an office building for CEPI and FM 20 million for essential
equipment. A schedule of payment of the balance of Government's share, as
well as those of BDM and the Chamber of Commerce, in 1980 and 1981, has been
drawn up by Government. The first payments under this schedule have already
been received. Neither BMCD nor BIAO are now alloted seats on CEPI's Board,
but will be added as they come forward with their contributions to share
capital. CEPI incurred a net operating deficit of IIF 9 million in 1977 and a
net operating deficit of MF 17 million was expected for 1978. The operating
deficits have been financed out of CEPI's available paid-in capital, MF 20
million. Therefore, by the end of 1978, CEPI had a resource gap of MF 6
million. CEPI's operating outlays in the 1979-82 project period are expected
to total MF 390 million, half of which are expected to be covered by govern-
ment subsidies. Fee income is expected to total more than NF 100 million
through this period, yielding a net operating deficit of MF 95 million.
CEPI's total accumulated resource gap would therefore be MF 120 million. An
agreed program to complete payment of CEPI's outstanding capital should cover
its resource gap and, together with continued improvement in service charge
income as it expands services to enterprises, should stabilize CEPI's finan-
cial position by the end of the project period. CEPI's financial position
will be monitored closely during project implementation and arrangements
reviewed as needed.
38.       Equity Participation and Loan Guarantee Funds.  In order to assist
small IMalian entrepreneurs to establish an adequate equity base for their
industrial projects and to facilitate their access to bank credit, CEPI
has established an Equity Participation Fund and a Loan Guarantee Fund. The
Equity Participation Fund's inter-,ention in a project would be on a minority
basis and limited per project to 5% of the total resources of the Fund. The
Loan Guarantee Fund would guarantee up to 50% of the outstanding loan on a
project and exposure per project would be limited to 20% of the Fund's total
resources. The Fund's total guarantees would initially be limited to two
times its paid-in resources, but would eventually increase to five times the
paid-in resources. The resources to be allocated to these funds have tenta-
ti-vely been fixed at MF 400 million for the Equity Participation Fund and
MF 600 million for the Loan Guarantee Fund. UNDP has agreed to allocate



- 12 -
US$50,000 a year over the next five years towards these targets. In addition,
the Government has decided to allocate to the Loan Guarantee Fund the resources
generated by the interest differential between the cost of the credit line to
the Central Bank and the Central Bank onlending rate for the proposed line of
credit (para. 42).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was identified by a May 1977 mission and was
appraised in November/December 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington
between November 26 and 30, 1979. The Malian delegation was led by H.E.
Robert N'daw, Minister of Plan and Transport. Annex III contains supple-
mentary project data. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 2466b-MLI is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
40.       The proposed project would establish a comprehensive program of
financial and technical assistance for private entrepreneurs and artisans and
would undertake a pilot rehabilitation project in the state enterprise sector.
It would consist of:
(i) support to the Malian private industrial and traditional sector,
including a US$3.5 million line of credit and a comprehensive
institution-building program;
(ii) the rehabilitation and expansion of Union Laitiere de Bamako
(ULB).
Line of Credit
41.       The US$3.5 million line of credit would be made available by Govern-
ment to the Central Bank for eventual use by Mali's three commercial banks
under a rediscount arrangement. The banks would submit projects for financing
under the line of credit, the Central Bank would review the submissions to
ensure adequacy of data and presentation and then forward them to IDA for
consideration. Given the limited local experience in term lending, there
would be no free limit. Private modern and artisanal enterprises would be
eligible for assistance under the line of credit. A minimum of 35 percent
(US$1.225 million) of the credit line would be reserved for loans to artisans
and to small enterprises having fixed assets of less than MF 100 million
(US$230,000), or with an investment cost per job of at most MF 3 million
(US$7,000). The loans would be eligible for coverage by CEPI's Loan Guarantee
Fund to encourage their consideration by banking institutions. The balance of
the line of credit would finance medium-scale projects - this would essen-
tially meet the need for assistance for viable larger projects for which there
at present are no other sources of funds (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement).
All subprojects should demonstrate economic and financial viability. IDA
would reimburse the full amount of the subloans, as long as such reimburse-
ments do not exceed 90 percent of total project cost for artisan and small-
scale projects and 75 percent of total project cost for medium-scale projects.



-13 -
The        -c,-cfr ,e't½ient is estimated to reflect total £oreign exchange costs of
such projects.  Some local costs would therefore be reimbursed in the case of
artisan and small-scale projects.
42.       Government would make available the line of credit to the Central
Bank at an interest rate of 2.0 percent per annium plus a fee of 0.5 percent
for Government assumption of the exchange risk, such fee to be passed on to
the final borrower. The Central Bank would repay Government according
to the IDA amortization schedule. The Centr&l Bank would use these funds to
refinance the three commercial banks under a rediscount system with amortiza-
tion schedules determined on a Orojeet-by-project basis and at an 8 percent
interest rate plus the Government fee for exchange risk. The commercial banks
would in turn lend the funds to the final borrower at a 12 percent interest
rate, including the fee for exchange risk, plus a commitment fee of 1.0
percent. (Inflation has ranged from'6 to 12 percent in recent years, and
forecast inflation rates are about 10 percent.) The terms of the subloans
would range from a minimum of thirty months and a maximum of fifteen years.
Terms are expected to average seven teirs with eighteen months grace.
Out of the 8.5 percent interest rate the Central Bank receives from the
commercial banks, it would take a 1 percent per annum fee for administrative
expenses and would pay Government 2.5 percent per annum. (Section 2.08 of
Project Agreement). The net interest differential (5 percent) resulting from
these transactions would be used for the Guarantee and Participation Funds
(para. 38 and Section 2.10 of Project Agreement). Fuads repayed on the
initial loans made under the line of credit would be channeled into the
Central Bank's term rediscount system, revolving over a period of fifty years
and subject to the IDA amortization schedule. Signing of a subsidiary agree-
ment between Government and the Central Bank specifying these conditions would
be a condition of effectiveness of this ciedit. The Central Bank would issue
instructions to the commercial banks satisfactory to the Association for the
relending of the proceeds of the credit; this would also be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Sections 6.01 (a) and (b) of Credit Agreement and
Section 2.08 of Project Agreement).
Institution-building program
43.       The institution building program for the private modern and tra-
ditional industrial sector would be managed by CEPI, with the exception of
the assistance to the banking system, which would be managed by the Central
Bank. The program has the following components:
(a)  Assistance to Banking System  Twelve man-months of technical
assistance over a two-year period to the Central Bank and the
three commercial banks to develop common acceptable standards
for subproject preparation, appraisal and supervision, and to
become familiar with IDA project authorization and disbursement
procedures.



- 14 -
(b) Support for CEPI 2.5 man-years of technical assistance to
help CEPI establish the new department for assistance to
enterprises, which would be responsible for (i) promoting
new investment proposals and encouraging local businessmen
to undertake productive projects, (ii) coordinating and
channelling management and technical assistance to local
entrepreneurs and prepare applications for banking assist-
ance or for the investment code; (iv) supervising the Equity
Participation and Guarantee Funds, in coordination with the
banks; and (v) overseeing the extension service and the
promotion program to artisans and small entrepreneurs. In
addition, vehicles, equipment and supplies would be provided.
(c) Management Training - One man-year of technical assistance to
IPGP to initiate a basic management training program for small
local entrepreneurs. Materials and equipment would also
be provided. The courses, to be given part-time for 4-6 week
periods, would be taught in local languages and would emphasize
visual techniques and basic skills. The actual training would
be provided by the Malian staff of IPGP, who would also manage
the program.
(d) Extension Service for Artisans and Small Entrepreneurs - A
minimum of seven man-years of technical assistance, and
vehicles, equipment and supplies, would help establish an
extension service offering practical assistance in the field to
Mali's artisans and small entrepreneurs. It would be offered
in a variety of technical subsectors, such as woodworking,
metalwork/blacksmithing, machine maintenance and repair and
light building trades.
(e) Fund for Export Craft Development. US$50,000 of the IDA
credit would be allocated to CEPI for a fund to promote
and develop Malian craft exports. A matching sum, from
UNDP, would be allocated by CEPI to the Fund. The Fund
would finance studies and pilot projects to improve local
crafts production and expand export markets. Projects and
studies costing more than US$10,000 each would require
prior approval of IDA.
44.       Qualified counterparts for all advisors would be appointed.  Govern-
ment would be responsible for the maintenance, operation and replacement of
all equipment provided.
Rehabilitation of Union Laitiere de Bamako (ULB)
45.       Union Laitiere de Bamako was established in 1967 as a wholly
government-owned enterprise. It is Mali's sole producer of pasteurized
milk products. ULB's market area is the city of Bamako, where annual milk
consumption totalled 9.1 million liters in 1977, or 20 liters per capita. By



- 15 -
comparison with the minimum average per capita consumption of 33.3 liters per
annum in rural areas, and the Government's target of 42 liters per capita by
1985, Bamako's milk requirements are far from being satisfied. ULB presently
provides 45% of the milk consumed in Bamako, with the balance provided by
imports and local unprocessed raw milk.
46.       ULB's performance has been quite satisfactory.  Production has
increased at an average annual rate of 21 percent per annum during the last
five years and profitability has been good. ULB's Director is a qualified
nutritionist who has managed the company in a competent and dynamic manner
since 1972. Management staff is experienced and competent but needs
strengthening; subordinate staff would perform better with technical training.
47.       Financial Position  ULB's total assets at end 1977 amounted to MF
569 million, of which MF 380 million represented equity. ULB's debt equity
ratio thus remains quite low (0.5:1), indicating a substantial borrowing
capacity for the company. The overall financial position of the company is
satisfactory as is its liquidity position. The company is one of the few
state enterprises which have managed to maintain financial autonomy, primarily
because of the strong personality of its Director. ULB has retained its
profits and banks its own reserves, depreciation and other cash balances.
Government has recently agreed to transfer ULB to the Ministry of Rural
Development, exempting it from the law requiring contribution of 85 percent
of its profits to Government and otherwise guaranteeing it full financial and
operational autonomy including retention of its reserves and profits.
48.       ULB was established with an initial capacity of 5,000 liters per day
which was later expanded to 10,000 liters per day. The company has, however,
been operating at a rate of 15,000 liters per day since 1977 to meet demand.
ULB's output is at present 65 percent pasteurized milk, 30 percent cultured
milk products, including yogurt, and 5 percent fresh butter. Operation at
above capacity levels for an extended period has led to deterioration in ULB's
machinery and equipment, such deterioration being accelerated by inadequate
preventive maintenance. As a result, the continuity of its operations is
jeopardized by outworn equipment and several key equipment items need repair
or replacement on an emergency basis, to prevent collapse of the entire
operation.
49.       Under the project, ULB plant would be expanded, its management
strengthened, and its financial and operating autonomy within the state
enterprise system would be formalized. The investment program, which totals
US$2.8 million and includes a new factory building, production and auxiliary
equipment, an expanded laboratory, an equipment maintenance workshop, furnish-
ings, fixtures and vehicles, would increase ULB's production capacity from
10,000 liters/day to 50,000 liters/day (13 million liters per year) in 1985.
Installation of the new plant would be completed by 1982; production with the
expanded installed capacity would increase gradually from 1982 to 1985.



- 16 -
50.       IDA financing for this component would cover 100 percent of the
fixed investment costs of the program, up to US$2.1 million, net of taxes,
including both local and foreign costs, or 75 percent of the investment
program. ULB would cover 7.5 percent of the program, or US$215,000
equivalent, from cash generated from operations, and 7.5 percent with a
term loan from BDM, its banker. The remaining 10 percent would ue provided by
Government as an equity contribution to ULB. The IDA funds would be trans-
mitted through the Central Bank and banking system on the same terms as the
line of credit for private enterprises, including the 12 percent final lending
rate plus commitment fee. The loan would have a term of twelve years includ-
ing four years of grace. Government would assume the exchange risk. ULB
would undergo an annual audit of its accounts by independent auditors accept-
able to IDA. (Section 4.01 of Credit Agreement).
51.       Up to 15 months of consultant services and 5 man-months of technical
assistance by I.P.G.P. would also be provided. The consultants would provide
3 months assistance in investment preparation (preparation of specifications,
review of tenders and bids) and equipment installation, 5 months assistance in
dairy management and four months assistance in staff development. The
I.P.G.P. assistance would focus on improvement of internal management prac-
tices.
Project Coordination
52.       The project is complex, involving a variety of institutions and
types of services and several ministries. To assure well-managed and inte-
grated project implementation, a project coordinator will be located in the
office of the Minister of Plan, to whom Government has given supervision
responsibilities for the project (Section 3.08 of Credit Agreement). The
coordinator would be responsible for coordinating project start-up and execu-
tion and for assuring regular reports from participating institutions. The
unit would also undertake or contract for various studies needed to improve
project execution, to assist local institutions or to plan for follow-up
assistance. IPGP is expected to be the major source of study assistance.
53.       Under this umbrella, CEPI would be responsible for coordinating all
technical assitance to the non-public sector (except the banking system), the
Central Bank would be responsible for supervising all credit activities and
ULB will be responsible for the pilot public sector rehabilitation component.
54.       Under the supervision of the coordination unit, all project insti-
tutions would be required to submit regular semi-annual operational and
financial reports. The Central Bank would report periodically on all oper-
ations under the line of credit. CEPI would submit detailed financial,
organizational and operational data, focussing on its promotion, technical
assistance and training services as well as details on the operations of
the guarantee and equity funds. CEPI would also be responsible for regular
reports on the Crafts Development Fund. I.P.G.P. would submit regular oper-
ational reports on its training programs and finances. ULB would submit
periodic progress reports on the investment program in addition to its
financial statements.



- 17 -
Technical Assistance
55.       The project would include a total of 9.5 man-years of expert services
and 60 man-months of consultancy and engineering services. The average cost
of expert services, including contingencies, is expected to be US$10,400 per
man-month, of which approximately 50 percent represents reimbursable expenses
(housing, transport, travel, etc.). The average cost of short-term consultancy
including contingencies would equal US$8,000 per man-month, of which approx-
imately 40 percent represents reimbursable expenses. The qualifications,
terms and conditions of employment of experts and consultants would be subject
to IDA approval. All counterparts would be appointed within three months of
recruitment of the advisors.
Project Costs and Financing
56.       Total project costs are estimated at US$11.1 million, including
US$0.5 million in taxes. The foreign exchange component would be US$6.4
million. The proposed IDA credit of US$8 million would cover 76% of net
project costs, including US$6.3 million of the foreign component as well as
US$1.7 million of local costs. Project costs and the proposed financing plan
are summarized in the Credit and Project Summary.
Procurement
57.       All procurement for equipment with a value greater than US$50,000
for ULB would be conducted according to IDA guidelines for international
competitive bidding. Local financial institutions would follow normal DFC
procurement procedures and other institutions would follow local competitive
bidding procedures.
Disbursement
58.       All funds under the credit components of the project and for the
assistance to the banking system would be disbursed through the Central Bank.
Funds for the institution-building component would be disbursed through CEPI.
Engineering and training funds for ULB would be disbursed through ULB.
For disbursement of the credit components, the Central Bank would follow
regular DFC procedures. Quarterly statements of past and projected disburse-
ments under their respective project components would be copied to the Project
Coordinator by CEPI, the Central Bank and ULB, to facilitate the Coordinator's
overall monitoring responsibilities. The non-credit proceeds of the IDA
credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100 percent of the costs for expert services, consultancy and
training (US$1.665 million).
(b) 100 percent of the costs of supplies, equipment and vehicles for
the extension service (US$150,000), CEPI (US$75,000), the manage-
ment training program (US$50,000) and the coordinator (US$25,000),
with contingencies (US$25,000), excluding taxes.



- 18 -
(c) Materials, equipment and expert services for Export Craft Develop-
ment Fund (US$50,000).
(d) Reimbursement of Project Preparation Facility (US$360,000).
Disbursements w^ild be fully documented. Retroactive financing totalling
US$200,000 would cover the cost of emergency replacement of key equipment in
ULB.
Project Benefits and Justification
59.       The proposed project would help Mali better realize its industrial
potential by strengthening key institutions in the sector, providing a nucleus
of essential technical support, assuring access to investment credits and
improving the investment environment for Mali's private entrepreneurs and
artisans while participating in the Government's step-by-step efforts to
rationalize and improve performance of the State enterprise sector.
60.       The precise benefits expected from this project include more than
US$4.5 million in industrial investment, resulting from an IDA line of credit
of US$3.5 million, creating employment for more than 400 persons, at an
expected average cost per job of below US$9,000. The cost per job is quite
reasonable for modern sector industry in Mali, given the enormous expense of
importing any equipment or capital goods into this landlocked country and the
extraordinarily high local construction and infrastructure development costs.
Every effort will be made by subproject review and expert advice to encourage
reduced capital intensity in the modern sector through application of appro-
priate technology in project design. In addition, the extension service will
encourage increased participation of the labor-intensive traditional sector in
the credit and investment process, from which the employment expected to
result should utilize much smaller amounts of capital. Establishment of the
Export Crafts Development Fund will explore mechanisms to permit Mali's most
labor-intensive producers to exploit a new market for their wares.
61.       In addition to its precedent-setting benefit, the actual investment
in ULB should create 79 new jobs while protecting 77 existing jobs that would
have been lost if the rehabilitation investment were not quickly undertaken.
Moreover, this investment yields an economic rate of return exceeding 33
percent. This component also is helping to meet a basic nutritional need by
increasing the supply of a high-protein food source in Mali's major urban
area.
62.       The most important outcome of this project, however, should be the
development of a network of institutions and services - financial, technical,
educational - and the improved policy structure essential for the long-term
balanced development of the industrial sector.
Risks
63.       There are no exceptional project risks, although there may be some
hesitation on the part of modern institutions to assist the traditional
artisan community. To reduce the possibility that available assistance might
not reach the artisan community, assistance under the project is designed to



- 19 -
help the artisans organize themselves, define their needs and claim from the
institutions the financial and other assistance available, rather than wait
for these relatively sophisticated institutions to offer assistance. Proce-
dures for claiming assistance will also be simplified for this group.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUHENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mali
and the Association and the Recomrmendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness of
the IDA credit are:
(a) signing of a subsidiary agreement between Government and BCM
for the line of credit (Section 6.01 (a) of the Credit Agreement).
(b) issue by BCM1 of instructions on the conditions of the line
of credit to the commercial banks (Section 6.01 (b) of the Credit
Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 6 , 1980



-20-  .Annex  I
tA5UZ 3A
t1ALt -        LXDICATOtS DATA SNE-!
M1.1 R.aEFERENcE G2OUPS (~AUS  DI)
THOUfD (uSAND SO. .1 - IOST 9.ECIrM  ES.h5T!)
TOTAL  1240.0                                                S ME         SAME      NEXT HICHE3'
AC1ICILTURAL      398.0                                    MDST RECENT      GEOGLAPHIC    INCObl         iNCODi
1960  /b    1970 /b  STDALT  7b /         r6 5ON /c    01ROUP /d    GROUP /I
GNT PER CAPITA (USSI                     50.0          70.0     120.0             306.1       209.6        .67.5
Vil la CONESUIqtlON PER CAP ITA
(EIrluGB.M" OF COAL eQUTVALLF?)        13.0         21.0       27.0              80.6        83.9        262.1
P0PSto4N AD VTTAL STATI c
PPIStoc. ~-Y! (4I.llO)                  4.1          5.1        6.3
UUAM  POFUTIOeE (PEACRNE Of TOTAL) 11.1             14.9       17.2              17.1        16.2         24.6
POPCLAttOl FDJEC*ONS
POPULATION Tlf !f   2000 (NItLIOIS)                         11.0
STAfTOARY POPtATION (NfLLIOWS)                               21.0
TnA  STATIONAAY POFVAtIOt IS 15 ACXU                       2170
POPIUTItON DENS??!
PtA Sq. KM.                           3.0          4.0        5.0              18.4       49.4          45.3
PnA Sq. m. AGicuLtmAL tAD            11.0         13.0       15.0             50.a       232.0         149.0
POPULAttoH AE S CrUCIZ   (PIcAC1T)
0-14 YrS.                            43.5         43.4       44.0             4.1         43.1         45.2
15-64 Y7S.                            53.3         53.9       53.3             52.9         53.2         51.9
65 TIS. AND ABOWv                      2.7          2.7        2.6               2.J         3.0          2.8
PoPULurzom azom  aASz (nERCaIt)
DtOAL                                2.1          2.4        2.5               2.7         2.4          2.7
U18A                                  2.J          5.4        5.3              5.7          4.6          4.3
CRUDE BIt   LAT E (PEI THOUSAND)       50.0         49.0       49.0              46.3        42.4         39.-
Cl1g DEATH RATE (PEI TNOUSAND)         30.0         24.0       22.0              17.2        15.9         11.7
ozss REPRaOUCT:DO  Rot=                 3.8          3.3        3.3               3.1         2.9          2.7
FAMILY PLA.UNIMG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..         ..
USERS (P      r OF  AID  wotN)    ..                ..         ..                ..        12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRItION
1XDE1 OF FOOD PRODUCtIOH
nR CAPITA (1969-71-100)              95.0        100.0       89.0             94.3        98.2         99.6
?ER CAPITA SUPPLY oF
CALORIES (PFRCENt o0
REq0U1M1N,S)                      85.0          75.0/f    75.0              S9.5        93.3         94.7
FRTINS  (GRAMS PER DAY)             t4.6          53.677    52.a              35.8        52.1         54.3
o0  WUICA ANIIAL AID PUL.SE       15.8          13.57      12.5             17.9        13.6         17.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) .VITALITY RATE        41.0         35.0       32.0             22.3         18.5         11.4
REnALtR
LIFE &XPECTANCY AT BIltH (YEARS)    37.0            39.0       42.0             47.0        49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TIWSAND)                              210.0           ..         ..                ..       105.4         68.1
ACCESS TrO SAFE WATER (PE7CL'T OF
POPULAT2ON )
TOTAL                                  ..           ..        9.0             20.3        26.3         34.4
URBAN                                  ..         29.        42.0             33.9        58.5         57.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..        3.0             10.1        15.8         21.2
ACCESS TO  XCRlETA DISPOSAL (PRCET
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          8.0         ..             22.5        16.0         40.8
URA                                    ..         63.0         ..             62.5        65.1         71.3
AL                                     ..           1. ..                     13.9         3.5         27.7
POPULATION PEIR P.YYS:CIAR         39000.0/I   41490.0   32459.3              7b24.7    11395._        6799.4
POPLULAT70:  PER Nc1151G ?!RSON      4199O.OIh  3860.0    3040.0             2506.6      5332.4       15322.1
POPULATION PER HOSKrTAL 3BD
TOTAL                             1490.0L.I  1390.0/i  1350.0               502.3      1417.1        726.5
Us                                     ..        780.0         ..            201.4       L97.3         272.7
rUAAL                                  *-       1560.0         *-           1403.6      2445.9       1404.4
ADKISSOIiS PCR HOSPITAL iD               ..         27.3         *-              23.4        24.S         27.3
HOUS 1710
AVERACE SIZE OF HOCSEHOLO
DOTAL                                  ..           ..       44                4.9          .3.4
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..              4.  6.9                   5.1
RlURAL                                 ..           ..         ..              5.3         5.4           5.3
AVERACEZ NU9ER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..
WAL                                    ..           ..         ..                .           ..
ACCESS r0 ELECTRICITY tPERCEN.T
OF 2W%LLI%NCS)
C.TAL                                  ..           ..         ..                .        22.5         25.'
URBA                                   ..           ..         ..                ..       17.          4.1
RURA                                                                                           9 . 



- 21 -                                             Anne I
?ea 2
MLI
t~~~~t4O OW ATA SR?!t
MALI                       a     Z CsnazU  oGOCS (AOJUSTZD All 3CZS
- MA Ot UCwt       NML'4X1   E
MSSt=           G=CU¶ CZDIWYIC   ISCOKI         iSCoKZ
1960         g l970 Lk  .TAtK a       u11O0  4    0200         G OUP 900
A4JUStM ELOLWT IAT'?OS
PIRAlZ       TOTAL,                10.0         26.0      28.0             59.0       63.3         82.7
MALI                  14.0        33.0       36.0            64.2        79.l        87.3
7ThAL.Z               6.0         U8.0      20.0             44.2       48.4         75.8
S5COIA8:   TOTAL                    l.0         1.0        7.0             9.0        l5.7        21.4
MuLI                   1.0         8.0       l1.0            L2.0        22.1        33.0
1mgLs.                0.3          2.0       4.0              4.4        10.2        15.1
VOCA:IOMAL !OL. (1 Or 3SCOM&AT)  15.08            40.0      25.0              7.0        5.6          1.8
MXL-TLACUU lAtO
rLmS!                              .5.0        40.0       27.0a           42.2        41.0         34.1
sIcoUkisA 14.0                                    .0        .             2.9         21.7         13.4
AWLt LItCt   lAI  (?2C?T)             3.0           ..      l0.0             20.8       31.2         54.0
1=19U0"1 c&a  u TUSO8A
9OP0ATION                          2.0         2.3        2.1             4.0         2.6         9.3
8010 ZClSVtU  Pu TWORU
FOPULATIOM                          2.0        12.0       L4.0            44.3        27.2         76.9
v I sJULAttOU                        ..           ..        ..             2.9         2.4         13.5
tUDsAiU ("AILY MU"L
tWulEIt") CIXULXtZOU P-
TuouSM   POPULAION                    0.2         0.5        0.5              5.6        5.3         18.3
CUIM   AdUU   AIrIIACZ  M  WITA  2.0                ..        ..             0.4         1.1          2.5
TOTAL 1As4 ?OoCT (tUI1IA&ES)       2300.0       2900.0    3200.0
FiALI (PCUT)                      48.0        41.4       47.L            31.9        24.8        29.2
AGIZCULTU (?ICt)                   94.0        91.0       88.7             77.6       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PI3CD)                    2.7         4.1        5.0             7.9        10.0        11.9
sATtCtIAtt01 RATt O(PClt)
tOTAL                                57.8        56.5       55.1             40.8       36.9         37.1
MALI                                 60.3        59.6       58.5            53.9        52.4        48.8
WtsLI                                55.3        53.4       51.7            25.6        18.0        20.4
ECUMMtC OtPDUIMtC  RATIO                0.8         0.8        0.8              1.2        1.2          1.4
t71Ct5UDISTIIUTIONI
vwacnwr of  uvsr   ~a
VICKUT 5 PUCUT or 01   0    .S        .                 .           ..            ..              15.2
hICGIS  20 PZYCtIUT 0P RW0USMWL.S     .                      .               .          .         48.2
LO0ST 20 PERCZlt Of IlOUSUZOLDS      .           .         .               .                      6.3
L0OJ5t 40 PUCflt  0  8OUSNDL0S       .           .         ..                                    16.3
PO!MIT? TAIGET 020015
UTLSATED A5sOLUTt POVURT  INCO0M
LUL (USS Ptl CAPITA)
. . X                                                     98.0           187.6        99.2       241.3
IOtAL                                ..          ..       60.0            96.8        78.9       136.6
ZST7IMATZD ilLATIV  POVUTZ INtCO
LZVEL (U5$ IER CAPITA)
CUAs                                  .          .        61.0           138.4        91.9       179.7
10.L                                 ..          .        37.0            71.0        54.U       103.7
tSTIMATOD POPULATION StIN ABSOLUTM
POVETY ICOIIE LIVEL (PIRCST!)
5..                                                       27.0            34.5        44.1        24.8
lUU4L                                                     48.0            48.7        53.9        37.5
Soc available
Not applitabie.
RIh
L.   The adjusted group averaes for *ach i0dizcacr are popoisti*o*-ig%hed go_at:rUc mans, *xclading the extreme
values of the indicator cad the eost populaeed cnuntry id each group.  Coverage of counerlEs among the
Lndicators iepends cn availability of date and ts o±c ursfort.
Lb    hal.ss ocheeriss aoced, date tor 1960 refer to any veer between 1959 and 1961l !or 1970, between l969
rAd ;971; and for Most Uecet Istiuace. berween 1974 add l977.
e  Africa South of Sahara;   Id Low lnmee   (5280 ao lass per capita. 1976);   Is  Lover tfiddle Incame
(S281-550 ,er cap ita. 1976)   /L.  1972;   L   1962;   /  GCovernment personnel. Iocluding sidwives;
L.  Govern_sc hospital  estabLish_mmcs only;   LI  Not inacNding private rocational schools;  /k series
car%sed.
!ost lececnt EtUace of GO? per :apita Ls for 1978.
August. 1979



-22-
bEnhITItm  oP 5DI5]  MICAT~OEBEM
Mo.tes:  Although the data are drawn fro- ore  generally Judged the mat eutboritatlve and reliable, it shoul  also be netd th.t they NW not he istem.
tiosaliy co.sp-bnle becase. of the lack of  tetndordjced delaltios and conpts used by differet pocuteiss in collecting the data. Th. data  r,oetsea
uso f.1 to descibe orders of soitude, indi-te trende, send earotri                 t nls  _jor diffareacs betwee  condtries.
lOs aduse   gro   ceow   forTh   Weacg,-~P-  h iodootor a-  ppolotios-wigbted geometric mands, exoluding th.exntrsw aluIes of the indicator and the mat popeated,
ecoty t  ahgop    the  1olok of dote, groP oeaeof all indIcators for Capitol. Suplus Oil enportere and of  ndctrof Aec..5a  to  ater  an  berets.
Dispocl, dousing, Inom istributios nod P.very for othse oostey gosspe ar  ypopation-aeigsted g-eitrlc manws witbosot seslosid of the entem   nInes ad
the  -rt populoted ecor.Sneteovrn fco utries s                           the indlc&Mtr  dsMsd  on anfshit  of data ad is act aifom. emotionmost be seale
to ewlatbag aceouw  ofron  IndIc tor toaohr fThese ovree ace mostly .s-tlas u                    rsaia  of 'APeteC"MMe tMa  comn    tVe nnes sf
iodicator at . tin  omfno the coutry ad -of-erce grope..
LAND AREA (tho-sod otko.)                                                                 Acces tofoorea   TtP0soa   newest ofsofanla)- toa.n                    .adw l-
moot.  T!ta.i surface ore  cnpriolog 1rd sce  and Inlnd eaters.                            maro   epe(oa,obe,edna)cre   ym                                rsdiapma  -
Agricult-ra  - Rut recet Ir"e'nte of  aeou          .rd  .ce  ed hamporoily               pecetags oftheir respective popeltioee. Blerest  disposal1 myiaa
or   ""reantly fro  crops, pasturce, esrlt sod kitchen gordeno or to                  the collection ond disposal, with or withoat trantaet, of              intsen-ts
lief ..c.                                                                             and waste-eter by cater-hone syst-  or the u-  of pit Wiwte  ad s.nilae
inetal.laniona
GN?tP CAFCTA (0)-N 'pe  ca Ipita vatiantes nt curet norht peices,                         ftPo   flppponiokpa - Poplatio  eivided by  waSe  of Vsestiobeg psysbcta
eaeolted byIcneconcer  Io   ethod no acrid Sank inks, (1976-78 habe);                                         cal  ool at an-lvesty len]..
1960,  970, nd 197$data.                                        oseslaion oa  Swain  Perso   -  oeaida dledded by  ..aSer of preetleIns aLe
ENEiYl CcpSdMPrIONe PER CAPITAd - knees]  --euption cf comoroial e..sen   ol  ge  ste mesa,   settical moras, ad asea   mas.
(colso  iocte  ptrlen,nouri  oone  bdr-,coler  odga-Pansato prSant    a   totl.   b-. ad wesal - ftp.l.tio   (total,  ebes,
197,   ig7  dt,                                                                      public -   td  sad -dE%__   privte  ooe  o   p .ie    otla   dehiiainoeaa
) .                                                                                                -,~~~~~~~~~~~osiasaeetaisht   emaab    tfe  by at least one.  -eblwiL.
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             Estab,i.sbeenta proiding p-iepaLly cstodlal car  ar  not i-ciedd. Foral
Toa_osesln  hfd-Ye-iJlll-e) - Ac of Joy 1; 1960, 1970, end                       hospitals, howvr, islde.  hsaIth andd .eI center  not peeeetly staffed
1971ih.by  a flician  (hbt by a m-l.]. ansitnat,  oseu,.  midwife, et.) tob  offer
llhnPoua po   eroo  of. tonalt) - Ronic of ortac  ho total poplation;             10-patient  -cwodatkmoo  n  proide a limdted range of adicll.  facIlities,
differet defiititloc   of orba  areno my affect o-p-rbility of data                   Adaissiono %   HWon  tsl&Ne  - Petal  -aSe  of  dii     to Or disebrses. f-o
angcotive; llo,1970, end 1975 doto.                                                         diide       th  noe f bed..
Poaulntwio P-ojectioto
Poplation in yea,- t  - Coretppltico projections ace beed cc                        HOUSPING
197  totalppnsIcob  aean   eo sd their ecIality nod fertility                       Av-aeln    fEoehl  prospr  aeod      oa. r.                               Swa] 
rates  re-jetion par-nter  for  _otolity ratee  -oerise of three                      Ahiousehold eott  of a grope  idv&o                 o   b_ lvn   ysneea and
1erel  noceeing life  -ope-t-y oh birth   icoeuo    th coutry a                       their asia m.le.  A hoarder or Iss- myorm  not he  -Inded ia the
per -pylt  ic-c  1e-v, and fem1l  life eopectaney stailisiag at                       household for statistical parpoes.
77.5 peace   The pareotere for fertility rote aLoe. have threw levels               Aversa  naber of   rss          rom-talah.adrsa  - Ave"ag   -"Sr
soocElo  decline In fertility ocording to Incom  level and past                       of p_roo   orromi Pern  a   walocupe  caet1dsl dwelidego,
fanily .1acing perforocc. Each country In thec  -eigoed or  of thee                   res...pectively.  Weellinga eneIde aon-paeant ahntorac ad ooespied parts
niceconinatiooo of sociaty and fertility trends for projeetiocdcs.oEetiiy(e.o   f,eslla)-ttl   wa   derl-Cn
Stoti .. ry  "poplatiot -Iroaototiony  poPso1ation there boo.  grocth                   total, arbor, and rura  dealings repective]4.
cioce the birth ratc Ilo qoal to the death rate, acd also the age
stucur lrlno  contant. Tolo ic achieved only after fertiltty rates          iliSATIOs
ecieto thw roplacnet level of unit net reprodotion rate, sha                   Adusted Eorolinet Patios
eah g-nrsto.      fnnsrpse   tself .ostly.  The stationery pope-                      Prim-r school - tota. ele an  fl   -cr0  total, ale  and femi. anrol-
ilti. oeoowscvoiatdc  the ioi  of teprojeted ohotcieritieo                                at o   l   gec  h   rar   wela  peeatogse  of repoetive pri-y
of the popolotion in the year 2000, nod the  -atv of decline of fertility               secsepopuaions;  crel   aldacide   ed6I   er   a
rote to rIpI ceet lv-I                                                                  aesinted for different Lengths of priasy eAntlon; for osotriwe eith
teroaioryp-lno  in reahed - The year when shttoosr  popelatica                            universal  ducantico enroleet may senes" 150 p-r t since aa pupils
nice has been rchb,i.                                                                   ar  below or shov  the official sehl ag.
LcuaO en enity                                                    .                 leondoorscho     oa   mi   n             as-Cytsd an atooc; acrs
Pe, so. in. -Kid-y-s  popelattot pee nquarv kilomter )l00 heetaree) of                    oduenio  ee,irsa  lat  oo yer  o pprovd primay instrotiun;
total  re                                                                               prood.sg rel eaceatio... , or teaber trolndug leetrutio-  for pupils
Per n   i.  ogioluolln   - Coopoted so nbco  for ogricuatorl land                         u--Idly of 12 to 17 Year  of  wg; correaposd-ecure.r  g-mraijy
coly.                                                                                   ... eldad.
ouaInAge Suturt- )percrt) - Childreo  )l0-14 year), corking-ago                       esislmnlmtsreto   eodap       oainlioindn                                     id
15-h  yan, and retired )65 Yearn nod Iev) an protngea of mid-peer                        tehiei   aar                     I rote  MEWgr  ,ted. opserat  iedepeadeletly or a
pouale  I1960, 1970, and 1957 data                                                      depstasti  of s-ewodasy Intotc.
Posoa.tion  -oth nate  eren)- total - Aeual erI           h eaton of totol mId-d           iltahrrto                r       n   eodr  - Ttlatdae  nold i
yer  opltione for 1950-60, 19,60-70, no-       90T.pir d                               ""               seodr  law-    divdedbyMakr  of teachev  in the  nee
,poonltio  Oroctd Rtat  ;peret)  -buhs  - Annual cr011 ratee of urbe                        opndlag le-ol.
poPelottoon for 1950-b0, 19070  nod 1970-75.                                            Adult lteracy rate (nferwt)t    ieaeaat   si   ore   n   ri)a
Crdeirtb Rtot       tho-onod) - AnuaI lIce biriho per thoesend of aid-                   ape-etogo of tota  adsl poplatito agd 15 Year  and over.
Crud trth  ate 9pe t  I   acr) -Ano-oa deatho per th-nond of oid-year            Ci5fC
ppltion; 190,170, c   197  data.                                                   Paane  Care (Pere thosadouao)- Passenge  car  copiew   st.r or
Iron  becprductio  Oste' -  oeA-e nub-r of deoghtIrr  o  on   ill  . hea.seting le.e than egt Peros;eelor  sahol1oes, hearses ad alitary
in bee no..a.. I-produ-t - period if  h.e  -pyvietce  percent ago-                       eIe..
opecJiI fertility rnt; ....ally fi-r-er -eerec  a.ding io 1960,                      bai  eevra(e  hnad  p uato)-All types of  -.wiver  for radio
1970, ad 1975.                                                                         boeatingerlplicper thoseed tf popultion;  -oldea unlicensed
Fanily Pl_nins-A-.dpetoro. A.onl (th-unods) - A-.ool ooeher of                            receivere icuntc   and In year  ten  r-gistrtion of radio  ea  n  in~
-ccptoro of birih-cotro1 deci-  order  -upi-c  of notico..l femily                      effect; data for recent y-ar  my not be  -aparetle ei,o  a,o-tconre
placio   rn n                                                                           abolished Iicenotag.
Ceadic '~Ploco-- nr    'eccIfoIcid00c  -fretg  of erird                                 TV Receivero (per thousan   oplatiuc)- Ve     I rcivra for b-od-atito camra.
Owen of child-bearing soc '15hyan)oc            bn bit-cotrol dr-i-w                     ublic  e  thouadppltio;ecI                   nIc.ense  TO receivers        Incotri-
to all orirld  -cee  in1 coe, n-ro.ad is year  whew registratios of TV sets sa  in .effet.
Neoo,pr  hoeatno(erthana  nolti2a) - ih"na theavrgecieato
Feel AND NUTOTOCICeo    al                                                                                 e    itcteetoenpoer gdftord as n periodical pohlicatics
Tsdeo of rood Prod-icotlt pv  Coc11:ito   969-71=lC0) - Idcc of per Os pita               dreoted primoily to recording general  Teo    t in considered to he 'daily"~
conca produtionofal f oo    oiti-o  Production eoldro owd and                           if it anpeara at least fou  tijsacr0
feed ud io 0  cnlecar pea  hani.  Conoditoescover  riosc  gOOd        Cineas AennI Atteodonc  per Capitaow  Year - hoed un the outer or tieketa
)cc-t-doowinn  of c-ge) olcih ar  edible no   cti  wiina                       sld.durIng the year,'incuieg  dion_n to dric- in cinea  and ackile
c.. c-ff-c to  tro er  -oclded).  Aggrecote production of eah conaly                   un'ita.
Icb-ocdt00 ntionl a.cer.oge1 prodocer pri-c eighto.
PerI coitn gu,l of c_lcer  (percet of ro eet)- ComPted fins                        IA00OR FORCE
'eoeucln   f net foodinupye II   ca-loble in coutr  pe  onpita            Total [thIor frce (thouands) -lEcunnicalIy active per.eon, i-codiog armd
per dsy.  Aiclbiohlp plic  cowprioc do actic p-td-tie,Im_pore loon                    foreesd unoeloyd bnt eucldiog houscives, studeot, etc. Defaitio-
e-ports, _odI chages Ic ctok.  Net -ppnliet coclod  enoimL feed,seede,                in vaious countries are cot conp-rble.
qu_titiecuced infod p-ocoitie, cd I.-0c  ic dintributios. Require-                 94Jret  -fml  ao   oc                       eprreontags of total lsho  fore
setnoerre-tioatcd by CAC bccd on physLologic-1c-dn  for treal                                      cent.) - laebor freofcinfor         oretey, hosting ae
toticity cod h-olb  --ind-rin -ccoir -eeta1 tepertuc  boit                t  -oighto     pihl96Ai-itage  of ttetl labor forc.
ng   d ao  ..o Oictr,i-oln   sf pcpulnt,lt, no   llo   10 peece  for               Indostry (n ~eret) - [ter. force in mining,  oorcio  mnetr                     o
o_teonOcuelod Iced                                                     .electrIIy  cater and gas no percetag  of tt.1 labor fore.
Pce onnito  _pcyipo  protin, (cyan  per day) - Protein cott-n, of per                 Ratepai         .nte )oprceo)d-_to.tal  sandfml  - Partieipation 
capita set spl  ofodpr             .Net oupply of food 00 uefi-cd cc                  atiity rates ar  coptdaIoa,al, ccd femele labor forc  no per-
above. Ocqui-eneto for all coutries  -stblinhed by USDA p-oide for a                  ceta-ges of total, ale aad foals population of all ages respetiely;
ettnwalocc   60 Eo---a  cf total protein per day end 20 grams of            1960  190,ad 1975 data.  These ar  itoo prtioepatio   raes re-flecting
anma-cd plsc p,otein, of chich 10.grae ebol  be uninl protein.                     nge-seoo-tru -,r of tie pepulatio0  and long tine treed.  A fam eatiatos
ho   tcodad  ar   -ec  then thoe  f 7  ca    of Ztotl pretein end                 ar  fo. tri-slcsocs
3 crane of noinal protein on -nserge for the  -Iyd, proposed by PAt                 90onteo  aecndnon Patio -BPtio of Population under 15 sod i5 and ove  to
Inte .hr   Iced rood Ouc- ,                                                    helao  force i  age grup of 15-64 pears.
Per caepita protcio eicply Crow acol enod polne - Protelo nopply of food
dericd fron  -ilJo cod pol.e. in gr-n  per doy.                                   Oct5  DISTRIHflIOs
Child (noen 1-4) i-trolity cane (p-c tho-scd) - Ancuoldeoths per thoed                  P-eetAffe of Private  Ioos (both in cabh and hind) - feceivd by richest
10oecop 41 peso,tooholdre- in thio og  troop; for.         s dnl                  5 percet, rinhot 20 percent, pooret 20 peeent, sod pooret let paveno
opln  cicg re  dtto de-tod f... life tabl-e                                             of housebc.ds.
LifA'otnc   tbrh  pso      Aceag  sober of year  of lIIfe                                 ationed ~Absolute cportY loom- ieL,  Ios peS     r capita). -  ra sod rual-I
r"'o -ni Yc o     Blrth 10,97.nd 1977. deto.                                            Absolu te povety   .. L  Leve  is that momevlbe ahieb_a mitlul
Itfant lIrtaity Rotc ) ce tho-scd) -Anon.l dwtths of infunto oder one                     nutritio..ally adequate  diet plu  eso....tia2 sonfod  oqoirmts is act
pear oage per thoonod Lion birth                                                        affordable.
Oc--o to defc ente  (-ercot of poonioF-           tnl  p          n   ua                Estimated Relative P.vern  Ioom  leve  (Ui per caita,) - rhna rrl-
[Reeer  f peple(totl,  rin, cd rrl  olthcco          el access                  Rrl  eaie  oet  iccone bel in one-_thirof aeag e  capita,
sorfcte  cupylI  accluetrnd eofc                 tr rutreated hot                       Persona  income of the conbtry. Urine Isee  is derin-d frmthe rura  level
uscoataiootd ontr ouctso tht Coo  protected borehles, springs,                 nith adjeotmeot for higher coot of llivig is urbe  area.
an yscie. 0110) so  e-cttn-e of theIr  -ep-eti-c populattco. Ic                  Estimted Pplatio low A1;      bsolots Pary Ione           -. lee     ecct) -urba and
ac  _rbac neo  Apublic fouotnit or otandpeot 1oentod oct acre than                      rurl      MSeleet of Popultio  (uba7     ai  rurl7 h         Wr salt   or
20  ortrofe     h loose soy be cotedered an dbti ilthio reneable
acofthat I0000. ~In rurl .n..e .... re bolh  ac-n  ..coId ieply
thnt thc hooted    DI -c boter  of the bou-hold do sot bone to spend a                                                           nomc and SemI.  Dnto Divinis
diipropclti-t  ;e-t of the dny it fetching the fondel cater ...edn                                                       Ec_ana   Aal,yaia aod Projetina  bep.Asat
August 1979



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN l1977-78              1977                     1978                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z, constant price#
US$ Mn,       Z        US$ Min.       Z                   1970-1978             1977             1978
GDP at Market Prices -   a/                  696.3       100.0      839.2       100.0                   4.1                 7.4             -2.6
Gross Domestic Investment-                   109.3        14.9      124.8        14.9                   6.0                 7.4             41.2
Gross Domestic Saving at                      45.7         6.6      -25.6        -3.1                    . /                 , b/
Current Account Balance                      -63.6        -8.3    -150.4        -17.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                        148.6        21.3      123.0        14.7                  1O.3_-/            327 c/           -24.G
Imports of Goods, NFS                        212.2        29.7      273.4        32.6                  16.6_/               8.9i1           21.6
OUTPUT AND PRODUCIIVITY IN 1978
Value Added
US$ Min.       %
Agriculture                                  313.3       37.3
Industry and Construction                    138.9       16.6
Services                                    387.0        46.1
Unallocated                                    -          -
839.2     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
(Billton MP)           Z of GDP
1978 it         1978 A-/   1973-75
Total Receipts                               51.2             13.6       11,7
Current Expenditure                         55.7              14.7       15.6
Current Surplus      el                     -4.5              -1.2       -3.9
Capital Expenditure /                         3.3                .9       0.4
External Assistance -                         7.8              1.9        3.8
M)NEY, CREDIT AND PRICES (Billions MF)&/
1972           1973           1974            1975          1976           1977            1978
Money and quasi Money                    35,2            39.1           57.7           68.3           77.5           96.8           118.4
Credit to Government                     47.7           52.3            58.7           66.7          72.5            96.4           106.8
Credit to Economy                        34.1           43.3            69.7          102.2         122.6           107.0           134.2
Credit to State Enterprises
(short-term) h/                        20.9           28.4           47.8            68.7          86.0            64.4            73.0
Money and Quasi Money as X of GDP        19.9            21.4           29.5           26.4           25.7           28.3            31.3
Annual Percentage Changes:
GDP Deflator  it                          0.6             6.6            6.2           17.5            6.9            5.6            13.6
Credit to Government                      5.3           11.0            12.2           17.6            8.7           33.0            10.8
Credit to Economy                        23.1            27.0           61.0           46,6           20.0           12.7            25.4
of which:
Credit to State Enterprises              13.8           37.9            68.3           43,7           25.2          -25.1            13.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
al   IMF, Bank staff estimates for 1974, 1975, 1976, 1977, and 1978.
b/   Trend growth rate is not significant; domestic savings were negative in 1973.  1974 and 1975.
ct   At current prices.
dJ/ IMF, Bank staff estimates.
it   Excluding capital expenditures financed out of foreign aid which do not figure in the budget.
ft External official budget grants.
Data from Malian Central Bank except as noted; end of period.
h/ IMF publications
i/ Bank estimates.
Not applicable.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMFNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMFWNS                                                        MECHAUND!SE EXPORTS  AVERAGE 1975-78)
1974    1975      1976     1977      1978                          US$  _in      __ Z
(US$ Eillon)
Merchandise Exports FOB:-   64.0    71.9        94.4     124.6    94.2    Cotton and products        50.3      52
Iuport of Goods FOB         129.1   131.3    111.3       114.4   148.7    Live Stock and products 15.4         16
Net Imports NFS               79.0    84.4      63.0      68.3    95.9    Groundnuts and Products 13.7         14
Merchandise Imports c.i.f. 179.0   175.9    154.2        158.7   206.1    Fish (drief and smoked)  1,9          2
All other Goods           15.0     16
Food                        101.7    44.1       25.1      21.0    37.2    Total Recorded Experts  96.3    100
(Cereals)                   (72.8)  (14.0)    (..)    ( .)    19.9    Unrecorded Exports2/    10.1
Petroleum Products           15.8    23.3       22.0      28.5    37.7
Other Merchandise             61.5   108.5    107.1      109.3   111.3    Total Merchandise
Resource gap      3/       -129.7  -113.6    -65.3       -33.3                    Exports           106.4
Investment Income Payment
(net)                     -8.5   -21.7    -16.5       -19.8   -13.3    KXTEUNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Net Private Transfers 4/    10.0    19.6        15.9      20.3    24.4                                            USf Min.
Net Official Transfers       100.2    82.1      35.8       70.4    64.7    Public Debt, Disbursed and
Official Longterm            16.6    22.2       36.4      47.7    72.0         Outstanding                          539,5
Capital (not)                                                           Public Debt, Undisbursed       5/        245 6
SDR Allocation                 -       -         -        -         -      Total Public Debt Outstanding- <
Use of DWF Oil Facility        4.6     1.2       4.8      -         -
Errors and Omissions (net)   0.4    -3.7          -          .1            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978               -
Change in Reserves                                                                                                   %
(increase -)             30.1    60.7      33.1      -13.0             Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed              7.1
Net Negative Reserves
(end of period) 7/    -128.7  -205.1   -215.2    -199.9   223.3    IBiD/TDA LENDING, DECEMER 31, 1978
IBRD     IDA
(Million US$)
Outstanding and Disbursed        -       81.5
Undisbureed                      -       69.8
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed -        151.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE 8/
1972:  US$1        MF 504.42      SDR - MI 547.65
1973:  US$1  -    MF 445.40                530.97
1974:  US$1  -    MF 480.99                578.46
1975:  US$1  -    MF 428.64                520.43
1976:  US$1  -    MF 477.96                541.81
1977:  US$1  -    MP 491.34                573.65
1978:  US$1  =    MI 451.28                565.00
1/   Excluding unrecorded trade.
2/   Livestock, fish foodgrain  (estimat-d).
3/ Including unrecorded trade.
4/ Includes workers' ri_ittances.
5/   Includes US414.3million principal in arrears; excludes US$1.9 million interest in arrears.
6/   Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
7/   Net foreign assets of the banking syst.
8/ Period averages
91 Current dollars.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at November 30, 1979
(US$ million)
Credit                                                 Amount  (less cancellations)
Number     Year       Borrower           Purpose         IDA         Undisbursed
Six  Credits fully disbursed                           37.6
277-MLI    1972       Republic of Mali   Rice Devel-
opment       9.5 /1         0.09
383-MLI    1973       Republic of Mali   Highway
Rehabili-   17.8 /2         1.18
tation
420-MLI    1973       Republic of Mali   Education    5.0              0.23
538-MLI    1975       Republic of Mali   Livestock
Project     13.3            5.56
599-MLI    1976       Republic of Mali   Third
Highway     10.0            3.64
669-MLI    1976       Republic of Mali   Mali-Sud
Agricul-
tural       15.5           11.93
713-MLI    1977       Republic of Mali   Railway
III         10.5           10.01
733-MLI    1977       Republic of Mali   Education
II          10.0            7.20
753-MLI    1977       Republic of Mali   Mopti Rice
II          15.0           10.02
854-MLI    1978       Republic of Mali   Technical
Assistance   4.5            2.43
883-MLI /3 1979       Republic of Mali   Forestry       4.5            4.50
943-MLI /3 1979       Republic of Mali   Urban Devel-
opment      12.0           12.00
165.2          68.79
of which has been repaid      0.3
Total now held by IDA*                                164.9
Total undisbursed                                                     68.79
*    Prior to exchange adjustment.
/1   Including a Supplementary Credit of $2.6 million made in 1975.
/2   Including a Supplementary Credit of $8.3 million made in 1975.
/3   Credit not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investment as of November 30, 1979
(US$ million)
Loan                                                  Amount  (less cancellations)
Number     Year       Borrower           Purpose       of Loan       Undisbursed
403-MLI    1978       Sada Diallo        Bleach and
Plastic
Products        0.6             0.6
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 277-MLI       Mopti Rice Development Project.  US$9.5 million Credit of
January 6. 1972 (as amended on April 11, 1975): Effective
Date: June 26,1972; Closing Date: May 31. 1978 extended
to September 30. 1980.
Development in the first two years was hampered by the droughts of
1972/73 and 1973/74 which brought very low flood levels. In the following three
years development of irrigable areas, of yields, total production and marketed
production followed revised appraisal estimates fairly closely, but the project
experienced another year of exceptionally low flood levels and deficient rains
in 1977/78. On November 30, 1979, 99 percent of the Credit have been disbursed.
Arrangements have been made for a smooth transition to the Second Mopti Rice
Project.
Credit 383-MLI       Second Highway Project.  US$17.8 million Credit of
May 23, 1973 (as amended on June 12, 1975); Effective
Date: September 12. 1973; Closing Date: July 15. 1977
extended to June 30, 1980.
The Project consists of (a) reconstruction of the Faladie-Segou
(222 km) and Bamako-Bougouni (167 km) roads; (b) procurement of highway
equipment; (c) technical assistance to DPW; (d) preinvestment studies for
the Bamako-Kolokani road; and (e) a study of the trucking industry. Cost
overruns on the Bamako-Bougouni road limited this component to reconstruction
of a bridge and some access roads. All project components have been completed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 420-MLI      First Education Project.  US$5.0 million Credit of
July 11, 1973; Effective Date: November 15, 1973
Closing Date: December 31, 1979, extended to
June 30, 1980.
The physical implementation of the project is almost complete.
Implementation has been generally satisfactory, although further work is
required on some educational programs to ensure that the project will meet
fully its educational objectives.
Credit 538-MLI      Livestock Project.  US$3.3 million Credit of
April 11, 1975; Effective Date: July 24, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is a broad-based effort to improve livestock production
in Mali's fifth region and includes the management of a grazing scheme,
reinforcement of animal health services, development of stock watering facili-
ties, livestock markets, an abattoir and a trial station as well as a training
and functional literacy program and the preparation of a follow-up project.
Overall progress in project implementation has been disappointing. The grazing
scheme has not yet been inaugurated, the veterinary service has been neglected
and cost overruns have created doubt as to whether the objectives of the proj-
ect can be fully met. Actions are however being proposed to improve management
and redress the present situation.
Credit 599-MLI      Third Highway Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
January 9. 1976; Effective Date: March 10. 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30. 1980.
The project comprises (a) improvement of feeder roads; (b) execution
of backlog maintenance on paved roads; (c) procurement of spare parts and
equipment for workshops and the training center; and (d) technical assistance
and consulting services for (i) the training center, (ii) a transport plan
study, and (iii) the detailed engineering for the Bamako-Bougouni road (167
km). Construction of feeder roads and the backlog maintenance program is
underway. All spare parts and equipment for the workshops and the training
center have been delivered. Courses at the training center are proceeding
regularly. The transport plan study, which began in April 1977 with the
participation of Malian specialists, has recently been completed.
Credit 669-MLI      Mali-Sud Agricultural Project.  US$15.5 million Credit
of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: September 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project was signed year-end 1976, but administrative reasons
delayed effectiveness until September 1977. For this reason capital invest-
ments and a number of specific project activities were delayed. However, the
project is now proceeding satisfactorily with production on target. Good use
has been made of technical assistance and management is competent.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 713-MLI       Third Railway Project.  US$10.5 million Credit of
June 10, 1977; Effective Date: November 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Though a three month delay in effectiveness caused some slippage
in the start up of the Project, Government and the Railway have made excellent
progress. The efficiency shown by the Railway in implementation leads to
believe that the Project will be implemented smoothly. Contracts already
signed and quotations received remain within appraisal estimates.
Credit 733-MLI       Second Education Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
September 30, 1977: Effective Date: January 30, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Physical implementation of the project is about twelve months
behind schedule, in part because of recent project management changes that
have delayed project activities. Bidding documents for contruction of the
management institute and the livestock technician training center are being
prepared and tendring is expected to take place by mid-1980. Construction of
other rural education centers and implementation of the education components
are in progress.
Credit 753-MLI       Mopti Rice II Project.  US$15.0 million Credit of
December 8, 1977: Effective Date:  May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: November 30, 1983.
The project aims at the consolidation of the first project and
at moderate expansion of the cultivated area. Preparation of works is pro-
ceeding on schedule, all contracts for works and services have been concluded
and technical assistance is being recruited.
Credit 854-MLI       Office du Niger - Technical Assistance/Engineering
Project. US$4.5 million Credit of October 30,
1978; Effective Date: March 30, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30. 1982.
The project comprises a three-year program of technical assistance
and a pilot program of rehabilitation works. Other project components include
support for agricultural research and trial programs, an aerial photographic
survey, a socio-economic study of the settler population, an audit of the
Office du Niger accounts, and training scholarships for Malian engineers.
All major project activities have been launched.
Credit 883-MLI       Forestry Project.  US$4.5 million Credit of May 25,
1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The Credit was signed on May 25, 1979. It has not yet become
effective.
Credit 943-MLI       Urban Development Project.  US$12.0 million Credit of
November 7, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980
The Credit was signed on November 11, 1979. It has not yet become
effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
MALI
Industrial Sector Development Project
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of key events
(a)  Reconnaissance mission:          May 1977
(b)  Project preparation:             April 1978 - November 1978
(c)  Appraisal mission:               November/December 1978
(d) Date of completion of
negotiations:                  November 30, 1979
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:  June 15, 1980
Section II:    Special Bank implementation action
None
Section III:   Special conditions
(a) Projects below HF 30 million will be eligible for
investment code benefits. The experience will be
reviewed after eighteen months with regard to a
permanent modification of the investment code to
include projects under MF 30 million (para. 32).
(b) A program to allow CEPI financial stability during
project execution and review of means to ensure its
longer term financing needs in the light of its per-
formance under the project would be initiated; arrange-
ments would be made to ensure appropriate personnel
policies for CEPI; and audit by an independent auditing
firm would be undertaken annually (paras. 34, 35 and 36).
(c) A minimum of 35 percent of the credit line would be
reserved for artisans and small enterprises having
fixed assets of less than MF 100 million or an invest-
ment cost per job of at most MF 3 million. The balance
would finance medium-scale projects (para. 41).
(d) The interest differential accruing to the Central Bank of
Mali and resulting from transactions under the line of
credit will be allocated to the Guarantee and Participation
Fund(s) (para. 42).



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) Funds repaid on the initial loans under the line of
credit would be directed to BCM's term rediscount
system-to revolve for fifty years and serve as term
loans, the majority for private investment projects
(para. 42).
(f) ULB accounts would be audited annually (para. 50).
(g) the signing of a subsidiary agreement between Government
and BCM for the line of credit and the issuing of instruc-
tions on the conditions of the line of credit to the commer-
cial banks would be conditions of effectiveness (para. 42).



