Document of_ 
The World Bank FILE C(py
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2466b-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALI
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 3, 1980
Western Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = MF 440
ABBREVIATIONS
BCEAO          Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Quest
BCM            Banque Centrale de Mali
BDM            Banque de Developpement du Miali
BIAO           Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale
BM1CD          Banque Malienne de Credits et de Depots
BRM            Banque de la Republique du Mali
CEAO           Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CEPI           Centre d'Etude et de Promotion Industrielles
ECOWAS         Economic Community of West African States
EEC            European Economic Community
EMAB           Entreprise Malienne du Bois
FED            Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ILO            International Labor Office
IPGP           Institut de Productivite et de Gestion Professionnelle
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
SCAER          Service des Credits Agricoles et des Equipements Ruraux
SEBRIHA        Societe Briqueterie du Mali
SSE            Small Scale Enterprise
ULB            Union Laitiere de Bamako
UMOA           Union Monetaire ouest Africaine
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO          United Nations Industrial Development Organization
WFP            World Food Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE  SETTING                .................................................                1
Industrial  and  Financial  Sector  Development  .................                          2
II.   INSTITUTIONS  ....................................                        ............      10
The Banking  System  ......              ....................... ..  ..........            10
Banque  Centrale du Mali  ................  .................  .                     10
Banque de Developpement du Mali  .................... .....                          11
Banque Malienne  de  Credits  et de Depots  .................                        13
Banque  Internationale  de  l'Afrique  Occidentale  ..........                       14
Centre d'Etudes  et de  Promotion  Industrielle  ..............                   ..       15
Union Laitiere  de Bamako  ... . . . . .   ....... . ...... ...  .   ................. .   19
III.   THE PROJECT  .......              ............ ...... . .... .....................          22
Main Features ..............................  ..........                                   22
Project  Description  ............................................                         22
Project  Coordination  .......             ...................... ........            22
Support  to Private  Industrial  and  Traditional  Sectors  ....                      23
Institution-building  Program  ...........  ..................                        26
Pilot Rehabilitation  Project  in State  Sector ..............                         28
Project Monitoring  . ....................  .. ..................                          30
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS  ..................................                              30
Project  Costs  and  Financing                  .................................          30
Project  Benefits  and Justification  ...........               ...............            34
Risks  .......................................................... 0.....                   35
V. RECOMMENDATIONS  . .........................                       ................. ...     35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission conducted in
December 1978 by Barbara Insel, Bahadurali Jetha and Patrick de Liedekerke.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX  1       Overall Credit Allocations, 1974-77
ANNEX  2       Term Financing Portfolio of Mali's Commercial Banks
ANNEX  3       Comparative Financial Statements of the Commercial Banks
ANNEX  4       CEPI:  Pipeline of Projects
ANNEX  5       ULB:  Recent and Forecast Financial Statements and
Assumptions
ANNEX  6       ULB:  Investment Program and List of Existing and
Proposed Equipment
ANNEX  7       ULB:  Internal Financial and Economic Rates of Return
ANNEX  8       Project Coordinator:  Terms of Reference
ANNEX  9       Artisan Extension Service:  Proposed Terms of Reference
ANNEX 10       Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
ANNEX 11       Estimated Disbursement Schedule






MALI
I. THE SETTING
1.01      A landlocked Sahelian country of 6.3 million persons, with an
average population growth rate of 2.5%, Mali had a per capita GNP of $114 in
1977. The site of four major African empires, Mali has for centuries been the
crossroads of Arab, European and black African trade and culture. The legacy
of this heritage is an efficient traditional society, a vital entrepreneurial
and artisanal class and a remarkable ability to adapt and profit in adverse
circumstances. With good rainfed agricultural conditions, the Niger River
delta, and some mineral deposits, Mali has reasonable growth prospects.
Modern Mali has been slow to translate these assets into economic benefits,
focussing its early development efforts on capital-intensive projects under
an expanding state sector, at the expense of private productive investment.
As a result, in the fifteen years following independence, economic growth
barely kept pace with population and actually declined during the 1971-75
Sahelian drought. Since 1975, the economy has experienced a significant
recovery, mainly due to the revival of primary sector activity and secondary
sector development. Real GNP grew by 12% in 1975, 9% in 1976 and 7.4% in
1977, although return of drought-like conditions in 1978 may reduce real
growth to negligible levels.
1.02      Excessive dependence on imports, reliance on the export of a few
primary products, an expanding public payroll, a poorly managed parastatal
sector and an inelastic tax base have produced continuing budgetary deficits
and chronic balance of payments difficulties since independence in 1960.
Accelerated international inflation since 1973 and the Sahelian drought
aggravated these basic weaknesses. Since 1974, some progress has been
achieved toward increasing government revenues, reducing public subsidies
and encouraging production in the primary sector. However, these actions
were coupled with a rigid price control system, poor management and inadequate
financing that forced into deficit many public enterprises, increasing the
demands on the public treasury and the credit system. Partly as a result of
the drought, the relative contribution of the primary sector to Mali's GDP
declined from 41% in 1972 to 37% in 1977, while the contribution of the
secondary sector, including power, construction, manufacturing and public
works, rose from 15% to over 20%, of which industry accounted for about
half.
1.03      Employment.  Mali's working population, estimated at about 2.8
million, is overwhelmingly involved in primary sector activities. The indus-
trial sector accounts for up to 10% of total employment, primarily in the
traditional activities, with no more than 15,000 persons in the modern sector.
In addition, much of the agricultural population is seasonally employed in
artisanal production. Most of the salaried work force is employed by the
public sector. Although unemployment statistics are not compiled in Mali,
urban unemployment is clearly a growing problem. Expanded employment oppor-
tunities in the secondary sector will be required to absorb the growing urban
labor force and to avoid further growth in the public payroll.



- 2 -
Industrial and Financial Sector Development
1.04      Financial Sector.  At independence in 1960, Mali decided not to join
the French-assisted West African Monetary Community, but instead established
its own currency, the Malian Franc, and its own central bank, Banque de la
Republique du Mali (BRM). Subsequent acute economic, financial and balance
of payment problems brought the financial system to the brink of collapse,
compelling Mali to negotiate a special monetary agreement with France in 1967.
Under the terms of this agreement the Malian franc was devalued by 50% and
through an Operations Account with the French Treasury, convertibility into
French francs at a parity of 1FF to 100 MF was guaranteed by France. BRM
was dissolved, a new Central Bank, the Banque Centrale du Mali (BCM), was
established and Mali agreed to adhere to all the financial regulations and
discipline which govern the West African Monetary Union (UMOA), with the
ultimate goal of joining UMOA by 1982.
1.05      With the dissolution of BRM, a new Government-owned Bank was estab-
lished, the Banque de Developpement du Mali (BDM), a commercial and develop-
ment bank, to assume BRM's public sector portfolio. Mali has two other
commercial banks, Banque Malienne de Credits et Depots (BMCD) and Banque
Internationale de L'Afrique Occidentale (BIAO), a Postal Savings Bank and an
agricultural credit institution, Societe du Credit Agricole et des Equipements
Ruraux (SCAER).  BDM, however, is Mali's single largest financial institution,
controlling 88% of local banking activity.
1.06      The Industrial Sector.  Mali's industrial sector is characterized
by the dichotomy, typical of West Africa, of a small modern sector, composed
of some 28 large public enterprises and numerous medium- to small-scale private
enterprises, alongside an active traditional sector of more than two hundred
thousand artisans. The large public enterprises, which account for two thirds
of modern sector sales revenues, process local raw materials while the small
private modern sector engages in miscellaneous import substitution activities.
Food processing and textiles together represent 60% of modern sector sales.
Artisanal production represents two thirds of manufacturing output by amount.
1.07      Development Issues.  Mali's physical resources, trading mastery
and talented population provide a sound basis for reasonable industrial
expansion. Among the primary areas of potential industrial development are
processing of agricultural and livestock products (food products, cotton
wool, leather and skins, dairy and cotton seed products), production of
agricultural tools and small equipment for the expanding rural development
projects, mechanical tools, spare parts and hardware, clay products including
building materials, pottery and tiles, wood products, metal products and metal
recycling, light consumer goods, light chemicals and the transport and con-
struction industry. Several of these products have reasonable export poten-
tial as well. Mali's unique textile and decorative crafts should have good
export prospects if appropriate assistance is provided. Growth of regional
groupings and markets such as; CEAO and ECOWAS to which Mali belongs should
also contribute to industrial growth.



- 3 -
1.08      Efficient development of both industrial and financial sectors has
been distorted by the demands and priorities accorded to the State sector,
depriving productive non-public sector investors of needed support. These
pressures have resulted in poor institutional development in these sectors
and even deterioration of existing entities, particularly in the banking
system, as described below. Thus, a priority in the proposed IDA project will
be institution building and expansion of assistance to the until recently
neglected private entrepreneur.
1.09      The State Enterprise Sector. Mali's post-independence industrial
policies favored almost exclusively the development of large state-owned
enterprises which today employ over 12,500 persons. Due to poor management,
undercapitalization, low productivity, inefficient project design, uneconomic
regulatory policies and political interference, the performance of these
enterprises has been disastrous, producing massive deficits. Although the
global net losses of these enterprises declined from MF 14.5 billion in
1974 to MF 2.5 billion in 1976, and improvement continued in 1977, 1978
showed renewed deterioration. These variations reflect primarily changes in
cotton export earnings by the state trading company, rather than structural
change in the system. By 1976, despite the overall improvement in the sector,
eight of these enterprises were determined to be legally bankrupt.
1.10      All 23 fully Government-owned enterprises and five mixed enterprises
are under the supervision of the Ministry of State Enterprises, established in
1974. The Minister is the board chairman of each of these enterprises. The
Ministry's Bureau of Budgets and Accounts establishes and monitors uniform
accounting standards for all enterprises. A planning section, under which
enterprises are grouped on a sectoral basis, reviews financial and production
plans for the enterprises annually. The projections in these plans are seldom
realized and appear designed to justify budget contribution targets. Person-
nel policies as well as some procurement activities of the enterprises are
managed centrally by the Ministry's Administration and Financial Unit.
Termination or reassignment for cause is practically impossible at the enter-
prise level. Pay scales are fixed centrally, with no performance incentives.
1.11      Statute requires that 85% of all profits of each enterprise go
directly to the Government, half to the Operating Budget and half to the
Investment Budget. Ten percent of the remaining profit is allocated by
statute to company reserves and 5% to a social services fund for employees.
Moreover, the State itself is substantially in arrears to most enterprises for
products purchased. Furthermore, many of the enterprise managers are civil
servants inexperienced in business. Finally, price controls on the output of
State Enterprises have not kept pace with the cost of inputs and market
conditions, tending to be based on social criteria thus permitting few of even
the efficient operations to realize profits. The State Enterprise sector has
therefore found it necessary to turn to the banking system to finance working
capital requirements and operating losses. Even then, few of the companies



-4-
have adequate funds to maintain equipment, to build inventories or to purchase
inputs in bulk or in advance. Financial charges have become a serious burden
to many state companies. Nevertheless, by diverting the earnings of the
profit making companies to the State Treasury and requiring the unsuccessful
companies to finance their deficits through the banking system, the Government
has been able to obtain substantial resources from this sec:ir: in 1976,
State Enterprises contributed one third of all State Treasury receipts.
1.12      Credit Policies.  State Enterprises are the major borrower in the
credit system. In 1977, State Enterprises claimed MF 89 billion, or 44%, of
total credit outstanding (including state enterprise debts shifted to the
government account).  The Government was the second largest borrower, with
debts of MF 81 million (402 of the total), as shown in Annex 1. Although
rediscount facilities are in principle available to both the public and
private sector, 98.5% of the facilities not allocated to the Government's own
account were absorbed by state and mixed enterprises, effectively precluding
much of the private sector from access to the Central Bank rediscount. Most
of these rediscounted credits pass through BDM, which is the sole financier of
State Enterprises. Few of these credits to State enterprises carry Government
guarantees; BDM therefore retains the full commercial risk. Most of these
credits are regularly rolled-over, as the enterprises are unable to repay
the debts.
1.13      Stringent credit controls were introduced in 1976, in connection
with the special agreement with France, to control inflation and reduce the
deficits on balance of payments and the corresponding Operations Account. As
shown in Annex 1, the growth rate of total credit outstanding dropped from
31.5% in 1974-75, to 15.5% in 1975-76 and 4.5% in 1976-77. The impact of
these constraints was felt primarily by the private sector, as its share of
total credit outstanding dropped from 18.8% at the end 1976 to 16.4% at the
of 1977, or from MF 36.7 billion to MF 31.4 billion in absolute terms.
Rediscounting from the Central Bank for the government's own account increased
substantially from 1976 to 1977, but the amount of rediscount made available
to State Enterprises and private borrowers actually declined by 9%.
1.14      Credit has generally been allocated to satisfy the economy's short-
term credit requirements. Excluding the Government's borrowings for its own
needs, short-term credit represented almost 94% of total outstanding credit as
of December 31, 1977 and 98.6% of rediscounted credit (see Annex 1). Most of
the term investment requirements of the Government and state enterprises are
provided from donor funds or the state investment budget. The private sector,
more dependent on the banking system, has received little term financing
assistance. Of the FM 6.6 billion, term credits outstanding on December 31,
1977, the only amount directed to non-public industrial enterprises was FM 1
billion provided by KfW in three lines of credit channelled through BDM for 13
investment projects since 1974. The balance of the total outstanding term
credits, whether financed through rediscount (FM 0.8 billion) or from the
banks' own resources, was directed to consumer and housing credit (FM 4.8
billion) or to public enterprises (FM 1.0 billion).



- 5 -
1.15      Interest Rates.  Although Mali has no formal interest rate regula-
tions, the following pattern is generally observed:
Table 1
Structure of Lending Rates
Public               Mixed               Private
Enterprises          Enterprises           Sector
Short-term                   9.5                11.5              11.5 - 15.0
Medium and Long-Term         9.0                11.0               7.5 /
Final On-Lending
Rate of Rediscounted
credits (all terms)           7.5                7.5                  7.5
/1   On-lending rate for KfW lines of credit to the private sector.  Rates
charged on future KfW lines will be consistent with the IDA project.
In January 1977, the rediscount rate paid by the banks was increased from
3.5% to 6% on all credits. The same rediscount rate is charged for all types
of credits. Interest rates paid on deposits are generally low; from 0.25% to
1.0% for sight deposits, 4% for savings deposits and 4% to 6% for term deposits
of more than three months.
1.16      Inflation rates in Mali averaged about 6% until 1975, rose to 17%
in 1975, dropped back to 6% in 1976 but have increased again in 1977 and 1978.
The Central Bank has estimated that the effective inflation rate averaged
about 10% in 1978. Stringent credit policies are expected to keep inflation
down to no more than 10% per annum over the next three years. Thus, while
short-term lending rates to the private and mixed sectors have been relatively
realistic, lending to the public sector, all rediscounted financing and
some term financing has been subsidized. The interest rate preferences shown
to the public sector are but one example of the policy preferences shown to
state entreprises and have been the subject of discussion with the Associa-
tion. Given the dependence of these enterprises on the banking system and
consequently the heavy burden of financial charges on these enterprises, it
is unlikely that these interest rate preferences will be entirely eliminated
before a more general reform of the public enterprise system is instituted.
Under the forthcoming IDA project, a proposed 12% interest rate will be
charged for all term loans. As these IDA resources are likely to be the
only new term lending resources available in Mali, the higher interest
charge is expected to have an upward influence on Mali's term interest rate
structure. Although these rates may be considered only modestly adequate
in the present international financial climate, they represent a major
upward shift in Malian term interest rates.
1.17      Impact.  This system has restricted bank credit for private pro-
ductive investment so as to satisfy the cash requirements of state enterprises.



- 6 -
In many cases, however, the banking system is merely replacing funds drawn
from the state enterprises either directly by Government action (Government
control of profits, reserves, etc., Government arrears) or indirectly by
uneconomic regulatory policies (price control, employment policies). Thus, in
a very real sense, the state enterprise system has become only a conduit for
expanded bank financing of the Government deficit. The problem of the State
enterprise sector is therefore ultimately inseparable from Mali's macroeconomic
difficulties and it is unfortunately the banking system, specifically BDM,
which carries the major risk in this arrangement. BDM's exposure to the State
enterprise sector as of December 31, 1977 totalled MF 78 billion, or six times
its net worth. Given the precarious financial position of most of these
enterprises, and the absence of a Government guarantee for these loans, BDM
would almost certainly be insolvent if repayment were required on its
portfolio of rediscounted credits to state enterprises and restitution of
its financial position would require a recapitalization of a scale clearly
beyond available Malian resources.
1.18      Three avenues of eventual resolution appear possible.  First, in an
implicit acknowledgment of BDM's situation, the Government is considering
proposals for reorganization of the banking system, and has already
authorized expanded activities, including branch banking, by the other
commercial banks. Secondly, in the medium-term,. the incorporation of Mali
into the West African Monetary Union, expected by 1982, should result in
some reform of the present banking system situation. Finally, for the
state enterprise sector itself, the Government has been considering various
proposals for reform on a case-by-case basis, although it was only in 1978
that the first concrete action was undertaken on such proposals with the
sale of the deficit-ridden state brickmaking company to a private investor.
In exchange for new investment funds needed to reorganize this company, the
Government will absorb substantial losses on this sale. More general
rationalization of the sector cannot be expected in the near-term given the
high political and financial costs attendant on such program.
1.19      The Association has been discussing the need for rationalization
of the State enterprise system and Government financial policies with Malian
authorities since 1974 in the context of our continuing concern for the over-
all economic situation. As part of the preparation for this project, IDA's
Project Preparation Facility financed independent consultant studies of
the feasibility of rehabilitating or reorganizing two State enterprises: a
woodworking company and a milk processing company. These enterprises were
selected for study as the most promising for rehabilitation after review of
a large number of candidate firms. These studies, reviewed and accepted by
the Government and IDA, recommend that the woodworking company be reorganized
and converted into a privately controlled mixed-enterprise and confine its
business activities to its more profitable products. The Government is seek-
ing such a private investor and, if successful in this search, will consider
absorbing the substantial losses resulting from such conversion. Following
such conversion, the Company will be eligible for consideration for financing
under the proposed IDA project. The milk company is a very different case.
As explained in paras 2.39-2.50, the Union Laitiere de Bamako (ULB) is one of



-7-
the few steadily profitable public companies, is reasonably well managed, and
has sound business prospects, all largely because it has succeeded in main-
taining relative autonomy and commercial integrity within the State system.
Moreover, as Mali's only milk pasteurization company, ULB's public ownership
appears socially justifiable and a rehabilitation investment meets both
economic and basic needs criteria. For all of these reasons, it is expected
that with IDA's support, ULB can become a model of sound State enterprise
management and an important success in the Government's case-by-case reform
program.
1.20      The Non-Public Industrial Sector.  A noteworthy feature of the
current Malian reform efforts is the Government's increasing pragmatism
about private investment, as it comes to perceive private, especially local,
capital as the last untapped resource available for the new investment so
needed for Mali's continued development. Until very recently, however,
the role of private enterprise and investment in Mali has been clouded.
1.21      Data on private enterprise in Mali is scarce, but available infor-
mation suggests that modern productive enterprises number at least 100 and
together these enterprises employ well over 2,000 persons. In the past, most
of the private modern sector firms tended to be foreign-owned but the reluc-
tance of foreign companies to invest in Mali during recent economic difficul-
ties has increased the relative importance of private Malian enterprises.
Of the 20 enterprises receiving investment code benefits for new investment
since 1974, 18 were privately owned, predominantly Malian. Most are medium-
to small-scale and their lines of business vary widely, ranging from textiles
to foundries to bakeries. Financial performance has generally been better
than that of the public sector firms. Most of the smaller Malian-owned firms
would benefit from technical and management assistance, but little such assis-
tance has been available. With financial assistance scarce, some new enter-
prises have been financed entirely from family resources or supplier's
credits. Given the environment and lack of available assistance, this sec-
tor's growth is impressive and due mainly to the dynamism and entrepreneurship
of Mali's businessmen. To help relieve the credit shortage for this sector,
the proposed IDA project will provide a line of credit through the banking
system for sound productive private investment projects. Assistance will also
be offered to help improve the development financing capabilities and proce-
dures of local banks.
1.22      Traditional Sector.  Mali's artisan sector has shown vitality and
resilience. Producing lower-price goods from local materials with labor-
intensive methods, Mali's artisans provide considerable benefits to the
local population. Textile weavers and spinners represent the major group of
artisans, although the metalwork, machinist, building trades and woodworking
subsectors have grown rapidly.
1.23      A substantial expansion in the productivity and employment in the
utilitarian crafts (metalwork, woodworking, building trades, machinists) is



-8-
possible, if they are helped to improve the organization of their work and
to adapt their techniques to the fabrication and repair of new types of
equipment as well as are assured better access to credit. Although local
banks have expressed interest in helping the artisans, it is not cost effec-
tive for them to extend or monitor such small credits to individual artisans.
Nor is it practical to deliver the needed technical assitan_- on a one-to-one
basis. Moreover, Mali's artisans are suspicious of formal institutions and
modern educational systems and, unlike in neighboring countries such as Niger
or Upper Volta, no local official training institution has as yet gained their
confidence.  Given these constraints, the best arrangement for helping the
craftsmen is proving to be a system of village-based training, supply and
credit cooperatives working closely with a practical field extension service.
This system's main advantage is its easy acceptance and adaptation in the
Malian context, as it builds on the essentially communal nature of Mali's
traditional society. A highly successful model of such cooperative assis-
tance is being undertaken by CMDT, Mali's cotton company. Fifty-three local
blacksmiths have been helped at an average capital cost of US$600 per work-
shop (each workshop employing one to four persons) to adapt modern technical
methods to the production and maintenance of small agricultural implements.
Several similar cooperatives are in the process of formation in Mali's smaller
cities and villages. The main obstacles to the implementation of an artisan
development program of this model are the absence of a field-level technical
service to work with these cooperatives and the lack of lending resources by
the local banks. The artisans will be eligible for financial assistance under
the IDA line of credit and will also be served by a field extension service of
skilled technicians to help improve their practices and products.
1.24      The traditional textile and decorative crafts face somewhat different
prospects. Although the artisanal products are generally recognized in the
local market to be less expensive and often of better quality than competi-
tive manufactured goods, the growth potential for the domestic market is
limited. Traditional production methods are quite efficient, contradicting
the conventional wisdom that introduction of more modern equipment would
improve productivity. Exploitation of the export market will be an important
factor in achieving improved incomes and employment in this largest group of
artisans. A fund would be established under the project to explore and to
undertake pilot projects to test alternative mechanisms to improve these
products and expand exports.
1.25      Assistance to Industry.  The establishment in 1971, with UNDP/ILO
assistance, of the Institut de Productivite et de Gestion Professionnelle
(IPGP), as Mali's first management training institute, 1/ was followed in 1975 by
the creation with UNDP/UNIDO assistance of the Centre d'Etudes et de Promotion
Industrielle (CEPI), Mali's first industrial promotion agency.
1/   IPGP is discussed in greater detail in the Appraisal of a Second Education
and Training Project in Mali. Report No. 1379a-MLI - of June 24, 1977.
CEPI is described in paras. 2.27-2.38 below.



- 9 -
Nevertheless, technical, promotion and management assistance available to
private Malian entrepreneurs has remained seriously inadequate, as the initial
efforts of both of these agencies have focussed on services to the State
sector. CEPI, long underfunded and understaffed, has however recently under-
taken new programs to serve private entrepreneurs and artisans. The proposed
project will encourage and assist CEPI to substantially broaden this indus-
trial promotion role and to oversee a comprehensive technical assistance pro-
gram. Similarly, IPGP, which is also redirecting its services toward local
enterprises and practical assistance, will undertake, under this project, its
first basic skills training program for small entrepreneurs, in coordination
with CEPI. This program should go far towards meeting local entrepreneurial
demand for technical assistance.
1.26      Investment Policies.  The Malian Government introduced its first
investment code in 1969, revised in 1976. This Investment Code offered import
duty exemptions and tax concessions to investors according to three categories
of investment size and a variety of other vaguely defined criteria (e.g.
local value-added, counting however the high local excise tax rate, training
offered for Malian nationals, sector of activity, perceived benefit of the
investment). Until recently, the benefits actually provided under the code
did not compare favorably in either value or duration with those of neighbor-
ing countries. By offering greater advantages to larger investments and by
reducing the costs of capital goods imports, the code, as is typical in the
region, encouraged relatively capital intensive investments. Investments of
less than MF20 million had been excluded from all benefits. It was practi-
cally impossible for potential investors to reliably predict the benefits
for which they would be judged eligible or on which specific criteria they
would be evaluated. In addition, approval procedures have been complicated
and processing time lengthy. Thus, the overall system has become highly
subjective and discretionary, often more a disincentive than an incentive to
good investment projects.
1.27      The Association has been discussing these policies and procedures
with the Government which, with the help of a PPF-financed consultant, has
already modified substantial portions of the present law to introduce employ-
ment creation and other efficiency criteria, to clarify and standardize
benefits and eligibility criteria and to simplify procedures. Unfortunately,
at the same time, the minimum size of eligible projects was increased from
MF20 million to MF30 million, a situation which is unacceptable to the Asso-
ciation. However, the Government has now agreed that projects below MF30
million will be eligible for investment code benefits under the same economies
criteria applied to larger projects. In addition, discussions on permanent
investment code revisions will be re-opened in eighteen months. An acceptable
permanent modification of the law should be a firm condition of any follow-
on project.



- 10 -
1.28      If Mali is now to take full advantage of its private sector
resources, both the investment climate and the assistance available to this
sector need much improvement. The proposed project seeks to encourage and
assist the Malian Government to undertake these improvements. With this
assistance program, prospects for a significant expansion in productive
investment in this sector are attractive.
II. INSTITUTIONS
2.01      The key institutions in the proposed project will be the banking
system, CEPI and ULB.
The Banking System
2.02      Within the banking system, the Association's key intermediary will
be the Central Bank, which will in turn monitor the on-lending activities of
the three local commercial banks, BDM, BMCD and BIAO.
Banque Centrale du Mali (BCM)
2.03      Established in 1968 within the framework of a special agreement with
France, Banque Centrale du Mali is a State enterprise with financial autonomy
and a fully paid-in share capital of MF1.5 billion. As a central bank, BCM
issues currency, handles external transfers, performs Government treasury
functions, supervises the banking sector, compiles financial and balance of
payments data and provides extensive rediscount and advance facilities for the
Government and the local banks. BCM is administered by a Board of Directors
consisting of five Malian and five French representatives, nominated by their
Governments. The President of the Board is appointed from among these rep-
resentatives upon proposal from the Malian Government. The Director of the
Cabinet of the Chief of State is at present holding this position. The
General Manager, appointed on proposal from the French Government, is seconded
from the Bank of France. He is assisted by a Malian deputy.
2.04      Organization.  BCM has a total staff of 180 organized into five
departments: credit, financial operations, cashiers, administration and
studies. The Financial Operations Department maintains BCM's accounts. The
recently-enlarged studies department issues all BCM publications including
annual reports and a monthly statistical bulletin. The credit department
processes all rediscount and advance applications and monitors all rediscount
credits. It is staffed with 10 persons, 4 of whom are credit analysts, plus
a technical advisor seconded from the Banque de France. The chief of the
credit department is an ex-EDI fellow, who also has received training at the
Caisse Centrale banking facilities in France. BCM's staff is competent.



- 11 -
2.05      Procedures and Credit Policies.  BCM's statutes and policy state-
ments clearly define BCM's lending and rediscount policies. BCM's lending
to the Treasury, including rediscounting of treasury bills, is in principle
limited to 10% of fiscal receipts of the previous year. Rediscounting facili-
ties offered to the commercial banks, determined every six months on the basis
of their forecasted lending and their available resources, is in principle
limited to a maximum of 50% of the total projected lendings by each bank.
However, actual rediscount allocations are inconsistent with these principles,
as the Central Bank rediscounts the major share of BDM's lending. Rediscount
of medium-term loans (2-7 years) is only accepted for local currency costs of
productive investments in priority sectors or for the construction costs of
housing projects. Rediscounting of loans to individual projects is generally
limited to 50% of the total project cost, but may finance up to 65% of
total costs for industrial and agricultural development projects. Promoter's
contributions in such subprojects has to cover at least 20% of the project
cost, with the balance to be financed through suppliers' credits or other
external sources or nonrediscountable borrowings. The proposed project is
being undertaken under the Central Bank's general authority to assist and
advise the Government in various financial programs.
2.06      Appraisals.  The credit appraisal of term rediscount applications
essentially focuses on financial, marketing and credit worthiness aspects
of the project. Economic and technical aspects of appraisals need to be
strengthened.
Banque de Developpement du Mali (BDM)
2.07      Established in 1968 as a State Bank to take over the commercial
department and the public enterprise portfolio of BRM, Banque de Developpe-
ment du Mali has since then considerably enlarged and diversified its
activities. Its present share capital totals MF 5 billion. It is the only
bank in Mali with regional branches, 8 in all, dispersed throughout the
country, although branch banking by the other banks has recently been
authorized. Although it carries the name of a development bank and does
perform limited development financing services, BDM is essentially a commer-
cial bank involved in a full range of commercial operations. BDM also ad-
ministers, on behalf of the Government, a certain number of bilateral aid
programs by maintaining clearing accounts in its books.
2.08      Management.  BDM's nine-member Board is chaired by the Minister
of Finance and includes seven cabinet directors of various ministries as well
as a representative of BDM's personnel. The Board meets only once a year,
basically to approve the annual accounts, and does not appear to be actively
involved in BDM's operations, more so because all credit granting powers
have been delegated to BDM's General Manager. In addition, since BDM's policy
statement is totally silent on any exposure limits, the General Manager has
the sole authority to approve unlimited amounts of credits to any customer.



- 12 -
In practice, however, the Government strongly influences BDM's policy and
credit decisions. In addition, an internal credit committee decides on all
loans above MF 10 million. Loans below this amount are approved by the credit
manager or the managers of regional branches.
2.09      Staff.  BDM's total staff numbers 729 of which 422 -work at the
Central Office in Bamako. Although the headquarters staff is relatively weak,
the branch office staff includes some quite competent bankers.
2.10      Organization.  BDM is organized into 10 departments along functional
lines including finance, studies, administration, external services, internal
control, data-processing and recoveries units and a separate department
overseeing all regional branches. BDM has two credit departments, one of
which handles all credits financed with domestically-obtained funds, including
rediscounting, while the other, the International Finance Relations Department
(SRIFI) recently established and much smaller in size, deals exclusively with
credits which are totally financed by external resources. Such credits to
date have included only the KfW credit line and the Department has primarily
occupied itself with the administration of some bilateral financings for
government projects.
2.11      Procedures.  The existence of two separate departments processing
credit applications results in two separate appraisal criteria and procedures.
The appraisals carried out in the domestic resources credit department follow
the usual commercial banking approach, focusing essentially on the credit
worthiness, security and financial aspects of the applicants, except for
appl'cations from public sector enterprises where political aspects carry
a considerable weight. Appraisals of projects by the International Finance
Relations Department on the other hand are more thorough. These appraisals
are generally prepared with the assistance of a German technical advisor,
the only expatriate in BDM. Recently, however, KfW has proposed that most
appraisals for its projects be referred to CEPI. Neither department has any
regular procedures for project supervision.
2.12      Operations.  As of December 31, 1977 credits to public or mixed
enterprises totaled MF83 billion and constituted 84% of BDM's outstanding
portfolio, most of which is rediscounted. Short-term credits represented
89% of this portfolio. It is BDM's and the Government's policy to almost
automatically roll-over rediscounted loans to public enterprises, to
relieve them of the burden of repayment. In most cases, the enterprises
could not repay these loans, if so required.
2.13      Term loans represented 7% of BDM's total portfolio as of December,
1977. The major share of these loans financed housing (MF3.3 billion),
automobile credits (MFO.6 billion) and consumer credits (MFO.6 billion).
MF 2 billion represented loans to industry and hotels. BDM's term-lending
approvals to the industry and hotels since 1973 to end 1977 numbered 29 for
about FM 4 billion (see Annex 2). Of these, FM 2.4 billion in credits were
approved for 22 private projects, FM 1.0 billion for 4 mixed-ownership
projects and MF 0.6 billion for 3 public sector projects. BDM's equity
investments to date number only five, all of them taken at Government's



- 13 -
request, and amount to MF 823 million, including three investments in mixed
enterprises, one in CEPI and in the government's contribution to the Islamic
Development Bank.
2.14      Resources.  As of December 31, 1977, Central Bank rediscounting
provided 61% of BDM's total tesources, while deposits, primarily short-
term, accounted for 26% of total resources, foreign borrowings, excluding
clearing accounts for bilateral aid programs, provided 1% and BDM's own
equity, 12%. 85% of BDM's total resources were short-term in nature.
KfW credit lines, totalling DM 12 million, have provided 7% of BDM's term
resources and have financed all of BDM's term loans to private enterprises.
KfW lines of credit have 50-year maturities, including 10 years of grace,
and carry an interest rate of 4.5%. These loans have been on-lent at 7.5%.
Foreign exchange risk on these lines is entirely borne by Government.
2.15      Financial Position.  BDM's balance sheets and income statements for
the years 1975 through 1977 are summarized in Annex 3. BDM systematically
debits financial charges to all projects, including projects in arrears - an
unusual banking practice. BDM's profits have remained at a comfortable level,
amounting to MF 2.2 billion, or 1.9% of average assets and 17.5% of average
equity, in 1977. BDM's overall debt equity ratio as of December 31, 1977,
including BDM's rediscounted borrowings, stood at 7:1 as against 9.6:1 a year
previously. The ratio of term debt equity for the same period, reflecting
BDM's very low level of term borrowings, was only 0.5:1, practically unchanged
from the previous year. Specific provisions totalling MF 2.56 billion for
bad and doubtful debts represented 2.6% of the total portfolio (including
rediscounted credits). These provisions added to free reserves and retained
earnings covered almost 8% of the total portfolio. Reported arrears amounted
to MF 6.5 billion, up from MF 5.9 billion in 1976, of which MF 3.9 billion
were stated to be on public sector loans. BCM has refused, on credit-
worthiness grounds, to rediscount several BDM public enterprise loans. All
of these loans are in arrears and make up the bulk of the above amount.
2.16      As noted earlier, BDM's financial position is inextricably linked
to that of the state sector. If repayment were required on BDM's portfolio
of rediscounted credits to State enterprises, actual arrears would be substan-
tially higher than presently reported and would substantially exceed BDM's
capital. BDM would face insolvency. Therefore it cannot be considered an
acceptable direct intermediary for an IDA Project--or at least until a
substantial reform of the public enterprise system is instituted, with
adequate guarantees for BDM.
Banque Malienne de Credits et de Depots (BMCD)
2.17      Previously a regional branch of Credit Lyonnais, BMCD was incor-
porated under Malian laws soon after independence with the Government holding
50.1% of the shares and Credit Lyonnais the balance. With a share capital of
FM 500 million, BMCD is at present the second largest bank in Mali. Though
essentially a commercial bank dealing primarily with the private sector, BMCD
has nonetheless taken the lead in term-financing of several private indus-
tries and is also participating with BDM in a seasonal credit to one mixed



- 14 -
enterprise. BMCD is administered by a Board of six directors, of whom three
are appointed by the Malian Government, including the president. The Board
meets at least four times a year and appears to play an effective and active
role in the administration of the bank.
2.18      Crganization.  BMCD's total staff of 102, including 4 expatriates
is organized into four basic departments (operations, controllers, recoveries
and credit). The operations department, by far the largest with a staff of
70, includes all operationa:L units including cashiers, exchange, portfolio
and accounts. It is headed jointly by an expatriate from Credit Lyonnais and
a Malian. The credit department, which is also headed by an expatriate and
staffed with 5 analysts, processes all credit applications and administers
outstanding credits. The professional staff numbering 10 is generally of
good quality and fairly seasoned with several years of in-house experience
and training carried out at other similar banks in West Africa.
2.19      Procedures.  All credit applications including those for term-
financing of industrial projects are processed by the credit department.
Project appraisals focus primarily on financial, market, security and manage-
ment analysis, needing improvement on technical and economic aspects. As the
general manager's authority for credit approval is limited to MF 15 million,
most term-credits are submitted to the Board for approval.
2.20      Operations.  BMCD's term-lending operations are essentially limited
to medium-term rediscounted financing of some private industrial projects.
Since 1974, BMCD has financed with the other local banks, a total of six such
projects with aggregate investment of FM 2.5 billion of which BMCD's financing
represented MF 0.4 billion (see Annex 2). All these projects are located in
Bamako, four of them are owned in majority by private Malian entrepreneurs.
2.21      Financial Position.  BMCD balance sheets and income statements
which are summarized in Annex 3 show that BMCD's financial performance has
been satisfactory and profits have grown steadily. BMCD's financial position
appears adequate.
2.22      Extensive short-term lending to the private commercial sector has
enabled BMCD to sustain a high rate of growth. Total assets increased from
FM 6.8 billion in 1975 to FM 13.3 billion in 1977. Reserves, paid-in share
capital and retained earnings increased from FM 0.6 billion to FM 1.0 billion,
yielding a debt/equity ratio, not including contingent liabilities, of 12:1
(up from 10.1 in 1975) and 14.7:1 including these liabilities. The term debt
to equity ratio is, however, only 0.2:1.
Banque Internationale D'Afrique Occidentale (BIAO)
2.23      BIAO, a local branch of an international institution of the same
name, is the only 100% foreign owned bank in Mali. 1/ It is managed by a
French expatriate with a Malian assistant. BIAO is organized into four basic
departments (operations, portfolio, credit and administration) which are
directly supervised by the Malian Deputy General Manager and an ad-hoc regional
control unit headed by an expatriate which reports directly to the General
1/   Majority shareholder in the consortium is Banque Nationale de Paris.



- 15 -
Manager. BIAO's total staff numbers 106 of whom 10 are professionals. The
majority of the officers of the bank have been with BIAO for several years and
through in-house experience and training of sister banks in other countries
have developed a good degree of competence.
2.24      Procedures.  BIAO's regional manager is authorized to approve
credits up to FM 50 million. Above this figure, authorization from BIAO
Paris is required. The head office also sends out a team of inspectors once
or twice a year. As with BMCD, BIAO's project appraisal capacity, which is
essentially limited to financial and security considerations, needs improve-
ment on the economic aspects.
2.25      Operations.  BIAO's operations in Mali are largely limited to
financing of general commerce and, to a lesser extent, consumer loans, trans-
port and housing. Unlike BMCD, however, BIAO has been quite successful in
mobilizing local savings which have enabled it to give some long-term credits
for housing construction. BIAO's industrial term financing has been limited
to co-financing with BMCD of only two projects, both of them committed in
1978. As a result all outstanding term loans amounted to only FM 325 million
(3.7% of total portfolio) at end December 1977, representing primarily the
financing of housing or commercial buildings.
2.26      Financial Position.  BIAO's balance sheets and income statements,
summarized in Annex 3 show satisfactory financial performance. Total assets
in 1977 amounted to MF 10.5 billion up from MF 7.6 billion in 1976. Profits
after tax increased to FM 269 million in 1977 from FM 189 million a year
earlier, representing 2.9% of the average assets and almost 45% of the average
equity. Credits under litigation were reported to amount to FM 58 million
at end December 1977 or 0.7% of the outstanding portfolio against which
provisions totalled FM 44 million. BIAO's equity, including retained earnings
for 1977, amounted to FM 714 million, yielding a debt/equity ratio of 13.7:1
not including contingent liabilities and to 20:1 including these off-balance
sheet items. BIAO's financial position is sound.
Centre d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle (CEPI)
2.27      CEPI was established in March 1976 as an autonomous public commer-
cial establishment under the supervision of the Ministry of Industrial Devel-
opment and Tourism. To achieve its objective of industrial promotion, CEPI
was authorized by statute to
-    advise the Government on industrial policies and perform
related studies.
-    provide technical assistance and training and possibly
investment capital to Malian entrepreneurs and to help
prepare bankable investment projects; and
-    to inform and advise possible foreign investors in Mali.



- 16 -
2.28      Past Operations.  With UNDP encouragement and under pressure from
its Ministry, CEPI's activities in its initial two years focussed on advisory
services to the Government, studies of public enterprises and staff work to
the Investment Commission which awards industrial incentives. The industrial
promotion and technical assistance role was largely neglected, in the hope
that CEPI would play a presumably more important policy-mak-. g role. As a
result, CEPI remains relatively unknown in Mali, although its Director has
established good relations with many entrepreneurs, and it has as yet only a
limited working relationship with Mali's financial institutions or business
organizations. CEPI's primary output in this period were some 30 economic
studies and 15 preliminary proposals for large capital intensive projects.
Review of these proposals found the financial and market analysis minimal and
consideration of economic, management and training aspects absent. None of
these projects have been presented for financing, although seven have been
approved by the investment commission. Assistance to existing industries was
generally directed to public sector enterprises while small and medium-scale
enterprises were almost entirely excluded. This operating pattern produced
financial problems for CEPI, as fees from services rendered to entrepreneurs
were expected to be a major source of the agency's income.
2.29      Recent Activities.  With new encouragement from the Government, IDA
and UNDP, CEPI's management reviewed and revised its priorities in September
1978, deciding to focus CEPt's operations more directly on industrial promo-
tion and technical assistance. Although economic studies and promotion of
large industrial projects will continue to be a part of its activities, CEPI
has already initiated a strong nationwide program to make itself known to
Malian entrepreneurs and to expand its technical assistance services through
its new department of assistance to enterprises. In September 1978, CEPI's
Director also organized the Temporary Committee for the Promotion of Artisans,
composed of representatives of all relevant public agencies, to gain support
for an expanded program of assistance to Mali's artisans.
2.30      CEPI undertook its first national promotion campaign in November
1978 and plans to repeat these efforts periodically. This campaign has
yielded a pipeline of 25 projects proposed by local promoters and offering
reasonable prospects for implementation (Annex 4). Project size ranges from
FM 2 milion to FM 700 million with an average cost per job of MF 5.4 million
or US$12,000. Preparation work on these proposals is beginning and additional
promoters are now coming forward with other proposals for CEPI's assistance.
CEPI's service charge income from small enterprise clients has also substan-
tially increased in the last twelve months, reflecting these new contacts.
2.31      Management.  CEPI's 11-member board is chaired by the Minister of
Industrial Development. Other members include 7 representatives of various
ministries, 1 representative from the President's Office, the General Manager
of BDM and the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industries.  CEPI's
General Manager is required by CEPI's statutes to participate in the meetings
in a non-voting capacity.  The board meets only once a year and does not
appear to take a very active interest in CEPI's activities, although the
Minister is closely involved in daily operations.  Initially staffed by
UNDP-financed UNIDO technical advisors, CEPI had no full-time local Director
until June 1977, when the then Director of Industries in the Ministry of



- 17 
Industrial Development was appointed CEPI's first general manager. The
General Manager is able and has the necessary background and experience to
competently direct CEPI. His previous post put him in contact with most of
Mali's entrepreneurs and provided him a thorough knowledge of the workings of
the industrial regulation system.
2.32      Staff.  CEPI's staff, as of December 1978, totalled 31 of which
28 were Malians and 3 expatriate advisors. Malian professional staff,
which numbered 13, is capable but needs additional training. Under a UNDP
grant, initial training sessions for 6 Malian staff at ECC's Industrial
Development Center in Brussels have been organized. Further training for
which UNDP financing has been obtained here are to be scheduled over for
the next three years. All CEPI's staff have been considered employees of
the Ministry of Industrial Development rather than direct employees of
CEPI. Recruitment, hiring and pay scales, which are extremely low, have
been also controlled by the Ministry. Assurances have been received that
these arrangements will be modified to permit CEPI to hire its own staff
and offer more competitive salaries. Eventually, with private bank partici-
pation in its capital, CEPI will be reclassified as a mixed-enterprise to
free it from various civil service operating restrictions and permit it to
better compete for staff with private financial and business organizations.
2.33      Organization.  CEPI has been organized into two departments--project
promotion and studies, and administration and accounts. The promotion
and studies department, in which all technical advisors are located, is
organized into sectoral sub-groups responsible for the identification and
promotion of new investment projects and for studies for the Government and
public enterprises. In order to better meet its industrial promotion
objectives, CEPI is establishing a third department, Assistance to Enterprises,
to promote and provide technical assistance to local entrepreneurs as well
as to manage its Guarantee and Equity Participation Funds.
2.34      Technical Assistance.  CEPI has UNDP financing for five UNIDO
technical advisors, two of these positions are filled (an engineer and
an economist), the other three, primarily engineers, being recently vacated.
The present advisors do not have adequate capability to prepare projects
for financing, nor interest in small enterprise projects or field promotion
activities and better staff is being sought. UNDP financing is assured
through 1982. In addition, FED has provided a textile engineer, whose
financing ends in July 1979. In addition, CEPI has been assured financing
by FED of up to one man-year of consultancy on agro-industries. The
proposed IDA project will finance an additional position (para 3.17 below),
advisor to the new Department for Assistance to Enterprises.
2.35      Financial Management.  CEPI's administrative unit is small and
activities are of a basic bookkeeping nature. Presently, CEPI's books are
audited by a local Commissioner of Accounts whose reviews are not adequate



- 18 -
for IDA's requirements. As a condition of this project, annual audits
of CEPI's accounts by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to the
Association are required.
2.36      Financial Position.  CEPI's authorized capital of FM 500 million was
subscribed by the Government (50%), BDM (20%), BMCD (14.5%), BIAO (14.5%), and
the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (1%). As of December 1978, only FM 140
million of this capital was paid-in, FM 120 million by the Government and
FM 20 million by BDM. FM 100 million of the Government's payment was ear-
marked for the construction of an office building for CEPI and FM 20 million
for essential equipment. A schedule of payment of the balance of the Govern-
ment share, as well as those of BDM and the Chamber of Commerce, in 1980 and
1981, has been agreed. The first payments under this schedule have already
been received. Although neither BMCD nor BIAO is on CEPI's Board, Board seats
will be allotted to them as soon as they contribute the requested share
capital to CEPI.
2.37      Although financially autonomous by statute, CEPI has since inception
received annual subsidies from the Government covering office rent and the
salaries of its Malian staff. These funds have not been paid directly to CEPI
from the State budget, as would normally be the case with autonomous institu-
tions, but rather through the intermediation of. the Ministry of Industrial
Development. This intermediation arrangement has been ended at the request of
CEPI's Board to encourage CEPI's operational independence. Assurances have
been received that these subsidies will continue through at least 1983.
2.38      In 1977, CEPI incurred a net operating deficit of MF 9 million,
with outlays totalling MF 12.4 million, fee income MF 0.8 million and govern-
ment subsidies MF 2.6 million. In 1978 an operating deficit of MF 17.2
million was expected, on outlays of MF 42.6 million with fee income of
MF 1.6 million and government subsidies of MF 23.8 million.   Therefore
by the end of 1978, CEPI had a resource gap of MF 6.2 million. CEPI's
operating outlays in the 1979-82 project period are expected to total MF
390 million, half of which (MF 195 million) are expected to be covered by
government subsidies. Fee income originally not expected to total more
than MF 25 million through 1982, is now expected to exceed MF100 million in
this period based on 1979 performance. In 1982, CEPI would have a net
operating deficit of MF95 million and its total resource gap would exceed
MF120 million. Payment of CEPI's outstanding capital should cover its
resource gap and, together with continued improvement in service charge
income, as its expands its services to enterprises, should stabilize CEPI's
financial position by the end of the project period. CEPI's financial
position will be monitored closely during project implementation and arrange-
ments reviewed as needed.
2.39      Equity Participation and Guarantee Funds.  In order to assist small
Malian entrepreneurs to establish an adequate equity base for their industrial
projects and to facilitate their access to bank credits, CEPI has established
an Equity Participation Fun,i and a Loan Guarantee Fund. These Funds will be



- 19 -
managed by CEPI under the supervision of a management committee chaired by
the Minister of Industrial Development (or representative) and will
include the Minister of Finance (or representative), the General Manager of
CEPI, the General Manager of BDM, a representative of the local bank
delivering the credit and representatives of institutions participating in
the financing of these Funds. It has been agreed that the Central Bank
will be responsible for the administration of all accounts and financial
transactions. The Participation Fund's intervention in a project will
always be on a minority basis and will be limited in absolute amount to 5%
of the total resources of the Funds per project. The Guarantee Fund will
be authorized to guarantee up to 50% of the outstanding loan on a project
and exposure per project will be limited in absolute terms to 20% of the
Funds total resources. The Fund's total guarantees are initially limited
to two times its paid-in resources but could eventually increase to five
times the paid-in resources.
2.40      The resources to be allocated to these funds have tentatively been
fixed at MF 400 million for the Equity Fund and MF 600 million for the Guar-
antee Fund. UNDP has agreed to allocate US$50,000 a year over the next five
years towards these targets. In addition, the Government will authorize that
resources generated by the interest differential between the cost of the
IDA credit line to the Central Bank and the Central Bank on-lending rate be
applied to support these funds (see para. 3.13 below).
Union Laitiere de Bamako
2.41      Under this project, Union Laitiere de Bamako will be assisted to
expand its plant, to strengthen its management and to assure its financial
and operating autonomy within the State enterprise system. This program is
intended to guarantee the enterprise's long-term efficiency and viability
and thereby set a precedent for operation of state-owned businesses. ULB
was chosen for this role because of its attractive business and management
potential. It happens to be Mali's only milk processing company and there-
fore satisfies a basic nutritional need in Mali.
2.42      ULB was established, with technical assistance from FAO and a
grant from UNICEF, in 1967 as a wholly government-owned enterprise, primarily
to insure a regular supply of pasteurized milk and milk products to the hos-
pitals and schools in Bamako.  ULB started operations in 1969 and soon faced
difficulties due to large amounts of arrears from these institutions. ULB
therefor.e stopped selling milk to these institutions and directed its sales
to the private sector. Due to the insufficient quantity of raw milk avail-
able at reasonable prices from local sources, ULB also started utilizing
larger quantities of imported milk powder in its processing. Raw milk
represented only 1.6% of ULB's raw material inputs in 1977, down from 11%
in 1975 and 6% in 1976.
2.43      The Market.  ULB remains Mali's sole producer of pasteurized milk
products. Milk, when available, is an important element in the Malian diet.



- 20
Fresh milk products are preferred to powdered milk products.  ULB's market
area is the city of Bamako, where annual milk consumption totalled 9.1 million
liters in 1977, or 20 liters per capita. By comparison with the minimum
average per capita consumption of 33.3 liters per annum in rural areas,
and the Government's target of 42 liters per capita by 1985, Bamako's milk
requirements are far from being satisfied.  ULB presently pmovides 45% of the
milk consumed in Bamako, with the balance provided by imports (3.0 million
liters) and local unprocessed raw milk (2 million liters).
2.44      Raw Materials Supply.  Mali has no specialized milk producing
cattle breeds. Raw milk production is small and is largely consumed at the
farm or at least within the northern cattle region. Relatively little fresh
milk is therefore available in the Southern urban areas, such as Bamako. The
Government, which has proposed an increase in raw milk production from 203
million liters in 1977 to 288 million liters in 1985, has initiated a number
of pilot schemes and studies for the development of dairy cattle. The develop-
ment of a central coordinating agency, such as a milk policy board, to monitor
a coherent milk production and distribution program would facilitate the
achievement of these objectives. Given the unfavorable economics of Sahelian
dairy development, the low world price for milk powder, and Mali's substantial
livestock sector problems, it must be accepted that imported concentrated
milk and milk produced locally from imported powder will have to supplement
the supply of locally-produced raw milk, especially in urban areas, for the
reasonable future.
2.45      The World Food Programme (WFP) provided ULB's requirements for
milk powder and butter oil through 1977 under a program in which ULB was
required to contribute to a local bank account the CIF value of the inputs.
Funds in this account, which now exceed US$200,000 equivalent, are to support
the development of local milk production. Since 1977, milk powder and butter
oil have been provided under an EEC grant program. A new WFP five-year
program is being negotiated on similar terms as the previous arrangement.
2.46      Prices.  The prices of milk and milk products are not regulated
in Mali- except for ULB's inputs and products. The selling price of ULB's
pasteurized milk is currently set at FM160 per liter. Raw milk from tradi-
tional sources sells at prices varying between FM200 and FM300 per liter.
While this price differential gives a comparative advantage to sales of
ULB products, it makes it very difficult for ULB to procure raw milk for
its processing operations. Such a program is being considered to meet
specific local demands.
2.47      Production.  ULB was established with an inital capacity of 5,000
liters per day which was later expanded to 10,000 liters/day. The company
has, however, been operating at a rate of 15,000 liters per day since 1977
to meet demand. ULB's outputL presently represents 65% pasteurized milk,
30% cultured milk products, including yogurt, and 5% fresh butter. Details
on ULB's operations are provided in Annex 5.



- 21 -
2.48      Distribution.  ULB supplies milk to a limited number of shops in
town and to its single sales depot in the outskirts of Bamako. The major
share of ULB's current production is however sold at the factory. ULB's
distribution system will be expanded under the proposed project, to permit
refrigerated delivery to a wider clientele.
2.49      Managment and Organization.  ULB's Director is a qualified nutri-
tionist who has managed the company in a competent and dynamic manner since
1972. The company's management staff is experienced and competent but needs
strengthening; subordinate staff would perform better with technical training.
ULB's staff of 77 is organized into two departments: technical operations
and finance and administration. Separate departments for commercial activi-
ties and for equipment management and maintenance will be established to
permit improved operations in these two areas.
2.50      Equipment.  A list of present equipment is included in Annex 6.
Operation at above capacity levels for an extended period has led to deteriora-
tion in ULB's machinery and equipment, such deterioration being accelerated by
inadequate preventive maintenance. As a result, several key equipment items
need repair or replacement on an emergency basis, to prevent collapse of the
entire operation. Retroactive IDA financing of repair and replacement of
this equipment is recommended.
2.51      Performance.  ULB's performance has been quite satisfactory, as
described in Annex 5, but the continuity of its operations is jeopardized
by outworn equipment. Production has increased at an average annual rate
of 21% per annum during the last five years. Profitability has been good,
although actual profits declined from MF 25 million in 1976 to MF 15 million
in 1977, or 3% of sales. The decline resulted from the increase in the price
ULB was authorized to pay for raw collected milk. In December 1978, the
Government approved a 34% rise in ULB's selling prices, the first increase
since 1974. Assurances have been received that price modifications will be
granted whenever necessary to assure ULB will continue to have an adequate
return on its operations.
2.52      Financial Position.  ULB's financial statements are included in
Annex 5.  ULB's total assets at end 1977 amounted to MF 569 million, of
which MF 380 million represented its equity. ULB's debt equity ratio thus
remains quite low (0.5:1), indicating a substantial borrowing capacity for
the company. The overall financial position of the company is satisfactory
as is its liquidity position. The company is one of the few state enterprises
which have managed to maintain financial autonomy, primarily because of the
strong personality of its Director. ULB has retained its profits and banks
its own reserves, depreciation and other cash balances. The Government has
recently agreed to transfer ULB to the Ministry of Rural Development,
exempting it from the law requiring contribution of 85% of its profits to
the Government and otherwise guaranteeing it full financial and operational
autonomy, including retention of its reserves and profits. In addition,
assurances have been received that ULB will be granted those investment
code benefits and other fiscal advantages to which it is eligible and which
are necessary to assure sound execution of its expansion project.



- 22 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Main Features
3.01      T'h-is project has two parallel objectives.  It will make a start
towards improving the investment environment and incentive system in Mali
to encourage private productive inestments.  Furthermore, the project will
establish the first comprehensive program of financial and technical
assistance for Mali's long-neglected private entrepreneurs and artisans.
In another direction, a pilot rehabilitation project would be undertaken in
the state enterprise sector to demonstrate that financial and economic
viability may be achieved for certain state enterprises when efficient
management is allowed to operate under commercial conditions.
3.02      An IDA credit of US$8.0 million is recommended for this project
which would be implemented over a 2-1/2 year period, 1980 through 1982.
The proposed project would consist of two components:
(i)  US$5.2 million for support to the Malian private indus-
trial and traditional sector, including a line of credit
of US$3.5 million and US$1.7 million for a comprehensive
institution-building program.
(ii)  US$2.375 million for the rehabilitation and expansion of
Union Laitiere de Bamako (ULB), of which US$275,000 would
finance consultant services and staff training.
In addition, the credit would provide US$65,000 for a project coordination
unit and reimburse three advances on the Project Preparation Facility total-
ling US$360,000.
3.03      Background.  Initial Bank Group interest in Mali's industrial sector
focussed on improving the efficiency of the State enterprises, as an element
of the general dialogue on Mali's economic strategy. A broader interest in
strengthening the overall industrial sector was first proposed by a project
reconnaissance mission in May 1977. A preparatory consultant study of the
artisan sector, consultant feasibility studies of the rehabilitation of
selected public enterprises, a review of the industrial regulation policy,
start-up costs of technical assistance and pre-investment work on several
components were financed under three advances from the Project Preparation
Facility. This report sets out the findings of the appraisal mission which
visited Mali in December 1978.
B.   Project Description
Project Coordination
3.04      The project is complex, involving a variety of institutions and
services and several ministries. To assure well-managed and integrated
project implementation, a full-time, professional project coordinator will
be located in the office of the Minister of Plan to whom the Government
has given supervisory responsibility for this project. The Coordinator



- 23 -
whose terms of reference are included in Annex 8, will be responsible for
coordinating project start-up and execution and for assuring regular
reports from participating institutions. The Coordinator will also undertake
or contract for various studies needed to improve project execution, to
assist local institutions or to plan for follow-up assistance (i.e. studies
of local production costs, follow-up on training courses, profiles of small
enterprises). For these several purposes, the project coordinating unit
will be allocated US$65,000 under the project, for some operating expenses,
office equipment, a vehicle and studies. IPGP is expected to be the major
source of study assistance. The Government will assume the costs of
local personnel and related expenses.
3.05      Under this umbrella, CEPI will be responsible for coordinating
all technical assistance to the non-public sector (except the Banking
System), the Central Bank will be responsible for supervising all credit
activities and ULB will be responsible for the pilot public sector rehabili-
tation component. All credits provided within the project will pass
through the Central Bank and the banking system on exactly the same terms
and interest rate, whether the beneficiaries represent the public or
private sector, irrespective of size of enterprise.
Support to Private Industrial and Traditional Sectors
Line of Credit
3.06      The US$3.5 million line of credit would be on-lent to the Central
Bank of Mali for eventual use by Mali's three commercial banks under a system
similar to rediscount. All three banks would be eligible to submit projects
for financing under this line of credit. The Central Bank would review all
submissions to assure adequacy of data and presentation before forwarding
subprojects to IDA for consideration. Given the limited local experience in
term lending, there will be no free limit. Both modern and artisanal enter-
prises including cooperatives would be eligible for assistance under the line
of credit if their ownership is majority private. The program would be
coordinated by the Director of Credit of the Central Bank, who has assigned
to a capable deputy the full-time responsibility for managing this line of
credit.
3.07      A minimum of 35% (US$1.225 million) of the credit line would be
reserved for loans to artisans and to small enterprises having fixed assets of
less than MF 100 million (US$230,000) or with a cost per job (fixed investment
per job created) of MF 3 million (US$7,000) or less, to be called category I
projects. This category would be reserved to majority Malian-owned projects.
Simplified loan application and review procedures are being established, with
the help of a PPF-financed consultant (see para. 3.17), to facilitate these
lending operations. These loans would also be eligible for coverage by
CEPI's Loan Guarantee Fund, to encourage their consideration by the banking
institutions.



- 24 -
3-08      The balance of the line of credit would finance medium-scale
projects - category II projects. Projects which may not be either highly
labor-intensive or small-scale will be assisted in this category because there
is a justifiable need for assistance for viable larger projects and there is
no other source of funds but this credit to meet this need. All subprojects
in either category would be required to demonstrate economic and financial
viability. Several projects have been identified which appear appropriate for
financing under the credit line, ranging from a blacksmith cooperative to a
hardware factory (see Annex 4). Preparation of these projects is proceeding,
with technical assistance financed under the third PPF, to permit subproject
submission as soon as the credit is effective.
3.09      IDA would reimburse the full amount of the subloans under both
categories I and II, as long as such reimbursement does not exceed 90% of
total project cost for category I projects and 75% of total project cost for
category II projects, the latter coefficient estimated to be the total direct
and indirect foreign exchange costs of such projects. Local costs will
therefore be reimbursed for Category I projects.
3.10      Based on the present pipeline and proposed lending patterns, the
line of credit should assist at least 31 projects, as shown in Table 2 below:



- 25 -
Table 2
Subproject Financing Plan
Medium-Scale            %           Small-Scale
and Artisans           %
MF             US$                   MF             US$
(million)      (thousand)            (million)      (thousand)
Average total           154             351       100        27.7           63.6      100
Investment
Average bank (IDA)    111               252        72        24.2           55.6       87
Investment
Contribution of          43              99        28         3.5             12       13
entrepreneurs and
other sources
Number of Subproject                      9                                   22
Expected
Total Cost of         1,390           3,160                   615           1,400
Subprojects
of which IDA         1,000           (2,275)                 (539)         (1,225)
3.11      Terms of Transfer of Funds.  The US$3.5 million line of credit
would be made available to the Central Bank by the Government at an interest
rate of 2.0% p.a. plus a fee of 0.5% for Government assumption of the
exchange risk, such fee to be passed on to the investment projects. The
Central Bank would repay the Government according to the IDA amortization
schedule.   The Central Bank would pass on these funds to the three commercial
banks for refinancing of investment project under amortization schedules
determined on a project-by-project basis and an 8% interest rate plus the
Government fee for exchange risk. The commercial banks would then in turn
lend these funds to investment projects borrower at a 12% interest rate,
including the fee for exchange risk, with a commitment fee of 1.0%. The
commercial banks would therefore receive a reasonable margin of 3.5% on
these funds. The terms of these loans will be flexible with a maximum of
fifteen years and a minimum of thirty months. Terms are expected to
average seven years with eighteen months grace.
3.12      Interest Differential.  Out of the 8.5% interest rate the Central
Bank receives from the cmmercial banks, the Central Bank will take a 1% per
annum fee for its administrative expenses on this project and will pay the
Government 2.5% per annum. The net interest differential (5.0%) resulting
from these transactions would be deposited into a special Central Bank
account on the Government's behalf to support CEPI's Guarantee and Partici-
pation Funds for SEE and artisans.



- 26 -
3.13      Funds repayed on the initial loans made under this line of credit
would be directed to the Central Bank's term rediscount system, revolving
in this system over fifty years, subject to the IDA amortization schedule.
The majority of these resources are expected to be reserved to term loans
for sound private investment projects.
3.14      Conditions.  A Project Agreement specifying the above conditions
would be signed between IDA and the Central Bank. Signing of a Subsidiary
Agreement between the Central Bank and the Government specifying these
conditions for transfer of resources would be a condition of effectiveness
of this credit. The Central Bank would also issue refinancing instructions,
explaining the conditions of this line of credit; issuance of these instruc-
tions, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Despite the current restrictions on short-term credit expansion, the
Central Bank has confirmed that every effort will be made to assure
sufficient short-term working capital credits through rediscount to approved
subprojects to complement the term financing provided under the line of credit
so as to permit the sound operation of these enterprises. The Government has
agreed that the availability of this financing, and associated technical
assistance, will be actively publicized throughout the country.
Institution-building Program
3.15      US$1.7 million would finance a comprehensive institution building
program for the private modern and traditional industrial sector. This
allocation includes US$200,000 in contingencies. All assistance under
this component will be managed by CEPI, with the exception of the assistance
to the banking system, which would be managed by the Central Bank.
3.16      Assistance to Banking System - US$100,000.  Twelve man-months
of consulting assistance would be made available over a two-year period
through an allocation of US$100,000 from the credit to help the credit
managers of the three local banks and to the Central Bank to develop common
acceptable standards for subproject preparation, appraisal and supervision
and to become familiar with IDA project authorization and disbursement
procedures. The assistance would be provided on an as-needed basis by the
staff of other francophone development banks experienced in World Bank
industrial projects. The consultants would work under the supervision of
the Central Bank.
3.17      Strengthening CEPI -- US$350,000.  The development of CEPI into a
responsive business-oriented promotion and technical assistance agency is a
primary objective of this project. Toward this end the Association will
finance with an allocation of US$275,000, the salary and expenses of a full-
time advisor to the Service tco Enterprises section for a 2.5 year period.
This section is responsible for (i) promoting new investment proposals and
encouraging local businessmen to undertake productive projects; (ii) coordinat-
ing and channelling management and technical assistance to local entrepreneurs
during subproject preparation and implementation; (iii) helping entrepreneurs
prepare applications for banking assistance or for the investment code; (iv)
supervising the Equity and Guarantee Funds, in coordination with the banks;
and (v) overseeing the extension service and the promotion program to artisans



- 27 -
and small entrepreneurs. The IDA-financed advisor would help organize the
section, supervise project preparation and appraisal, help manage the Equity
and Guarantee Funds and coordinate the other technical assistance programs
financed by IDA under this project. The advisor would report to CEPI's
Director. In addition, the Association will provide US$75,000 for vehicles,
equipment and supplies for the new section and to help CEPI establish its
first regional offices.
3.18      Management Training - US$150,000.  Under the project IPGP would,
in coordination with CEPI, establish and execute a basic management training
program for local entrepreneurs. An IDA allocation of US$100,000 would
finance the salary and expenses for twelve months of one full-time foreign
advisor to IPGP to develop a detailed course plan for the program and to
supervise its initial execution. An addition US$50,000 will be allocated to
finance necessary materials and equipment. The curriculum for this program
has been developed by an expert under the IDA-financed Mali Education Project
in cooperation with CEPI and the Chamber of Commerce. The courses, to be
given part-time for 4-6 week periods, will be taught in local languages and
will emphasize visual techniques and basic skills. The actual training will
be provided and the program will be managed by the Malian staff of IPGP.
After the initial startup period, the program will be financed through charges
to participants.  Participants will be referred to the program by CEPI and the
Banks.
3.19      Extension Service for Artisans and Small Entrepreneurs - US$850,000.
A technical extension service would be established to offer practical skill
assistance in the field to Mali's artisans and small entrepreneurs. The
initial staff of the service would be a corps of foreign master artisans
representing several major technical trades, including woodworking, metalwork/
blacksmithing, light building trades and machine maintenance and repair, who
would train local counterparts to carry on this function. Under this project,
US$700,000 would be provided for the salaries and expenses of a minimum of
seven full-time man-years of such assistance over a two and one half year
period. Local costs would be included in this financing. A detailed terms
of reference for this program is included in Annex 9. The extension service
would help to organize artisan and entrepreneur associations, to improve
the technical and business skills of the members of these associations, to
develop common services programs (e.g. raw materials supply) and appropriate
technologies for these groups and to assist them in preparing credit requests
to local financial institutions. As there are few precedents for this type of
service in the non-rural sector, this program must be considered a pilot,
experimental effort and approached with appropriate flexibility. The long-term
objective of this assistance would be the establishment of a permanent and
relatively autonomous entrepreneur- and artisan-based network of associations
for apprenticeship credit and common services autonomous of existing official
institutions. However, for this project, the service would report to the
Director of CEPI and his Temporary Committee for Artisan Promotion. Therefore,
training of local artisans to eventually assume extension service responsibili-
ties is a crucial element of this component.



3.20      Fund for Export Craft Development.  Under this project, US$50,000
would be allocated to CEPI for a Fund to promote and develop Malian Craft
exports. A matching sum, from UNDP, would be allocated by CEPI to the Fund.
The Fund would finance studies and pilot projects to improve local crafts
production and expand export markets. Projects and studies costing more than
US$10,000 each would require prior approval of the Associatior.
3.21      Qualified counterparts for all advisors will be appointed within
three months of the recruitment of the advisors. The Government will be
responsible for the maintenance, operation and replacement of all equipment
provided.
Pilot Rehabilitation Project in State Sector
3.22      An IDA credit of US$2.375 million for the rehabilitation and
expansion program for ULB, including technical assistance, is included in
the project. Retroactive financing as of March 1, 1979 for US$200,000 for
emergency replacement of key equipment (see para 2.50) is included in the
above financing.
3.23      Investment Program.  The total cost of the proposed investment
program, including material, price and foreign exchange contingencies, is
MF 1.2 billion, or US$2.8 million equivalent (including taxes, of MF 165
million), of which US$2.2 million represents fixed investment and US$600,000
is permanent working capital. This program would increase ULB's production
capacity from 10,000 liters/day to 50,000 liters/day (13 million liters per
year) in 1985. Installation of the new plant would be completed by 1982;
production with the expanded installed capacity would increase gradually from
1982 to 1985. The fixed investment cost would finance a new factory building,
production and auxiliary equipment, an expanded laboratory, an equipment
maintenance workshop, furnishing, fixtures and vehicles, as detailed in the
investment program and equipment list in Annex 6. Cost estimates are based on
preliminary quotations obtained by consultants. Working capital requirements
would cover six months' stock of imported inputs, three months' stock of
spare parts, 1.5 days of finished goods inventory, 1.5 days' stock of work
in progress, 2.5 days of packaging materials, one month of receivables and
cash equal to one months' personnel expenditures. With the proposed factory
and collection system, ULB could process up to 4,000/liters per day of raw
milk if available, representing 8% of its expanded output. Alternatively,
powdered milk could supply the entire plant if necessary.
3.24      IDA Financing - US$2.1 million - The IDA financing would cover
100% of the fixed investment costs of the program, up to US$2.1 million,
net of taxes and including both local and foreign costs. The IDA financing
would cover 75% of the total program; ULB would finance 7.5% of the total
program, or US$215,000 equivalent, from cash generated from operations, and
7.5% with a term loan from its bank, BDM. The remaining 10% would be
provided by the Government as an equity contribution to ULB. A detailed
financing plan and financial and operational forecasts are included
in Annex 5.



- 29 -
3.25      Economic and Financial Benefits.  The calculation of financial and
economic rates of return over a fifteen-year horizon (1979-1994) is described
in Annex 7. As ULB could not continue operations without the new investment,
total benefits obtained after considering the residual value of existing
equipment, were assumed to accrue to the new investment. Present net worth
was assumed to represent the value of existing assets transferred to the new
investment. Investment code benefits would exonerate ULB from income taxes
from 1981-1985 (normal benefits for this type of investment). 1985 production
levels would be maintained thereafter. New machinery would not need to be
replaced (except for spare parts) during the period but vehicles would be
replaced every three years. The residual value of ULB's assets was assumed
equal to their book value at the end of the period. Of these assumptions, the
proposed investment in ULB yielded an internal financial rate of return of
33.5%. The economic rate of return would be equal to or higher than the
financial rate of return since all of ULB's inputs are in fact purchased at
world market prices (except for raw milk which is above world prices) and,
given the high unemployment rate in Mali, the shadow price for unskilled labor
should be substantially below its financial cost. In the absence of an
international price for liquified milk, a border price cannot be calculated
for MLB's final products. A shadow price based on available alternatives and
willingness to pay would be the present, scarcity price for raw milk products,
use of which would grossly inflate the estimate economic benefit for this
project.
3.26      The company's debt/equity ratio never exceeds 1.5:1 during the
forecast period; debt service coverage is acceptable throughout, as is
liquidity. Profitability is good and increasing. Net profit represents
9.1% of sales in 1979 and 0.3% in 1980 (the beginning of the installation
period), rising to 5.0% in 1981, increasing steadily thereafter. Return on
assets and equity is satisfactory. The company's financial position would
remain sound.
3.27      Technical Assistance - US$275,000.  The Association will also
finance up to 15 months of consultant assistance to ULB for the implementation
of this program and 5 man-months of technical assistance by I.P.G.P., up to
an amount of US$250,000, including contingencies. The consultants will
provide 5 months assistance in investment preparation (preparation of spe-
cifications, review of tenders and bids) and equipment installation, five
months assistance in dairy management and four months assistance in staff
development. The I.P.G.P. assistance will focus on improvement of internal
management practices. US$25,000 is also provided to finance training programs
for ULB staff.
3.28      Terms and Conditions.  The IDA funds for this investment would
be on-lent through the Central Bank and banking system on the same terms as
the line of credit for private enterprise, including the 12% final lending
rate plus commitment fee. The loan would have a term of twelve years includ-
ing four years of grace.  The Government will assume the exchange risk.  ULB
will be given normal investment code benefits for its new investment program.
ULB will agree to undergo an annual independent audit of its accounts by
qualified auditors acceptable to IDA.



- 30 -
Project Monitoring
3.29      IJith the oversight of the Project Coordination Unit, all project
institutions will be required to submit regular semi-annual operational and
financial reports. The Central Bank would report periodically on all oper-
ations undeL the line of credit. CEPI would submit detailed financial,
organizational and operational data, focussing on its promotion, technical
assistance and training services as well as details on the operations of
the guarantee and equity funds. CEPI would also be responsible for regular
reports on the Crafts Development Fund. I.P.G.P. would submit regular oper-
ational reports on its training programs and finances. ULB and its IDA-
financed consultants would submit periodic progress reports on the investment
program in addition to ULB's financial statements. The Association would
also receive copies of all independent audit reports.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
Project Costs and Financing
4.01      Total project costs are estimated to be US$11.1 million, includ-
ing US$500,000 in taxes. The foreign exchange component would be US$6.4
million, or 60% of net project costs. Project costs and the proposed
financing plan are summarized in Tables 3 and 3a.  The Bank Group's share
in project financing would be US$8.0 million or 76% of net project costs,
covering US$6.3 million of the foreign cost component as well as US$1.7
million towards local costs. The Bank Group's contribution covers all
foreign exchange costs of th eproject except for the foreign exchange
component of ULB's working capital requirements for the rehabilitation
project. These funds, totalling US$185,000, would be provided as needed
over time by ULB's self-generated funds. IDA's contribution to local
costs is composed as follows:
(US$'000)
Credits to Small and Artisan Enterprises                            240
ULB equipment and Construction                                      910
ULB technical assistance                                             80
Institution Building Program of which:                              435
Export Craft Fund                                                (20)
Management Training                                              (40)
Extension Service                                               (160)
CEPI                                                             (90)
Assistance to Banking System                                     (25)
Project Coordinator                                                  30
PPF Reimbursement                                                    40
1,735



- 31 -
MALI
Table 3: Project Costs
MF Millions                        US$ Thousands
Taxes   Local   Foreign   Total        Taxes   Local   Foreign   Total
Line of Credit
Small-Scale & Artisans                        26      155        435     615          60     355        985   1,400
Medium-Scale Projects                         70      320      1,000   1,390         160     725      2,275   3,160
96     475      1,435   2,005         220/1 1,080       3,260   4,560
Credit ULB
Construction                                  17      216         92     325         40      490        210      740
Equipment                                     25      184       432      642         60      420        980   1,460
Working Capital                               30      154         81     265         65      350        185      600
72     554        605   1,232         165/1 1,260       1,375   2,800
Supplies, Equipment, Vehicles
Coordinator                                    2        2          9      13          5        5         20       30
Management Training                            2        9         13       24         5      20         30       55
Extension Service                              4       22         44      70         10       50        100      160
CEPI                                           2       11         22      35           5      25         50       80
10      44         88      142         25      100        200      325
Technical Assistance & Training
Coordination Unit                              2        9          9      20           5      20         20       45
Banks                                          2       11         33      46           5      25         75      105
Management Training                            2        9         35      46           5      20         80      105
Extension Service                             13       93        215     321         30      210        490      730
CEPI                                           6       26         95     127         15       65        210      290
ULB                                            4       35         75     114          10      80        170      260
29     183        462      674         70      420      1,045   1,535
Export Craft Development Fund
Studies and Supplies                           -       31         13      44          -       70         30      100
Operating Costs
Coordinator                                    -        7          -       7          -       15          -       15
CEPI Equity                                    -      380          -     380          -      865          -      865
CEPI Budget Support                            -     125           -     125           -     285          -      285
-     512          -      512          -   1,165           -   1,165
Contingencies                                       -        -         99       99          -        -        225     225
Reimburse PPF                                       -       17        141      158          -       40        320      360
TOTAL           207   1,816       2,843   4,866         480   4,135      6,455  11,070
1/  Expected to benefit from investment code exonerations from duties on imported goods.



MALI
Table 3a: Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ millions)
Banks and
Government for      Other Local          CEPI           Local non-
IDA    ULB   ULB   Coord. CEPI    Sources and    Participation    Government             Total
Unit           Entrepreneurs         Fund         Institutions
Line of Credit
SSE and Artisans                  1,225                                     175                                             1,400
Medium Scale                      2,275                                     885                                             3,1j
3,500                                   1,060                                             4,560
Credit ULB
Construction and Equipment        2,100          100                                                                        2,200
Working Capital                       -   110   285                                                             205           600
2,100   110   385                                                             205         2;800
Exoort Craft Development Fund
Supplies and Studies                 50                                                       50                              100
50                                                      50                               100
Supplies, Equipment & Vehicles
Coordinator                          25                   5                                                                    30
Management Training                  50                          5                                                             55
Extension Service                   150                         10                                                            160
CEPI                                 75                  _       5                                                             80
300                  5      20                                                            325
Technical Assistance & Training
Coordinator                          40                  5                                                                     45
Banks                               100                                                                           5           105
Management Training                 100                          5                                                            105
Extension Service                   700                         30                                                            730
CEPI                                275                         15                                                            290
ULB                                 250    10                                                                                 260
1,465    10             5     50                                                5         1,535
Operating Costs
Coordinator                                             15                                                                     15
CEPI Equity                                                    525                                             340            865
CEPI Budgetary Support                                         285                                                            285
15    810                                              340         1,165
Reimburse PPF                          360                                                                                       360
Contingencies 1/                       225                                                                                       225
8,000   120   385    25    880          1,060               50                550        11,070
1/ On non-credit items.



- 33 -
4.02      Technical Assistance.  Financing for technical assistance under all
components in this first industrial sector operation in Mali would total
US$1.665 million including contingencies or 21% of the total credit, with an
additional US$375,000 for vehicles, supplies and equipment, including
contingencies, for these assistance programs. This institution-building
investment is composed of:
Expert Services
9.5 man-years                               US$1,180,000           (75%)
of which salaries                               550,000
reimbursable expenses                        525,000
contingencies                                105,000
Consultancy and Engineering Services
60 man-months                               US$485,000             (25%)
of which fees                                265,000
reimbursable expenses                     175,000
contingencies                              45,000
US$1,665,000           (100%)
4.03      The average cost of expert services, including contingencies,
is expected to be equivalent to US$10,400 per man-month, local and all
other costs included, of which approximately 50% represents reimbursable
expenses (housing, transport, travel, etc.). The average cost of short-
term consultancy including contingencies, should equal US$8,100 per man-month,
local and all other costs included, of which approximately 40% represents
reimbursable expenses; these average costs are lower than those for expert
services because of the amount by locally-purchased consulting services
included The qualifications, terms and conditions of employment would be
subject to IDA approval. All counterparts for technical advisors shall be
appointed within three months of recruitment of the advisors.
4.04      Procurement.  All procurement for ULB for equipment with a
value greater than US$50,000 would be conducted according to IDA guidelines
for international competitive bidding. Local financial institutions will
follow normal DFC procurement procedures and other institutions will follow
local competitive bidding procedures.
4.05      Disbursement.  The Central Bank will submit disbursement applica-
tions for credit components of the project (line of credit and ULB investment)
and the technical assistance to the Banking System. For the line of credit,
IDA will disburse 100% of approved subloans up to specified guidelines (para
3.09). For the nLB investment, IDA will disburse 100% of costs for the fixed
investment part of its rehabilitation program, also against Central Bank
certification. All disbursements will be fully documented under normal
procedures. CEPI will submit disbursement requests for the institution building
component for which IDA will reimburse 100% of costs.  ULB will submit disburse-
ment applications for its IDA-financed engineering and training services for



- 34 -
which IDA will also disburse 100% of costs. The Minister of Plan will
submit disbursement applications for the coordinator, again with IDA
reimbursement of 100% of costs. Quarterly statements of past and projected
disbursements under their respective project components will be copied by
each of the agencies cited above to the Project Coordinator, to facilitate
his overall monitoring responsibilities.
4.06      The non-credit proceeds of the IDA credit would therefore be dis-
bursed as follows:
(a) 100% of the costs for expert services, consultancy and
training and related contengencies (US$1.665 million).
(b) 100% of the costs of supplies, equipment and vehicles
for the extension service (US$150,000), CEPI (US$75,000),
the management training program (US$50,000) and the
coordinator (US$25,000), with contingencies
(US$25,000), including taxes.
(c)  Materials, equipment and expert services for Export Craft Develop-
ment Fund (US$50,000).
(d)  Reimbursement of P?roject Preparation Facility (US$360,000).
A schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 12.
Project Benefits and Justification
4.07      The proposed project should help Mali better realize its industrial
growth potential by strengthening key institutions in the sector, providing a
nucleus of essential technical support, assuring access to investment credits
and improving the investment environment for Mali's private entrepreneurs and
artisans while participating in the Government's step-by-step efforts to
rationalize the inefficient State enterprise sector. It is expected that our
participation in the rehabilitation of one enterprise, ULB, will strengthen
its position as a model of sound commercial enterprise management in this
sector.
4.08      The project will result in more than US$4.5 million in industrial
investment, based on an IDA line of credit of US$3.5 million, creating employ-
ment for more than 400 persons, at a cost per job of below US$9,000. The
expected cost per job is quite reasonable for modern sector industry in Mali,
given the enormous expense cf importing any equipment or capital goods into
this landlocked country and the extraordinarily high local construction and
infrastructure development costs. Every effort will be made by subproject
review and expert advice to encourage reduced capital intensity in the modern
sector through application of appropriate technology in project design. In
addition, the extension service will encourage increased participation of the
labor-intensive traditional sector in the credit and investment process, from
which the employment expected to result should utilize much smaller amounts of
capital. Establishment of the Export Crafts Development Fund, will explore



- 35 -
mechanisms to permit Mali's most labor-intensive producers to exploit a new
market for their wares.
4.09      In addition to its precedent-setting benefit, the actual investment
in ULB should create 79 new jobs while protecting 77 existing jobs that would
have been lost if the rehabilitation investment were not q%i zkly undertaken.
Moreover, as described in para. 3.27 above, this investment yields an economic
rate of return exceeding 33%. This component also is helping to meet a basic
nutritional need by increasing the supply of a high-protein food source in
Mali's major urban area.
4.10      The most important outcome of this project, however, should be the
development of a network of institutions and services - financial, technical,
educational - and the improved policy structure essential for the long-term
balanced development of the industrial sector.
Risks
4.11      Every effort has been made to learn from recent similar projects in
the region in designing this project. Within this framework, one risk might
be identified: the willingness of modern institutions to assist the tradi-
tional artisan community and therefore the probability that available assis-
tance might actually reach this community. With regard to the first issue,
this concern is somewhat justified, if only because modern bureaucratic
procedures are so foreign to the artisan community. For these reasons, the
extension service proposed for this project is designed to help the artisans
organize themselves, to define their needs and to claim from these institu-
tions the financial and other assistance available, rather than wait for these
relatively sophisticated institutions to offer assistance. In addition, the
procedures for claiming this assistance will be simplified for this group.
Moreover, as long as the Government allows the establishment of the initial
services the artisans themselves can maintain them. Furthermore, the attach-
ment of most Malians, even the most sophisticated, to the traditional society,
should not be underestimated - there is a willingness to help, although some
flexibility may be required. In view of the expected benefits of
the project, this risks is worth taking.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      An IDA Credit of US$8 million to the Government of the Republic
of Mali is recommended for this project. The Central Bank of Mali would
be the recipient of a US$3.5 million line of credit to be on-lent to it by
the Government on the IDA amortization schedule with a 2% interest rate,
plus a 0.5% fee for coverage of the foreign exchange risk, this fee to be
passed to the final borrowers which should be non-public investment projects.
The central Bank would receive an additional US$2.1 million on the same
terms which it would in turn on-lend through the banking system to partially
finance a rehabilitation program for the Union Laitiere de Bamko (ULB), a
public enterprise. The remaining US$2.4 million would have the following
beneficiaries:



- 36 -
US$100,000      Assistance to the Banking        The Central
System                          Bank and local
commercial banks
US$275,000      Consultancy and training         ULB
services
US$1,550,000    Institution-building             Through CEPI for IPGP,
assistance (expert services,   CEPI and Extension Service
equipment and supplies)
US$50,000        Studies and Pilot Projects      Through CEPI for Export
Crafts
US$65,000       Project Coordinator              Ministry of Plan
US$360,000                                       Reimbursement of PPF
5.02      During negotiations, assurances were received on the following
points:
a)   Line of Credit
1) On-lending terms and conditions, to be reflected in a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Bank circular (para. 3.07-3.15).
2) Availability of rediscounted working capital credits to
complement term loans under the line of credit (para. 3.15).
b)   CEPI
1) Financial program (para. 2.38).
2)  Independent personnel policies (para. 2.32).
3)  Annual Independent Audit (para. 2.35).
c)   ULB
1)  Guarantees of long-term financial autonomy (para. 2.52).
2)  Assurance of review of pricing structure whenever necessary
to allow continued sound commercial operation (para. 2.51).
3)  Annual independent audit (para. 3.30).
4)  All procurement for equipment valued at more
than US$50,000 will be conducted according to
IDA guidelines for international competitive
bidding (para. 4.04).



- 37 -
d)   Establishment of Project Coordinator in Cabinet of Minister
of Plan with appropriate operating guidelines (para. 3.05).
e)   Eligibility of small enterprises for investment code benefits
(para. 1.27).
f)   A public information program for proposed services and assistance
(paras. 3.15 and 3.23).
g)   Counterparts for all advisors would be appointed within three
months of advisors' recruitment (para. 3.23).
h)   Cooperation with IDA reporting requirements by all project
institutions (para. 3.31).
5.03      With the above conditions fulfilled, the proposed project would
be suitable for a credit of US$8 million.



- 38 -
ANNEXES



-  39  -                    ANNEX I
MALI
Credit Allocation
(FM billions)
Dec. 31, 1974    Dec. 31, 1975    Dec. 31, 1976    Dec. 31, 1977    Z
Total Outstanding
Credit              128.4              168.9              195.1             203.9       100.0
- of which
Government           (58.7)            (66.7)             (72.5)             (97.3)/    (47.7)
- of which State
Enterprises          n.a.)              n.a.)             (86.0)             (73.1)/2   (35.9)
- of which other            ) 69.7             )102.7
(private)            n.a.)              n.a.)             36.6               33.5       (16.4)
Non-Governmentl/                                                                     /
short-term           (64.8)            (96.8)            (116.2)           (100.0)/    (49)l3
Non-Government/         (2.6)              (2.9)             (2.9)              (2.7)       (1.3)
medium-term
Non-Governmenti/        (2.2)              (2.9)             (3.5)              (3.2)       (1.6)
long-term
Total Outstanding
Rediscounted Credits 96.3              127.5              151.2             151.4       100.0
- of uhich
Government           (54.2)            (62.7)             (69.5)            (92.7)2-   (61.2)
- State Companies      n.a.)              n.a.)             (79.5))            (57.8)/2   (38)/2
) 42.1            ) 64.8              )81.7            )58.7
- Other (private)      n.a.)              n.a.)              (2.2))             (0.9))      (0.6)
I/
Non-Government- ..                                                                   /2
short-term          (41.0)             (62.7)             (80.8)-           (57.9)12    (38)!3
Non-Government-/
medium-term           (1.1)             (1.0)              (0.9)              (0.8)       (0-5)
Non-Government-/       (40.8)             (62.9)            (80.8)             (58.6)      (99.8 
BDM
Non-Government
thru other banks    (1.3)               (1.9)              (0.9)             (0.1)       (0. L
Source: Banque Centrale du M-ali
1/ Non-Government includes State Enterprises and private but excludes the
Government's own account.
2/  From 1976 to 1977, MF 16 billion was transferred from the account of one
State Enterprise to the Government's own account. In the absence of this
shift, state enterprises would remains the primary borrower.
3/ As a percentage of total credit.
4/ As a percentage of total non-Government rediscount.



- 40 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
List of Proiects Approved by Commercial Banks
(FM million)
Total
Investment  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978
BMDC
Comafrique (Housing)              6,5%      144        20     -      -
Somapil (Batteries)               6,5%      461        73
Solmali (Iron Sheets)             7,5%      500                          108
Somabipal (Pasta)                 7,5%      396                           95
Sada Diallo (Plastic)             7,5%                                           60
Somapec (Paint)                   7,5%      194                                  54
2,495        93                 108   114
BIAO
Peyrissac (Housing Constructlon)             95         -    32             -     -
Tolmali (Iron Sheets)                                                     36
Sada Diallo (Plastic)                                                            48
Socopao (Hangar)                                                                 56
-X5             32           36   104



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
BDM - List of Approved Projects             Page 2 of 2
(FM million)
Amount of Invest.           Credit Amount
1973                                                              Medium-term  Long-term
(S) EMAB (wood working)                       ?                   239
(P) Hotel les Hirondelles                    460                  142
1974
(P) Boulangerie Moderne                       57.1                  -          37.0
(t) Somagal (ice making)                      82.1                  _          52.0
(P) Soato (coffee roasting)                   98.5                  -          79.0
(P) Baba Diamara (garage)                    167.3                  -         146.0
(P) Cemafric (furniture)                     132                    8           _
1975
(P) Famac (batteries)                        709.7                 40         179
(P) Somepac (boxes)                       2,032.7                 661         320
(S) CMTR (transport)                           ?                  244           -
(S) CMN (navigation)                           ?                   58
(P) OCINAM (cinema)                            ?                   13.0         -
(P) Stationary                                                     40.0         -
(P) Electronic installation                    ?                   12.0         -
1976
(P) Transport                                  4.0                  4.0
(P) SAG. (wood-cutting)                      246.8                  -         160
(P) Renor Auto (garage)                      178.8                  -         128
(P) B. Traore (ice making)                   128.5                  _          63
(P) SOMASAC (bag factory)                      ?                   80           -
(M) EDM (Energy of Mali)                       ?                    -         258
(M) SEMA                                       ?                    -         299
(P) Hotel Majestic                            70.0                 42           -
(P) Transport                                 40.0                 14           -
1977
(M) Amitie (hotel)                             ?                  232           -
(M) CMDT (cotton gin)                                             250           -
(P) Somapil (batteries)                      425                  110           -
(P) Sambard Trare (mechanical)                93                   41           _
(P) Transport                                 45                    4           -
Summary of Projects Financed by BDM
Number of Projects                    Medium-Term          Long-Term        Total
1973          2                                  381                 -              381
1974         5                                     8               314              322
1975          7                                1,072               499           1,571
1976         9                                   136               908           1,044
1977         6                                   662                 -              662
29                                2,259      +      1,721      =    3,980
Of which:  Private:  22 enterprises for total of 2,400 million.
Mixed:      4 enterprises for total of 1,039 million.
Public:    3 enterprises for total of   541 million.



SUMMARIZED INCOME STATEMENTS OF THE THREE PRIMARY BANKS
(MF million)
BDM                       BMCD                        BIAO
Income                                         1975    1976    1977        1975    1976    1977        1975    1976    1977
Income from loans and advances              4,621   5,422   6,874         515     544      737        432     517      770
Commissions                                   246      187     271        312     279      403        233     286      376
Other income                                  541      597     407          -       -        -         10      13       22
5,408   6,206   7,552        827      823   1,140        675      816   1,168
Expenses
Operating expenses                          1,147   1,263   1,382         212     323      431        313     373      521
Financial costs                             2,158   2,762   3,598          75      72      127         36      39       72
3,305   4,025   5,980        287      395     558        349      412     575
Gross operating income                        2,103   2,181   2,572         540     428      582        326     404      575
Less:  Provisions                             600      982     565        221      68       85         14       9       15
Depreciation                            53     355      281         23      33       25         8       12       18
653   1,337      846       244      101     110         22       21      33
Gross Earnings                                1,450      844   1,726        296     327      472        304     383      542
Plus or (minus)
0r X
. net exceptional profits (or losses)
previous years                         230     164      534        29       91       50         -       (5)      (4)   0
. income tax                                 -       -        -       (164)   (212)   (265)      (152)   (189)   (269)
230     164      534      (135)   (121)  (215)        (152)   (194)   (273)
NET PROFIT                                    1,680   1,008   2,260         161     206      257        152     189      269



MiMARIM  DALN   UT S 0? 5M        U    fIMIY MAJF
(w  misll-)
5151w                                                     aim3 355                                                                mm                                                         Dim5
L1bilittesi                                   1975     1976     1977        1975     1976     197776 I1977                           Ast.                                       1975     1976     1977        1971     1976      1977       1975      1976     1977
Sal,t ter-  IA-b11ite                                                                                                                Liiqd eS"et.
C6ech-iog  -c-et.                                                         867    1,292    1,359                                      Cook, bSeks .5d Ce,tr.1 I..             1,243    1,137    1,609          65      201      528       1,306    1,423       636
--lt,,t erosets                           11,695   15,240   14,290      2,5116    2,223    2,30       1,884    1,714    1,907         hr.g i   ek. a ed Corrwse et.         3jW       ?. 704    3O           837    1. 4    1.122          92     ,_
Siho,-tert d0295t1.                        37,481    5,195    8.885        103      464      575      1.742    2,707    2                                                   3,625    3,842    4,414          902    1,340    1,650       1,398    1,456       636
tot.l short-t.r. dry  fIt              )5,171,  18,455  25,175        3,522    5,979    4,238      5,626    4,017    4,291    REort-t-r. Aest.
h,ks sed Corr.-..Po4te                    2,640    1,772    1,889       1,496       237     8a6         775       1i5    1,089       cO25 c    cWt.
Misc creditor. nd other thort-term                                                                                                   Ord? rtt                                3,483    3,865    6,173       2,501    2,653    6,595       3, 587    3,368    4,7ai
lihbiliti..             14 536  8,.72    7.874                        1.165              707    8       4    1._590p   2.615
aurt-tee'. crd1t.                     14.90  163.8.    I17.6        i2.7       h..                           ____ .5  151 
total .hort-ter-  1.hbilitlie          52,150   28s579   32,938      6,183    8,0o64    2, 171     6,153    5,622    7.933                                               14,8    2674 2 61               253    6O    40,483          1.,715     ,        ,
18,38%   20,67s4   23,9!h1     5,253    6,7s3   io,643       4,715    4.909    8,'s75
Tr.  Libllltiu                                                                                                                         B..dry d bto. ae   tr ohort-
te. ae.-to                          10710      58         784J       E 522    513       651        822       860    1.OdO
2S-iDg3  ...-totC                             13       65      152           -        -        -        510       788    1,325           ott    brt-tem ue..ta             2S,492   28,189   32,730        5,775    7,266   11,274       5,537    5.769    9,475
?ioed-te,s deplo9its                        940    869       1,193         56        34       77        133      654       489     -rtfolio
T7r, bOrroelr5g  (sotorn l)                4,261    42       5 429           _      __Il_-tm  rrdits                                                                           910      899    1.670          74       137       97        178       189      115
5,214    5,863    6,774          54       34      177      643       1,642    1,814       1W-t.  Cr mdt.                          3,437    4,404    4,tl6           -        -         -         14       106      210
Equity                                                                                                                                 rq.ity i.stn t                             2_
totel portfollo                     4,672    5,668    7,,99          71       137       9'        192       295      325
Sh-...p Cytl                              3,OCO    5 5,0 05,00o           350      500       500       2         500      40      D.*t    4.6, 48 t5,6e                                        6,5er
Oltl5io                             6,480o    5,877    6,509           -        -         -          .         -        -
Free r      .s'rs                           253    2,088    4,614         101        89      259
RetW-ped e rnng.                          2,523    i, 680        _          7         5        7                                   list Fid .5tse                           2,746    2,919    2,525          101      155       350         49       62        86
TOUL       5                            46.015   463   53J657          6.852      898   1-7fl1        7.176    7.      10.522
Allod.ted ro-erryrs                            -        -    1,490
froo1sion for b.4 .5D dh,btifl d.bt.      1,196    2,137    2,561                             29         29       29       41
Profit (l,s) for the ye.r                1 680    1,01    2,260          161       206      257         -        1H9      270
Tt.l I61L1y                               8,651   11,915   13,925        615       800    1,.V          ml       518      714
T1 . l-billties                             46,015   46,355   5637         6,952    8,898   13,371      7,1T7    7 582   10,521
M/ t i.cl.dpe oPratio-.s o-ried out Os redt.oo..ted fund ,bh Ace .os.ist.nt oith teo 0tin5  qactle.  iL  _t freoo-    ao.tr6., hs  .bal o                        ..-.elese itim, 65 boele
Cf,tim5est lisbhIltli-                      n                             3,183    2,337    2,748       2,206    3,381    4,673
of .,hlch 62M red.oOru, ed bilLs            63,900   80,90O   58,600         900      825       73           -        _



_44  -                             ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
BDM
Resource Position
Cas of December 31,1977)
Short term resources                      MF billion               %
Deposits                                   23.2
BCM rediscounting                          37.8
81.0       85%
1/
Medium and long-term resources
Deposits                                    1.3
BCM rediscounting                           0.8
KfW loans                                   1.0
3.1       3.2%
Equity
Share capital, reserves and retained
profits                              9.8
Allocated reserves                          1.5
11.3       11.8%
Total Resources                           95.4
1/ Plus MF 4.4 billion in clearing accounts for bilateral aid programs.



-  45  -                             . 4
Page 1 of 2
CEPI: Pipeline of Projects
Total           Projected
Project                   Location             Investment         Employment
(FM millions)
1.  Ice Cream Factory          Bamako                   28.2                5
2.  Cement I'iles              Segou                    30                  9
3,  Travel Agency              Bamako                   45                 15
4.  Bakery                     Dioila                   48                 16
5.  Bakery                     Koutiala                 48                 16
6.  Envelope Factory           Bamako                   86                 15
7.  Agricultural Equip.        Bamako                   96                 25
8.  Kopak Shelling             Koulikoro              .122                 22
9.  Gravel Quarry for
Public Works              Bamako                  700                 50
10.  Notebook Factory           Bamako                1,125                284
11.  Softdrink Factory          Bamako                  400                 26
12.  Galvanized Metal
products                  Koulikoro              125                  32
13.  Fish Refrigerator          Markala                 150                 12
14.  Plastic Shoes              Bamako                  127                 32
15.  Insecticides,Detergents,
Soap                      Bamako                 450                  24
17.  Insecticides (Mosquito)   Bamako                   250                 15
18.  Nuts and Bolts             Segou                   160                 -
19.  Perfume and Cosmetics      Bamako                  238                 65
20.  Assembly and Repair of
Refrigerator Equip.        Bamako                 443                  37
21.  Industrial Detergents      Bamako                  -                   -
22.  Paper Processing and
Chalk Production          Bamako                  86                  26
23.  Chicken and Pork
Products                  Bamako                  -
24.  Cinder Blocks              Bamako                   69                  9
25.  Notebook Factory           Segou                   -
26.  Thread Factory             Segou                   -
27.  Expansion of Paint
Factory                   Bamako                 -
28.  Steel Wool                 Segou                   -
29.  Candy Factory              Segou                   -



-  46 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
MALI
Analyses of Pipeline
Sub-sector                     Number of           Total        No. of    Average
projects         Investment       Jobs     cost/ ob
(MF million)              (MF million)
Textiles                           2                122            22         5.5
Metal working                      5                824            94         7.1
Food processing                    7                674           73          9.2
Construction material              3                799           68         11.8
Chemical                           6             1,065            65         16.4
Misc.                              5              1,342           340         3.9
28             4,466           662          6.7



_  47  -                   ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
UNION LA2TIERE DE BAMAKO (ULB)
Recent and Forecast Xiiancial Statements and Assumptions
1. Production
Sustained by a high demand for its products, ULB's production
has grown rapidly in the past. From 660,000 liters in 1970, it reached
4.1 million liters in 1977, representing an annual growth rate of close
to 30% per annum. Output at the level reached in 1977 is the maximum
ULB can expect to produce with its existing equipment. Hence production
for 1978 and 1979 is assumed to remain at 1977 levels, i.e., 4.1 million
liters. With the installation of emergency equipment in 1979, an increase
of 10% can be expected. Most of the new machinery should be installed by
the end of 1980. Production from 1981 onwards is therefore projected to
increase progressively from 5.9 million liters (i.e. 23,000 liters/day) in
1981 to full production capacity of 13 million liters (50,000 liters/day)
in 1985.
2. Sales income
Given the high demand for ULB's products and due to their perishable
nature, it is assumed that all products manufactured by ULB will be sold
within 36 hours after production. Consequently projected sales are based
on projected production figures. Income from sales is projected to follow
the current products-mix pattern, i.e. 65% from sales of pasteurized milk,
15% from unsweetened cultured milk, 15% from sweetened cultured milk and
the remaining 5% from yogurt. Receipts from sales of other products
such as butter, ghee, fresh cream, etc. which represented a very small
percentage of ULB's total production in the past have not been taken into
account. For the forecast period of projections (except 1978), current
selling prices, after the approved increase in December 1978, have been
assumed. These are MF 160, 100, 224, 640 and 520 per liter respectively
for pasteurized milk, unsweetened cultured milk, sweetened cultured milk,
flavored yogurt and natural yogurt. For 1978, income from sales is
maintained at 1977 level.
3. Cost of raw materials
The equipment projected to be purchased under the new investment
program will allow ULB to produce pasteurized milk both from powder and milk
and from locally available raw milk. However, since locally available
milk is in short supply, it is assumed that the major share of the production
(92%) during the forecast period will continue to be based on imported
milk powder. Imported inputs, calculated on normal consumption require-
ments including 4% for production loss, have been valued at international
prices and, to reflect the substantial price differences between these and
locally available raw milk, the cost of raw milk has been valued at a
premium of 100 francs per liter over the normal cost of imported inputs.



_  48 -                   ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
4. Personnel costs
The new plant is projected to operate on 1 shift, 5 working days/
week basis through mid-1983 and on two shifts thereafter. Required total
personnel is projected tD be 113 from 1981 through mid 1983 and 156 there-
after as against 77 currently. Personnel costs from 1981 through 1985
are calculated on this basis at competitive salary levels. Costs for 1979
and 1980 are however projected to increase at the rate of 50%, so as to
reflect additional recruitment during implementation stage.
5. Utilities, maintainance, reparation
Malntainance and reparation costs,which are very high currently
due to the poor state of machinery, are projected to continue increasing
through 1980. However, from 1981 onwards they are projected to decrease
substantially and remain at the level of 2.5% per annum for buildings
and 5% for equipment.Costs for utilities, calculated on the basis of
technical requirements of the equipment, are projected to increase
proportionately with the production.
6. Other overhead
To reflect increased production and additional activities,
overhead is also projected to increase about three fold from their levels
in 1977.
7. Depreciation
Existing assets, valued at tLeir net book cost, are projected to
be depreciated over 7 years. New machinery is depreciated over ten years.
Vehicles are depreciated over 3 years. New buildings are depreciated over
20 years.
8. Financial expenses
Financial expenses, primarily representing interest on a total IDA
borrowing of FM 943 million, to be repaid over a period of 12 years including
4 years of grace, are calculated at the interest rate of 12% per annum on the
average oustanding amount. As the conditions of the proposed local term loan
for approximately FM 95 million have not been specified as yet, these
expenses have not been included in the calculations but may be deduced from
the available data.
9. Bad debts
An amount of FM 18 million in the current receivables of ULB is
judged by the consultants to be irrecoverable. This amount has therefore
been deducted from ULB's :[979 profits. For the future, it is assumed that
approximately 1% of ULB's sales will be written off.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
- 49 -
10. Income tax
ULB has not been paying,to date, any income tax on its profits and
it is assumed that it will not do so during the forecast period as under the
existing laws it should obtain investment code benefits for a period of
6 years for its new investment program.
11. Fixed assets
Besides an increase resulting from implementation of the investment
program, fixed assets are assumed to increase by FM 42 million in 1984 and
FM 10 million in 1985,representing replacement costs of some vehicles.
12. Current assets
Current assets are estimated to represent 6 months stock of imported
inputs, 3 months stock of spare parts, 1.5 days of production of finished goods,
1.5 days of production for work in progress and 1 month production for
receivables.
13. Short-term liabilities
It is assumed that Government's equity contribution in 1980 and
cash generated through operations will allow ULB to repay MF 70 million and
MF 100 million of its short-term liabilities respectively in 1979 and 1980.
These are then assumed to remain at the level of MF 18 million thereafter.
14. Dividends
Although high profits generated by ULB would allow for higher rates
of dividends, it is assumed that these will be maintained at about 10% of
originally invested equity.
15. Term Borrowing
Only the IDA financed loan is included, for reasons given in item
8 above. Debt service on the proposed additional local term loan should
not prove a problem, given ULB's good debt service coverage position.



50                      ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
MALI
ULB:  Actual and Projected Balance Sheets
(MF million)
Actual                                  Projected
1975   1976   1977- 1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   19851
Assets
Fixed assets
Gross                203    267    343    343    582  1,067  1,213  1,286  1,286  1,328  1,338
Depreciation          90    116    139    174    209    244    340    447    560    677    796
Net                  113    151    204    169    373    823    873    809    726    651    542
Current Assets        241    267    292    292    306    337    306    376    444    531    640
Cash                   91      78     72    126    138    169    294    405    590    709  1,013
TOTAL         445    496    568    587    817  1,329  1,473  1,590  1,760  1,891  2,19.5
Liabilities
Equity               308    339    366    380    399    585    587    585    659    799  1,048
Term borrowings       20      20      -       -    239    724    870    913    943    825    707
Short-term liab.      85    115    188    188    118        18     18      18      18     18      18
Retained profit       32      22     14      19     61       2      C2)    74    140    249    422
TOTAL         445    496    568    587    817  1,329  1,473  1,590  1,760  1,891  2,195
Total equity as Z
of toal assets       76      73     67      68     56      44     40      41      45     55     67.
Debt/equity ratio  0.3:1   .4:1  0.5:1   .5:1   .8:1  1.3:1  1.5:1  1.4:1  1.2:1   .8:1   .5:1
Debt service       |                               5.8    1.6    2.5    3.1    3.7    2.3    2.7
coverage



-  51  _                           ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
ULB: Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statenft4its
(FM million)
1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Cash Flow 1
Sources
Net Profits                              19    61       2    48   124   190   299   472
Depreciation                             35    35    35    96   107   113   117   119
Government Capital Contribution           -      -   125      -      -     -      -     -
IDA Loan                                  _   239   485   146    43    30         _     _
54   335   647J  290   274   333   416   591
Uses
Investments                               -   239   485   146    43    30         -     -
Renewals                                  -      -     -      -      -     -    42    10
Additional Working Capital                -    14    31   (31)   70    68    87   109
IDA Loan Repayment                        -      -     -      -      -     -   118   118
Repayment Short Term Liabilities          -    70   100       -      -     -      -     -
Dividends                                 -      -     -    50    50    50    50    50
54   323   616   165   163   148   297   287
Surplus Cash                             54    12    31   125   111   185   119   304
Cash Position                           126   138   169   294   405   590   709 1,013
11  Mawumina a term loan (121 interest. 10-year maturity with 3-years' grace)
i ts riceived, cash would be reduced by maximum of MF 15 million from 1980 by
interest and an additional MF 18 million loan repayment from 1983 - 1989.
Net impact of this financing on both the overall cash and income position
would be minimal.



ULB:  Actual and Projected Income Statements
(FM million)
Actual,                                 Projected
975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Income from Sales                           340    406    537    537    669    736    954  1,183  1,411  1,701  2,075
Expenses
Contingency for raw milk purchase
Raw materials                           212    255    331    331    363    399    454    562    671    809    986
Personnel expenses                       26      40      45     45      68    101    133    133    153    173    173
Utilities, Reparations & maintainance   48         45      89      89    103    118       53     57      61      65      68
Other overhead                              6      10      12     12      14      16      23     27      31      36      39
292    350    477    477    548    634    702    831    981  1,160  1,370
Gross margin                                 48      56      60      60    121    102    252    352    430    541    705
Depreciation                               24      27      38      35     35      35      96    107    113    117    119
Financial expenses                          2       4       6      6      20      58     98    108    113    108         94
26     31      44      41     42      93    194    216    226    225    213
Gross Profit                                 22      25      14      19     79       9      58    136    204    316    432
Bad debts (write off)                       -       -       -      -      18       7      10     12      14      17      20
Net Profit                                   22      25      14      19     51      2       48    124    190    299    472
as percentage of sales                    6.5    6.2    2.6    3.5    9.1    0.3    5.0   10.5   13.5   17.6   22.7
as percentage of average assets                   5.3    2.6    3.3    8.7    0.2    3.4    8.1   11.3   16.4   23',1
as percentage of average equity                   7.1    3.8    4.9   14.2    0.4    8.2   19.9   26.1   32.4   37.5
01%



ANNEX 6
53                                Page 1 of 7
UNION LAITIERE DE BAMAKO: INVESTMENT PROGRAM
The proposed investment program is based on the following
considerations:
1.        Besides ULB, there is not a single milk processing facility in
Mali. Locally produced raw milk is in short supply and shortages are
particularly acute during the dry season, especially in urban centers like
Bamako. Continuation of ULB and expansion of its production capacity
therefore is not only vital to supplement the limited availability of
locally produced raw milk but also to increase the amount of good quality
processed milk available to urban dwellers.
2.        In view of the strong demand for its products, ULB's plant has
been operating intensively and far above its nominal capacity. ULB's
equipment has therefore, been subject to a high degree of wear and tear
and although its maintainance practices under the circumstances has not been too bad,
the over-all condition of the equipment is very poor. Many machines need
to be reconditioned or replaced and while some of these can be kept
operating during the period necessary for implementation of the new invest-
ment program, some others need to be replaced in the shortest possible
delay.
3.        In order to avoid ruptures in production during the implementation
stage of the investment program and to maintain production of ULB at current
levels, investments totaling US$200,000 equivalent for immediate replacement
or strengthening of some critical machinery are projected to be carried out
in priority. /1
4.        For reasons of market absorption capacity and minimum economic
plant size, ULB's rehabilitation and expansion program is limited to
increasing ULB's normal production capacity to 50,000 liters per day, i.e.
13 million liters per annum as against 10,000 lines currently. The program
is expected to be implemented by 1981 but production will be gradual and full
capacity output is expected to be reached at the latest by 1985.
1/  Freezer for iced water                          US$ 60.320
Yogurt dispenser                                    30.812
Reconditioning of existing equipment                45.300
5 distribution depots                               62.250
198.682



54                                ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 7
5.        It would be possible to install the new machinery in ULB's
existing factory building. This would however, not only disrupt ULB's
current production but would also make further capacity increases impossible.
For reasons indicated in paragraph 1 above, it is highly likely that demand
for ULB's products will surpass 50,000 liters per day by 1985, requiring
a doubling of the projected capacity. The investment program therefore
proposes construction of aL new factory building and extension of the
existing office building. (The existing factory building will then be
used for housing auxiliary services equipment.)
6.        So as to allow FLrB to carry out preventive maintainance in the
future and also to strengthen its laboratory analysis capacity, the invest-
ment program proposes purchase of additional equipment for these two services.
Distribution of a larger production in a more efficient way would necessitate
an improved delivery system. Creation of 5 distribution depots and acquisition
of 12 vehicles is therefore also proposed.
7.        The cost of the Investment Program, including emergency equipment
(Para. 3 above) and transportation insurance and installation, based upon
these cnnsiderations, is estimated as follows:
FM Million
Cost of Buildings                        236
Architects Fees                           17
Milk processing equipment                239
Auxiliary equipment                      149
Workshop equipment                        12
Laboratory equipment                       6
Distribution Depots                       28
Office Furniture and Fixtures              6
Reconditioning of existing; equip.        20
Vehicles                                  63
776
Price and foreign exchange
contingencies (10%p.a.from 1980) 81
857-
Physical Contingencies (101%)             86
TOTAL COSI              943
8.        Summarized schedules of existing and additional equipment
to be purchased as well as construction to be undertaken under the proposed
project are attached.



UNION LAITIERE DE BAMAKO
Summarized List of Existing Equipment
Description                 Brand             Capacity        Year of              State               Remaining Oper-
Purchase                                  ational Life
Reception Scale          Bizerba-Werke        110 kg               1967          satisfactory, except         2 years
scale (broken)
Reception Basin          Alfa-Laval           500 1                1967          satisfactory                 10 years
Triblender               Pierre Guerin        2,600 kg/h           1977          passable, needs repaired    5 years
Pump                     Astra                10,000 1/h           1967          satisfactory                 3-5 years
Homogenizer              Ranne                700-5,000 1/h        1977          excellent                    7 years
ghee tank                Paasch-Silkeborg    200 1                 1967          satisfactory, intake         10 years
needs replaced
Powder scale                                  150 kg               1975          satisfactory                 5 years
2 tanks for reconsti-    Alfa-Laval           2,000 1 each         1967          mixers need replaced         5-10 years
tution
~JI
Homogenizor               Gaulin              2,000 1/h            1972          being reviewed               3 years
Pasteurizor              Alfa-Laval           2,000 1/h            1967          water supply and regula-    5 years
tory mechanisms need
replaced
Pump                     Alfa-Laval           2,000 1/g            1967          satisfactory                 3-5 years
Milk filter               Paasch-Silkeborg    2,000 1/h            1967          satisfactory                 3-5 years
Creamer                  Alfa-Laval           2,000 1/h            1967          being reviewed               3-5 years
Beater                    Frau                150 1                1967          satisfactory                 5-10 years
2 isolation tanks        Mirelj Vaahto        6,000 1 each         1967          satisfactory                 10 years
1 isolation tank         Alfa-Laval           6,000 1              1977          satisfactory                 20 years      old
Yoghurt packing           Caled Duckwith       1,000 contain-      1977          deteriorated                 2 years        m
machine                                         ers/h                                                                       Li
0
-J



Summarized List of Existing Equipment (continued)
Description                 Brand                 Capacity      Year of               State               Remaining Oper-
j                                        Purchase                                    ational Life
Yoghurt dispenser          ALM                  1,000 contain-        1972          passable                       4 years
(manuel)                                        ers/h
Yoghurt sterilizer         ALM                  1,320 contain-        1968          deteriorated                   2 years
ers/h
Yoghurt sterilizer         ALM                  2,640 contain-        1977          satisfactory                   5 years
ers/h
2 Yoghurt capsules        ALM                   250 containers/   1975-78           satisfactory                   5 years
(manuel)                                        h each
Pump                       Alfa-Laval           5,000 1/h             1967          passable                     5-7 years
Butter packing            ALM                   40 kg/h               1967          satisfactory                   5 years
machine(manuel)                                                                                                                    O
2 Cooling tanks           Alfa-Laval            650 1 each            1974          satisfactory                   5 years
Double partition tank    ---(Chinese)           200 1                 1967          deteriorated                   0 years
Double partition tank    Paasch-Silkeborg    160 1                    1967          passable                       7 years
Double partition tank    ALM                    180 1                 1967          passable                       7 years
Stainless basin           Alfa-Laval            400 1                 1967          passable                      10 years
Cultured milk dis-         Cerac                24011/h               1974          passable                       3 years
penser
Cultured milk dis-         Cerac                300 1/h               1977          satisfactory                   5 years
penser
5 pasteurized milk         1 Prepac 13-2        2,500 1/h             1975          passable, delayed              5 years
packers                                                                           maintainance
2 Prepac 15-1        1,000 1/h             1978          safisfactory, needs            6 years
repaired
0



Summarized List of Existing Equipment (continued)
Description               Brand             Capacity      Year of                State               Remaining Oper-
Purchase                                    ational Life
2 boilers                Babcok               400 kg/h             1967          passable, one boiler         8 years
being reviewed
ion.exchanger            Babcok               200 1/h              1967          satisfactory, out of         5 years
service
2 water pumps            Essa-Mica            30 m /h each         1970          satisfactory                 8 years
Hydrophore tank           Essa-Mica            1,500 1             1970          satisfactory                  5 years
Oil tank                  ---                  10,000 1            1967          satisfactory                10 years
Air compressor           Mil                  50 m3/h              1969          deteriorated                 0 years
Air compressor           Mil                   50 m3/h             1973          passable                      4 years
Air compressor           Nunterre             9 m 3/h              1976          satisfactory                  5 years
Compressor for cold      Comef                12,000 kcal/h        1976          satisfactory                 5 years          I
chamber
Compressor for cold      Comef                8,000 kcal/h         1975          passable                     5 years          _
chamber
Freezer for iced          Stal-Astra          36,000 kcal/h        1967          passable, must be re-      2-4 years
water(fully equipped)                                                          vised, water cooler
deteriorated
Transformer               ---                 100 kW               1967          passable                     5 years
Electricity generator    ---                   125 KVA             1967          satisfactory                  5 years
Electricity generator    ---                  50 KVA               1967          out of service, must be      2 years
revised
2 collection centers,    Alfa-Laval           400 1/h              1967          passable, centrifugers    3-5 years
fully equipped)                                                               bdeterioraed, no storag
tanks



Summarized List of Existing Equipment (Continued)
Description               Brand                 Capacity      Year of              State                Remaining Opera-
Purchase                                   tional Life
Van                       Renault               3,500 kg             1970          deteriorated                   0 years
Van                       Renault               2,000 kg             1976          passable                       3 years
Van                       Renault               2,000 kg             1977          satisfactory                   4 years
Van                       Renault               2,000 kg             1978          satisfactory                   5 years
Van                       Peugeot               1,750 kg              1974         passable                       2 years
Van                       Peugeot               1,550 kg              1976         satisfactory                   3 years
Van                       Peugeot               1,550                1975          passable                       2 years
Car                       Renault 4             -                    1975          satisfactory                   2 years
Car                       Peugeot 504           _                    1977          satisfactory                   4 years
co
0 0



59  _                            ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 7
UNION LAITIERE DE BAMAKO
Summary of Construction Works and New Equipment for Operations 1981-1985
(Costs in FM million)
Construction Works
Site leveling, fencing, etc2.                                   42.6
New factory building (880 m )                                  158.8
Transformation of existing factory building                     23.6
Extension and transformation of other building                  11.0
236.0
New Equipment
Equipment for cleaning milk cans                                 2.1
Equipment for milk-tander (filter and storage tank)              6.8
Equipment for reconstitution of milk which includes:            25.9
1 butter oil tank (750 liters)
1 butter oil pump (500 liters/hour)
1 triblender for powder
2 10,000 liters/hour pumps
2 5,000 liter tanks
milk filter (10,000 liters/hour)
cleaning tank (150 liters)
powder milk scale
Equipment for pre-treatment of milk which includes:             18.6
launching basin
pump (5,000 liters/hour)
complete heat exchanger (5,000 liters/hour)
control panel
Equipment for storage of pasteurized milk which includes:   12.8
2 storage tanks (10,000 liters)
1 pump (5,000 litets/hour)
Equipment for packaging of pasteurized milk which includes: 44.7
1 launching tank
3 packaging machines (2,500 bags/hour capacity)
2 packaging machines (1,000 bags/hour capacity)
1 cleaning machine for cases (750 cases/hour)
Equipment for packing of cultured milk (plate cooler)           12.1
Equipment for packaging of yoghurt which includes:              33.1
2 double partition tanks (1,000 liter capacity)
2 packing machines (1,500 jars/hour capacity)
3 fermenting machines
1 cleaning machine
1 100 kg scale
Equipment for cleaning of the factory (hoses and pump)           8.6
TOTAL f.o.b. cost 164.7
Transport and insurance(20%), spare parts(5%) and
installation costs (20%).                                     74.1
TOTAL INSTALLED COST        238.8



-  60  -                          ANNEX 7
MALI                             Page 1 of 2
ULB: Internal Rate of Return
Year                  Financial Costs        Financial Benefits           Net Benefits
(FM million)                                       (FM million)
1979 (0)                    638                      116                     (522)
1980 (1)                    485                       95                     (390)
1981 (2)                    146                      242                       96
1982 (3)                     43                      340                      297
1983 (4)                     30                      416                      386
1984 (5)                     42                      524                      482
1985 (6)                     10                      685                  -  675
1986 (7)                     10                      418                      408
1987 (8)                     52                      411                      350
1988 (9)                     16                      404                      388
1989 (10)                    10                      397                      387
1990 (11)                    52                      366                      314
1991 (12)                    16                      362                      346
1992 (13)                    10                      362                      352
1993 (14)                    52                      362                      310
1994 (15)                    16                      362                      346
Residual Value fixed assets                                                   224
1.      Financial IRR calculations are based on the following assumptions:
- original investment is taken at the level of ULB's net worth,
i.e., FM 399 million;
- total benefits are assumed to result from the new investment
(plus net worth) as otherwise the company would not be operational
any more;
- ULB would start paying income taxes on its net profits at the rate
of 50% from 1986;
- production would be maintained at 1985 level for subsequent years;
- machinery would operate for 15 years and would not require any
additional investments;
- ULB would replace vehicles every three years at original cost;
- residual value of fixed assets eqtuals its book value at end 1994.
2.      Based on these assumptions, ULB will show a financial IRR of 33.5%.
3.      Economic IRR is assumed to be at least equal to financial IRR since:



-  61  -                            ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
- inputs are valued at world market prices;
- in the absence of an international price for goods produced,
the value of sales cannot be shadow priced. However, actual
sales appear to be reasonable,;
- given the high unemployment rate in Mali, the cost of labor can
easily be shadow priced to less than half of its financial cost
to ULB;
- elimination of income tax payments would further reduce economic
costs as would the transportation costs of raw materials from the
border to Bamako;
- all the above adjustments, were they carried out, would certainly
result in an EIRR superior to the FIRR.



Annex 8
- 62 -
Terms of Reference
Project Coordination
Industrial Development Project
QuaLifications:
Education:       Business, economics or administration
Experience:      Familiar with industrial development
problems and development projects
Staffing:        Member of Cabinet of Planning Ministry with
personnel and equipment support.
Task:            Coordinate project execution and supervise that
the agencies concerned give regular reports. The
coordinator may also with the agreement of IDA
undertake or subcontract various studies that
would improve project performance, support local
institutions and prepare complementary assistance. The
coordinator will coordinate and follow the submission
of d:Lsbursement requests under the project and gather
the reports and information requested periodically by
IDA
Financing:       US$65,000 will be allocated for this purpose, and
released with normal documentation and with the
agreement (signature) of the Minister of Plan. IDA
can finance equipment,    studies and a vehicle needed
to ftulfill the responsibilities of the coordinator.
Government will meet personnel costs and other related
expenses.



-63                              ANNEX_ 9
Page 1 of 5
MALI
Terms of Reference
Technical Assistance for the Establishment of ArtisanlExtedgion Service
1.       The World Bank and the Malian Government are pres-ntly preparing
a project to encourage industrial sector development in Mali.  The project
would provide a US$3.5 million line of credit to private productive enter-
prises, substantial technical assistance to small, medium and artisanal-
enterprises and rehabilitation financing for one state enterprise. The
main element of the proposed technical assistance program is the establish-
ment over a 2.5-year period of a technical extension service to advise and
assist Mali's artisans and small entrepreneur*  *IDA fnancn  would be
provided for technical assistance to help setting up the service as well as
for initial operating costs and appropriate equipment and suppliesa. A deacriptian
of artisan sector is attacheW  to tA   paprr.
Function and Organization of the Proposed Extension Service
2.      The extension service would eventually be composed of Malian extension
agents, themselves master artisans with specific training to provide the necessary
services. Their responsibilities would be equally to offer extension services
themselves and to train an expanding group of future extension agents to serve
wider regions of Mali. The agents might work only part-time as extension agents,
maintaining their own artisan work at the same time. Initially, the agents
might be paid salaries or stipends while in training but eventually fees for their
services should eventually become the main compensation for their extension work,
to avoid the development of a "bureaucrat" mentality. At the minimum, they should
always receive payment on a "service provided" basis while the service as a whole
might be supported by membership fees from participating artisan associations.
The extension service would have the following responsibilities:
- to help Malian artisans to organize themselves into
associations, within metier and community, for credit,
training and supply;
- to provide practical skill training to these artisan
associations and help them to improve their work organiza-
tion, product quality, and range of services and to further
develop their markets. The extension agents would help the
artisan associations identify, obtain or develop the equip-
ment necessary for their improved activities, requesting
credits from local institutions for this equipment where
needed;
- help develop long-term apprenticeship programs within these
associations to pass on the newly-learned or improved skills.
Therefore, a major focus of the proposed service is the
training of Malian mattres d'apprentissage to supervise
village based apprenticeship program.



AMEX 9
Page 2 of 3
4.      Although the extension service will be placed under the administra-
tion of the Centre d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle (CEPI), the GovernunWl'i
industrial promotion agency, the service should be largely self-managed,
focussing primarily on services to its clients, the artisans, and not on
administrative or institutional structure. CEPI already has wide
responsibilities.  Its activities, based in Bamako, are primarily focussed
on modern sector enterprises. These enterprises, especially the smaller
ones, have their own substantial needs for assistance, to which CEPI is
the only agency suitable to respond. It is not reasonable therefore to
expect CEPI to devote a significant portion of its time or energies to
artisan services - this is also preferable as there is an enormous and
inevitable gap in outlook and values between CEPI, a relatively official
institution, and most of Mali's artisans. The extension service is there-
fore being established to help the artisans organize themselves and claim
whatever services (or credit') they require from Mali's "modern" institutions,
rather than attempt to bring thesa institutions into the artisans' world.
CEPI's role is therefore limited to that of an adainistrative umbrella.
5.      In its administration of the mervina, CEPT will be advised by the
Temporary Committee for the Promotion of Artisans, a group created in 1978
by CEPI to emphasize the "transitional" nature of its involvement with artisans
and the multiple groups interested in this problem. As this Committee is
composed of representatives cif each of the official agencies is some way
involved with artisans (e.g. taxes, training, arts, labor policy) and has
shown serious concern with artisan issues, it could be quite helpful to the
service. Moreover, the committee gives, as is intended, legitimacy to the
semi-autonomous status of the service.
Proposed Technical Assistance
6.      The proposed assistance is intended to help establish the service by
creating the initial necessary cadre of extension agents, an appropriate
flexible super-structure for their work and defining and testing the services
to be provided. In these efforts, it is expected that the technical advisors
will act themselves as the initial extension agents, working out the operating
details for the service by performing the services themselves, with the initial
group of potential Malian extension agents working alongside, as counterparts,
interpreters, translating the foreigners' experience to the Malian context.
During this project period and based on this experience, the foreign advisors
and their counterparts, in coordination with artisan groups and the Committee,
would be expected to develop proposals for the continuation and extension of
this service based on Malian artisan personnel. Such recommendations would
include selection, training, iinancing, work programs and organization and
location of the service.
7.      Program of Work.  The proposed technical assistance program would be
undertaken in two phases: a two-month Phase I,preparation, and 2.5-year Phase rl,
demonstration, under the proposed IDA-assisted project. Given the physical size of.
the country and the size of the artisan population, the first efforts to eatahlisbathis



ANNEX 9
It, 65                        'Page 3 of 5
extension service should be undertaken on a clearly limited scale. Initial
assistance should focus on three metiers: blacksmiths, woodworking and a
third chosen from among mechanics and other metal workers or manufacturers.
This pilot project should also focus on only one or two specific regions in
which the selected metiers are most important. Work has already begun with
blacksmiths in Koutiala. It is preferable that this work be conducted
primarily outside of Bamako, in the interior towns where most artisans remain
and where the traditional system is most stable.
8.  -    The objective of Phase I, therefore, is to select the appropriate
initial scope for the service and to develop a detailed plan for implementing
the program within these constraints under Phase II. This plan should be
available before advance financing for the Phase I work, has been provided
to the Malian Government by IDA. It is expected that the same organization
would be responsible for executing assistance under both phases of the
program.
9,       Phase I.  Based on field work Ani-using available research   dsrvicpe data
on Mali's artisan sector, the preparatory study would yield a report covering the
following points:
- recommendations as to specific metiers and localities in
which to initiate service;
- a fairly detailed profile of the needs of the artisans in
these target groups;
- reconmended content/curriculum and organization for the
training/apprenticeship programs;
- specific equipment and supply requirements for the service ovrr
the 2.5-year project period; estimated cost, both initlal cost
and recurring costs for suppliers; spare parts, etc. by local
and foreign exchange component;
- specific profiles for the advisors to be used;
- profiles of Malian counterparts to be trained to take over the
Service;
- recommendations for the organization, administration and
structure of the Service, both in its field work and its
relationship to CEPI's office and support staff requirements;
logistical arrangements; operating budget over project period;
- recommendations for any special service arrangements, such as
bulk purchase, supply depots, market connections, etc.
- recommendations for any non-technical training requirement (i.e.,
literacy, business skills);
- a description of preparatory work required to ensure the start-up
of the Extension Ser,vice at the latest by ....... Cost for this
work should be estimated.



ANNEX 9
66 u                       Page 4 of 5
10.      11hese findings slhou'ld be based on a field investigation of selected
artisan groups, existing service programs such as CMDT and visits with
relevant local institutions, including the Centre d'Etudes et de Promotion
Industrielle (CEPI), the Local industrial promotion agency, and the Institut
de Productivite et de Gesticn Provisionnelle (IPGP), the management training
institute, as well as the various technical training agencies. This field
work will be coordinated by CEPI.
11.      During the last week of work in Mali, the team of consultants in
charge of this Program will discuss in Mali the conclusions of its work with
the qualified representatives of the Malian Government and a representative
of the World Bank. A final report should be submitted at the latest by ...
12.      Phase II.  Efforts to actually establish the proposed service would
begin on or about January 1, 1980, when the IDA credit for the proposed
project should become effective. The contractor would provide the expatriate
staff, consistent with Phase I recommendations, over the 2.5-year project
period. IDA has allocated financing under the proposed project for about
seven man-years of external technical assistance for this purpose plus related
equipment and supplies. Some modifications in these allocations may be
possible in light of the findings from the Phase I study.  Semi-annual
operational reports to IDA and quarterly reports to the Malian Government would
be required during the project period, with a final evaluation report submitted
during the final semester of the program, according to terms of reference
mutually agreed.  The final report should include recommndUioin  for
maintenance of the service on a local, artisan community base.  Artisan
counterpart training, as discussed in paragraph 2, would be a key performance
condition for the external assistance.
Qualifications
13.      To ensure continuity and quality of services, we would prefer that
the responsibility for execution of the proposed technical assistance rest
with an organization rather than individuals. The organization should have
extensive experience in technical manual skill training and organization in
the development of artisan apprenticeship programs.  The individual advisors
provided should be artisans themselves, preferably maitres d'apprentissage
in the relevant metiers.  All should be French-speaking.  One such advisor
should be responsible for the management of the Service in Mali.  As the
artisan associations and apprenticeship programs are modelled on traditional
craft guilds, such an organization would appear to be the ideal executor
of these services.



ANWNEX 9
- 67  _                              Page 5 of 5
14. Proposals. Proposals are now being sought from qualified organizations to
undertake Phase I of the program. These proposals should also indicate
the organization's capability to execute the assistance program outlined
for Phase II. Proposals should include:
- a qualifications statement for the organization;
- a statement of its understanding of what is being attempted;
- a description of the tasks which seem to be required to
develop a program for this service and of the information
which must be developed;
- a timetable and budget for performing the indicated tasks
and developing necessary information;
- c.v.'s of persons to participate in the study.
Conditions
15,      IDA financing, through the Malian Government, would cover both the
local and foreign costs of salaries, social and other benefits, housing,
travel and resettlement for the advisors. Under Phase I, the costs of
research, report preparation and field work will be covered, including two
round trips to Mali, interior travel in Mali and per diem while in the field.
Under Plhase II, vehicles will alsc be provided to the advisors for local
travel. Som2e supervisory work by the parent organization may also be financed.



68                           AN1EX 9
Attachment I
Page 1 of 2
MALI
The Artisan Sector
1.       Ninety percent of Mali's non-farm labor force, or more than 200,000
persons, earn their livelihoods from artisanal labor. In addition, a major
part of the agricultural labor force works part-time in artisanal activities.
Artisans, for our purposes, are defined as those who work, productively
(non-service), with their hands and do so in relatively small or informal,
often family-based, groups.
2.       Although the largest single group of artisans work with textiles,
the fastest-growing group, and that with the greatest potential for economic
expansion, are the more technically-oriented subsectors - woodworking, metal-
working (blacksmiths, machinists, mechanics), and light building trades.
Although reflecting the communal nature of Malian traditional society, the
artisans tend to do their work in groups, these groups are primarily social,
lacking formalized professional or technical relationships. However, it has
been found to be relatively easy to create more formalized associations, for
training, credit and such, althoughi there is a firm resistance to selling in
groups, i.e., to share marlkets, clients, earnings. There are no organized
training or skill-upgrading programs; apprentices are attached to master
artisans in an informal manner and learn the traditional skills through
observation and some on-the-job experience. Many of the trades are part of
traditional castes in the specific ethnic groups and potential apprentices
are identified by inheritance or family tie. Depending on the trade, equip-
ment ranges from unchanged traditional (blacksmith) to improvised modern
(auto mechanics). Application of skills to new problems (i.e., repair of
modern equipment) is large].y improvised and often ingenously effective.
3.       The apprentices complain of difficulties in obtaining raw materials,
especially at reasonable prices and quantity, of a lack of working capital
(few have the skills to deal with the banks; many are illiterate and
suspicious of formal education). Most express strong interest in training
in the use of new techniques and equipment as their clients are asking them to
repair or fabricate new types of equipment, with which they are unfamiliar.
They see such training as aL means of expanding their market. At the same
time, they are suspicious of academics and likely to respond only to on-the-
job training and demonstration by other technicians whose competence they
respect.
4.       At present, almost no technical assistance is available to these
artisans in Mali nor has credit been available - partly because the banks,
as is typical in the region, do not know how to deal with artisans, given
their individually small needs and lack of understanding of modern financial
procedures, and partly because of tight credit controls which have restricted
most non-public sector financing. Many bankers are interested in helping
the artisans, if appropriate procedures can be developed - in fact, in mariy
areas, there are few other potential clients. To facilitate access to credit



-  69 i.                     ANNEX  i
Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
for these groups, a part of the IDA line of credit will be reserved for
loans to small enterprises and simplified credit application and processi'ng
procedures will be developed. The extension service is intended to fill
part of the gap in technical assistance and training services. It does not
appear cost-effective to provide such credit or assistance on a one-to-one
basis to the artisans. Rather, taking advantage of the traditional communal
social structure, groups would be established for such assistance. These
groups would not be extended into sales or marketing, but would be strictly-
technical or vocational associations such as the traditional craft guild.
5.       One of the few existing assistance programs for artisans in Mali
has been organized by the Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpement de
Textiles, Mali's state cotton company. This program offers an interesting
model for a larger assistance program.
6.       Under this program, a credit and training cooperative of blacksmiths
was organized by mastersmiths from Europe, who designed slightly upgraded
equipment and workshops for the artisans, trained them in the production
of modern small agricultural implements and the repair of more sophisticated
equipment, as well as better work organization, set up an apprenticeship
program for these artisans to train other artisans and maintain quality
control on the output. Credits of about $600 per workshop were provided
to finance new equipment. CMDT also helps them to obtain in bulk scrap
metal supplies and to market their wares to CMDT-related farmers.  The
program has led to substantially improved incomes for the artisans as well
improved the services provided to their clients. The viability of this
program will depend on the artisans' ability to maintain, transmit and,
hopefully, to build on these newly-improved skills in the long-term and
without constant external supervision.



-  70  -                           ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
Selected Documents and Data
Available in Project File
The Industrial Sector
-  Economic Memorandum on Mali.  Annex II:
Investment: Issues and priorities in Manufacturing.
Report No.1134-MC1. July 30, 1976. (Data only up
to 1972/4).
- The System of Incentives and Comparative Advantage
in Malian Agriculture and Industry, June 2, 1975
(World Bank Research Paper).
Mali:  Investment Codes, 1974, 1976.
Artisan Sector
- Report of Textile Consultant on Weaving Sector
in Mali, December 1978.
- Consultants Report on Artisan Sector in Mali, 1978.
- I.P.G.P. Report for BDM: Artisans in Mali, 1976.
" The Possibilities  de Restructuration de l'Artisanat
en Republique du Mali." Agence de Cooperation Culturelle
et Technique. Paris, November 1972.
Georges Nihan (ILO), Programme de recherche sur l'acquisition
des qualifications et l'auto-emploi dans le secteur non
structure des zones urbaines d'Afrique francophone, Rapport
de Synthase de la Mission Cameroun, Haute Volta, Mali,
Mauritanie, Ruanda, Senegal, Togo 16 Janvier - 12 Mars 1977
et Propositions pour un Programme d'Opgration, Avril 1977.
The Banking System
Accord between Mali and France
Banque Centrale du Mali
- Quarterly Bulletin, 9/78
- Annual Report, 1977
- Rediscount Applications.
Banque de ])eveloppement du Mali
- Annual Report, 1974, 1975, 1976
Policy Statement
Statute
Banque Malienne de Credit et de Depo^ts
- Annual Report, 1976
Statutes



71                          ANNFA I(1
Page 2 of 3
Banque Internationale de l'Afrique Occidentale,
Financial Statements.
Kreditanstalf fur Wiederaufbau, BDM appraisal report
for DM 3 millions credit (letter of 12 July 1974),
two supervision reports (letters of 18 March, 1976 and
12 April, 1977), 1978 Appraisal, 3rd line of credit.
Public Enterprises
- PPF-Financed Studies:
Development Study on the Union Laitiere de Bamako,
Vol:I,II,III (French and English). Prepared for the
Ministry of State Corporations and Enterprises with
IDA support by SORCA-EMB and I.P.G.P., December 1978.
Rehabiltation Study of Enterprise Malienne du Bois
(EKAB).
- Ministry of Public Enterprises Reports:
Evaluation des Activities du Secteur Ecunomique
organisee d'apres les r6sultats des enquetes aupres
des entreprises, 1968-74. Ministry of Plan, Mali.
General Plan, State Enterprising 1975, 1976, 1977
Ministry of Public Enterprises, Mali.
Analysis of Financial Situation of Public Sector, as of
December 1976.
Summary of Economic Results of Public Enterprises, Fiscal
Year 1972, 75, 76.
Proposed Financial Strategy for State Sector, January 1976.
Summary of Rehabilitation Activities for State Enterprises,
1976-78.
- EMAB, Annual Report , FY 1976.
- ULB, Annual Report, FY 1976
- FAO Reports on Expansion Program. Various documents and
statistical reports on Sector and selected enterprises.



-  72 -                          - 
Page 3 of 3
- I.P.G.P.
Development Program for I.P.G.P., 1979-83
Background Documents.
- CEPI
Project Proposals for UNIDO Investors, Conference, 1978
Organization Chart
Statutes
Minutes of Several Board Meetings
Report of Commissioner of Accounts, 1978
UNDP Project Document.
- Other;
IMF Report, 1977. Consultative Mission.
IMF Report. Fiscal System in Mali.
Bureau Central de Recensement, Recensement G6n6ral de la Population du
Mali (ler au 16 Dgcembre 1976), RAsultats Provisoires.



ANNEX 11
- 73 -
MALI
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Quarter                   Amount                 Cumulative            Percent
(US$'000)                 (us$'ooo)
1981:  1st Qr.               810
2nd Qr.              520
3rd Qr.              460
4th Qr.              550
2,340                    2,340                29.3
1982:  1st Qr.               600
2nd Qr.              600
3rd Qr.              680
4th Qr.              750
2,630                    4,970                62.1
1983:  1st Qr.               770
2nd Qr.              800
3rd Qr.              360
4th Qr.              350
2,280                   7,250                 90.6
1984:  1st Qr.               250
2nd Qr.              250
3rd Qr.              150
4th Qr.              100
750                   8,000                100.0



