FILE COPY
Report No. 54:a-KO'
Appraisal of the
Secondary Cities Regional Project
in Korea
December 16, 1974
Transportation and Urban Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          Won (W)
1 Won               =  US$0.0025
US$1                =  W 400
US$1 million        =  W 400 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric Ton (m ton)              2,205 Pounds (lbs)
1 Meter (m)                   -  3.28 Feet (ft)         2
1 Pyong (py)                  -  3.307 Square Meters (m )
1 Pyong (py)                  3  35.586 Square Feet (sq ft)
1 Hectare (ha)                -  10,000 Square Meters (m2)
1 Liter Per Capita Per Day
(1 lpcd)                 =  0.26 US Gallons Per Capita Per Day
ABBREVIATIONS/ACRONYMS
EPB       -  Economic Planning Board
GRDU      -  Gwangju Regional Development Unit
GRT       -  Gross Registered Tons
KECC      -  Korea Engineering Consultants Corporation
KECO      - Korea Electric Company
KHB       - Korea Housing Bank
KHC       -  Korea Housing Corporation
LLW       -  Lowest Low Water
MCI       - Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOC       -  Ministry of Construction
MOHA      - Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT       - Ministry of Transportation
MTD       -  Metric Tons a day
OOF       -  Office of Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture
OSROK     -  Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
UPU       -  Urban Project Unit
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................... i - iv
I. INTRODUCTION .........   1
II. BACKGROUND ...........   2
A.   The Economy and Recent Trends .        ..................  2
B.   Regional Problems and Disparities       . . .             3
C.   Government Programs for Gwangju Region..                  4
D.   Urban and Rural Development    . .......5.............    5
E. The Role of the Bank. .                                     6
III. THE PROJECT ..........  6
A.   Project Description .......................               6
B.   Detailed Features ..        .      .............          7
IV.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, COST RECOVERY AND PRICING .    12
A.   Cost Estimates       .    . .. ..         . .    ...     12
B.   Financial Arrangements ..........................        114
C.   Cost Recovery and Pricing .       . .....................   15
D.   Procurement          .... ..............................  17
E.   Disbursements .........................  .     ..   .    18
F.   Accounts and Audit . .......... ..          ........ .    18
G.   Supervision      .     .......... ................ .     18
H.   Environmental Considerations ........         ..***    19
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................    ....... .    19
A., Project Execution ....  19
fBX   Interministerial Policy Committee ...............    21
C.   Provisional Advisory Committee           . . .           21
D.   Gwangju Regional Development Unit        .               21
> '> Urban Project Units ...................... ...             22
F.  Training               .............                      22
This report was prepared by Messrs. R.A. Sison (Chief of Mission),
K.M. Gyi, S. Sandstrom and A. Saravanapavan of the Bank; F. Bourgois
(FAO-IBRD/CP) and Mrs. M.O. Smith, Messrs. K. Hansen and P. Nichols (Con-
sultants). Messrs. E. NJomo (Young Professional) and W. Guckian (FAO-
IBRD/CP) also assisted in the preparation of the report.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .............. .....    23
A.  General           ............................ .......    23
B.  Economic Rates of Return ............... ........    23
C.  Employment and Income Distribution Effects ......   24
D.  Regional Development .................... .... O...   24
E.  Urban Development ..            .......................... ..   25
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......    ...............................   25
ANNEXES
1.  Gwangju Economic Development Prospects
9   Regional Planning:  National Land Development Plan 1972-81
Project Cost Estimate Tables
4.  The Housing Sector
5.  Housing Sites and Services -- Site Planning and Design Standards
,6> Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex
Technical Assistance
8.  Financial Arrangements
9.  Cost Recovery and Pricing
10.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11.  Supervision Requirements
f12~.  Project Execution
>1-3. Economic Rate of Return Analysis
CHARTS
8482R    Project Organization for Construction
8788R    Consolidated Implementation Schedule
MAPS
10970    Planning Regions in Korea
11082    Gwangju Housing Sites and Services - First Stage
11083    Mogpo Housing Sites and Services - First Stage
11084    Suncheon City Market
10962R1  Yeosu Project Components
11085    Yeosu Housing Sites and Services - First Stage
11086    Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex - First Stage



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The economic growth of Gwangju region has been stunted during the
last decade of extraordinary national growth by its remoteness from major
markets, its underdeveloped transport network, and its relative failure to
attract either public or private investment. Per capita income in the
heavily agricultural region is among the lowest in the country. The region's
rural areas are productive in relatively low value crops, and its urban
areas are, with the exception of the administrative capital Gwangju City
rather passive centers of the region's agricultural marketing and supply.
The region contributes less than 8% of the nation's manufacturing employment,
and generates 5% of the nation's manufacturing output. It contains 13% of
the nation's population.
ii.       Present Government plans call for a much greater level of public
investment in both urban and rural areas. Major investments have already
been made with the assistance of the Bank to expand and improve the transport
network and to increase agricultural productivity.  The                       s
the initiae of-a-"LtL- hase investment program in Gwangju_that
is under preparation by the UNDP (Phdoe i _RegIona1Thysi?irPT   ing Study)
knd scheduled for5  compierTon7 li September 1975.  The project provides an
important focus on the four secondary cities as employment and trade centers
of Gwangju ru f7AUiouhpoject iivest  it7-Tin  rban infrastructure and
in mandeting and dst           taci±iriF me              d have been limited
to fir     i velopments due to tn&jpostponement in Government development
expenditures following the oil crisis.  The project investments are designed
to begin to develop the capacity of the cities to accommodate their increasing
populations with basic urban amenities and with productive employment.
Government plans are to increase manufacturing and mining employment in the
region by three-fold between 1973 and 1981.
iii.      The project provides essentkaLinsal[utLtionaL-s'ppQrtfor regional
investment plans.  It strengthens the Government srtegionaLalnnix_. canA
bility and_eatahuiahe      , nstitutional structure for ongoing regional
p;.annl1ng _aftd-4nvesitment. ^^ 
iv.       The project's components are outlined below:
(a) Urban infrastructure including:
(i) housing sites and services in Gwangju City, Mogpo
and Yeosu;



- ii -
(ii)' a fishery harbor complex with an industrial processing
zone in Yeosu;
(iii) a city market in Suncheon; and
(iv)  access roads in Mogpo and Yeosu.
(b) Technical assistance:
Mi)  to assst- in the establishment and operation of the
Gwangju Regional Development Unit (GRDU) at the
provincial level of G6vriment -
(ii)  to strengthen reional planning at the national_level
of Governmiif
(ii-i) to provide advisory assistance for the management and
operation of me YFeosu rsery--Iarb6r complex;
riv) 'to prepare a pro r         ±ving-thei-provision of
:  technitan7sistance in water supply operation and
managem'ent and the identification of short-term
improvements in the water supply systems in the
four cities; and
6r)  to carry out feasibility studies and the preparation
--/ of selected projects to be identified in the UNDP
Phase II Stii7dTy'~ad in studies undertaken''byiMOC.
v.        The proposed loan of US$15.0 million would cover 60% of the total
cost (US$25.0 million) of the four-year project.  The balance of the project
costs would be provided by the Government (US$9.5 million) and Suncheon City
(US$0.50 million for the city market). The foreign exchange component
reflecting both direct and indirect costs represents 48% of total project
costs.
vi.       The Ministry of Construction as executing agency would be respon-
sible for all construction. As the facilities are completed they would be
turned over to the respective cities for ongoing operation and maintenance
except in the case of the fishery harbor complex which would be maintained
and operated by the Korean Government Office of Fisheries.
vii.      The cities of Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu would repay the Government
and the Korea Housing Bank the cost of land, site preparation and on-site
infrastructure for the housing sites and services components. The Government
would reimburse the cities for the costs of off-site infrastructure, engineering
services, green areas and community facilities. The city of Suncheon would
repay to the Government full construction cost of the market, which is
equivalent to 60% of the total cost (which includes equity capital provided



- iii -
by the city) of the market facilities. In the case of the Yeosu fishery
harbor complex, the port operations are expected to generate sufficient
revenues to cover expenditures for operation and maintenance and any surplus
would be turned over to the Government.
viii.     The Ministry of Construction would eAtakliabLt21_9fagJu Regional
Development Unit (GRDU) at te provincial level of g6`e-qfffitnt to help
i^iplement the' project and appoint a Project Manager as head of GRDU.  A
Provineial Advisory Committee would advise the ProjectlManager on provincial
development plans.  UTrban Project Units would be established in the mayor's
office of each of the four cities to administer the sale of serviced housing
siLes and to plan and identify future projects. The Government would assign
to the Vice Mlnisters Conference for Economic Affairs the responsibility of
providing policy guidance for regional planning and development and to provide
irnteragency coordination.
ix.       Contracts for civil works and for supply of equipment would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Civil works would be grouped to the extent possible
to encourage competitive bidding. Equipment, all of which is for the Yeosu
fishery harbor complex, would be procured by the Office of Supply of the
Republic of Korea (OSROK), the central procurement agency of the Government.
A preference of up to 15% or the applicable custom duties, whichever is
lower, would be applied to bidders offering locally manufactured goods.
x.        Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan would be made in accordance
with Bank guidelines and against: 100% of the CIF cost of imported equipment
plus installation, 60% of the cost of civil works contracts, and 60% of
consultants' services for studies, detailed engineering, design and super-
vision and technical assistance.
xi.       The overall rate of return on the quantifiable elements of the
projects (housing sites, roads, market and fishery harbor facilities) is 28%.
This calculation excludes important non-quantifiable project benefits. The
institt ional  elopment and Dlanning assistance strengthens the-capability
of the Government to undertake  regional development programs in GwangJu,and
othe<r-i mng regions.  The nroject is expected to stimulate the development
of 16ow--o-s-t    ''ousT programs tEioough the sites and servic'es''ap'proach and-by
facilfttr1¶tit±o'usbiig mortgages to low-'income~xfaiT Ees''. t' 'Gover'nme7t is
currently formulating a national housing policy, and the project experience
will serve to guide further development of low-cost housing programs.
xii.      The project initiates Korea's first regional investment program.
The Government plans to develop investment programs for other regions as
part of its objective set forth in the National Land Development Plan
(1973-81) and the Third Economic Plan (1972-76) of widening the distribution
of benefits from Korea's exceptional decade of growth, and balancing growth
among regions. The project provides planning assistance in regional development



-iv -
and an institutional framework for implementation of a public investment
program in the Gwangju region that will serve as a prototype for other
regional development programs.
xiii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million to the
Government of Korea which would be for a term of 25 years including a grace
period of 7 years.



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank assist-
ance in initiating and implementing a regional development program for Gwangju,l/
a heavily agricultural region that has not shared in the social and economic
benefits of Korea's striking industrial growth. The Government's strategy
as articulated in the National Land Development Plan (1972-81) and in the
Third Economic Plan (1972-76) seeks to correct regional imbalances by disper-
sion of industrial and urban activity and increase in agricultural productivity.
The primary objective of the project is to establish and build up the institu-
tional framework and capabilities required to implement the Government's
development program in Gwangju. To this end, the project provides for technical
assistance to the Gwangju Regional Development Unit (GRDU) to be set up and staffed
at the provincial level and to the regional planning unit at the national
level of Government. The planning and implementing framework will be a
prototype for other regional investment programs. The project also includes
modest investments in urban infrastructure (housing sites and services,
access roads to industrial sites, a fishery harbor complex and a city market)
designed to initiate the planned expansion of Gwangju's cities as manufacturing
and marketing centers for increased agricultural output and as a new source
of regional employment. Studies leading to further investments in urban
infrastructure and improvements in urban services are included.
1.02      The project which would be implemented over a four-year period,
is based on the recommendations of Phase I of a UNDP-financed Regional
Physical Planning Study carried out by the consultants OTAM-METRA and on the
follow-up identif).cation of main project elements by a Bank mission in
September 1972. M' ject preparation was undertaken by the Ministry of
Construction (M      nd its consultants, Korea Engineering Consultants
Corporation (KECC)  This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission which    ited Korea from November 20 - December 17, 1973 and was
composed of Messrs. R.A. Sison (Chief of Mission), K.M. Gyi, S. Sandstrom
and A. Saravanapavan of the Bank; F. Bourgois (FAO-IBRD/CP) and Mrs. M.O.
Smith, Messrs. K. Hansen and P. Nichols (Consultants). Messrs. E. Njomo
(Young Professional) and W. Guckian (FAO-IBRD/CP) also assisted in the
preparation of the report. Following a Government decision in March to
reduce the original size of the project in light of a reduction in the
Korean development budget brought about by a sharp increase in the price
of oil, Messrs. R.A. Sison and K.M. Gyi made subsequent visits to Korea in
March/April and August 1974 for discussions.
1/   Gwangju region is located in the southwestern corner of Korea and
consists of Jeonra Nam Province and two counties of Jeonra bug Province.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Economy and Recent Trends
2.01      In 1973, the Government issued a Long Term Perspective Plan
(1973-81) which raised the target average annual growth in GNP from 8.6%
to 9.5% for the period 1973-76, and to 11% for the period 1977-81. The
Long Term Plan envisaged US$1,000 equivalent average income per capita and
US$10 billion of exports by the early 1980's.
2.02      The steep increase in petroleum prices in late 1973 had a parti-
cularly severe impact on Korea, which depends heavily on imported fuel.
The Government has reduced development expenditures tenmporarily, but has
retained its development plan and expects to achieve its long term growth
targets.  This expectation is based on the very strong external and internal
position of the economv prior to the increase in oil prices, and a continued
reliance on large external borrowings.
2.03      On December 7, 1974, the Government took steps to intensify its
export promotion activities, stimulate production and maintain employment.
The exchange rate was devalued from Won 400 per US$ to Won 485 per US$.
Export credits for imported raw materials and domestic goods were increased.
Prices of petroleum products and electricity (except for households) and
railway rates were raised between 31 and 42 percent. In the future, Govern-
ment approval must be obtained for price increases for 58 selected basic
items. The interest rate on time deposits has been increased to stimulate
savings, and the bulk of Government investment for 1975 will be undertaken
in the first six months of the year to create new jobs and offset the slack
in the economy. Special credits have been instituted to spur private invest-
ment and additional financial assistance is being provided to small and
medium businesses. About 330,000 new public jobs are being created and
preference in hiring is being given to persons in the lower income group.
About 87,000 new housing units are to be constructed by the Government in
addition to the 120,000 previously planned.
2.04      A major objective of the Long Term Plan, to achieve a more
balanced growth among sectors of the economy, has now become even more
important in liglht of recent economic developments.  The impact of risiing
prices and lagging wages, particularly on the agricultural sector, is likely
to become severe and reinforce existing imbalances.  Betweent 1960 and 1970,
Korea changed from a relatively slow growing traditional a,,ricultural eco-
nomy to a semi-industrial economny.  Ihe manufacturing sector e.Kpanded at
an average annual rate of 17, in contrast to the agricultural sector which
expanded at an annual rate of 4;.  The disparities in productivity and
growth were reflected in an increasingly uneven distribution of social and
economic benefits between urban and rural areas, and among regions.



-3-
2.05      In the 1960's, over three quarters of all new manufacturing employ-
ment was located in Korea's three major cities, Seoul, Busan and Daegu,
which as dynamic industrial centers attracted heavy in-migrations. Between
1966 and 1970, Seoul increased in population by 9.8% a year, Busan by 7.2%
and Daegu by 6.4%. The national average increase in population was 1.8% a
year. By 1970 the three major cities accounted for 54% of the urban popu-
lation (15.7 million) and 27% of the national population (31.5 million);
the regions of Seoul and Busan alone contributed 51% of the gross national
product.
B. Regional Problems and Disparities
2.06      Gwangju region in the southwest extremity of the country (21ap
10970) is poor, backward and strongly oriented toward traditional agricul-
ture. The region contains 4 million people, 3 million of whom live in
rural communities. Although the region comprises 13,326 km2 or 13% of the
total land area of Korea, much of the land is mountainous and heavily forested;
only 30% is arable. The result is high farm population densities - 706
persons per km2 of cultivated land - which are found mainly along the south
and west coastal area (where there is mixed farming and fishing) and inland
to Gwangju City. Such high densities fragment farm land ownership (the
average size is 0.8 ha) restrict efficient farming, and contribute to a high
rate of rural out-migration.
2.07      Income levels in Gwangju area are among the lowest in the country.
Seventy-two percent of the region's working population is employed in
agriculture, forestry and fishing, compared to 50%O for the nation; 8% is
employed in mining and manufacturing, compared to 14% for the nation, and
20% in the transportation, communications, commerce and service sectors.
Gwangju region's output is only 8% of the national product.
2.08      Average income per farm worker in Gwangju is less than half the
average income per worker in manufacturing and mining, and the gap is widening.
Between 1966 and 1972 value added per employee in agriculture fell by an
annual average of 1.5% while in mining and manufacturing it rose by an annual
average of 18.2%. The low level of farm incomes has had two effects. First,
farmers are taking supplementary off-farm jobs; 17% of total farm household
income derives from non-farm activities, and the percentage is expected to
rise as supplementary job opportunities increase. Second, the rural popu-
lation is diminishing. Between 1966 and 1970, the region's rural population
declined by 6%. It is estimated that 85% of the rural migrants left the
region, mostly for Seoul, and the balance went to Gwangju City, Mogpo,
Suncheon and Yeosu within the region.
2.09      The cities of the region do not have the facilities to accommodate
the population increases they have experienced. During the 196Os Gwangju
City, the administrative capital, doubled in size (from 228,000 to 503,000)
absorbing 69%o/ of the four cities' population increase; the population of the
four cities together grew from 525,000 (15% of the region's population) to
885,000 (22%).  In 1970, only 60% of urban families had their own housing,



- 4 -
and the existing housing stock was badly overcrowded. Water supply anld
waste disposal systems became inadequate, and in Gwangju City 57% of
urban households were served with piped water. Unemployment in the four
cities reached 13% in 1970.
C. Government Programs for Gwangju Region
2.10      The backwardness of Gwangju can be attributed in part to a
relative lack of public and private investment in the past. For example,
in 1966 Government investments in Gwangju amounted to only W 5,000 (US$13)
per capita, while the average national investment was more than twice as
high or W 11,000 (US$28 per capita). The low level of investment accorded
Gwang'u throughout the 1960's retarded the diversification and modernization
of the region's heavily agricultural economy. Gwangju's gross regional
product increased at an average rate of about 4%' between 1966 and 1970.
while Korea's GNP increased at an average annual rate of about 11% (Annex 1).
2.11      The Goverinment's investment targets in the new Long Term Perspective
Plan are to correct the imbalances of the 1960's. While the energy crisis
has caused the Government to reexamine its development budget, the Govern-
ment has retained its plans to disperse industrial and urban growth away from
Seoul, Busan and Daegu. Over half of total investment outlays in the
Perspective Plan are for development of infrastructure (transportation,
electricity, communications, industrial sites) and essential services
(housing, health facilities, education) necessary to draw industries to
Korea's secondary cities and accommodate their rising populations. Ten
percent of investment outlays are for agriculture and rural public works.
2.12      The Government anticipates a doubling of the urban population in
Gwangju region and a tripling of the urban labor force (including the
increasing seasonal and part-time participation of farmers in off-farm
activities) by 1981. Plans are to increase manufacturing and mining employ-
ment three-fold (from 104,000 to 293,000) and transportation, commerce and
services employment two-fold (from 276,000 to 621,000). The change in employ-
ment structure would achieve an 11%. average annual increase in regional product
for Gwangju and should quadruple regional per capita incomes by the early
1980's.  Disparities in average regional and national per capita incomes
should begin to diminish.
2.13      The Government's strategy for balanced regional development through
industrial decentralization and increased agricultural productivity, is
based on Phase I of a VTNDP Regional Physical Planning Study undertaken in
1969. Eight planning regions were designated by the Ministry of Construction
and these regions were analyzed in terms of their resources, potentialities
and constraints. The study proposed decentralization through the development
of selected large regional centers and offered broad regional and urban
planning guidelines which were incorporated in the 'National Land Development
Plan, 1972-81 (Annex 2). Gwangju region was identified as the first area for
development.



- 5 -
2.14      Accordingly, the Government has asked the UNDP to focus in its
Phase II study (to be completed in September 1975) on developing a program
of investments in urban and rural sectors of Gwangju. The program is to be
aimed at the medium- and long-term growth of the region, and is to elaborate
the regional development strategy of accelerated agricultural growth and
industrial dispersion formulated in the Phase I study.
D. UJrban and Rural Development
2.15      The Government has increased its level of public investment in
the region over the past several years. Major investments have been made
with Bank assistance (see para 2.17) to improve the region's transport
network, and to expand and diversify agricultural production. In 1972 the
Government increased its agricultural budget by 25% in support of the "New
Community" or Sae Mlaeul Movement, a self-help program to raise agricultural
incomes and productivity through small scale works and the provision of
off-farm employment opportunities in cottage industries. The Sae Maeul
Movement is particularly active in Gwangju region: in 1973, of US$57 million
expended by the Government in support of the Movement, 18% was expended in
Gwangju.
2.16      The increased level of public investment in Gwangju has begun to
be matched by an increased level of private investment. The Government has
granted special tax exemptions to private firms locating in the region, and
as a result of a 1972 Ministry of Commerce and Industry study has designated
certain industries for location around each city. In areas surrounding
Gwangju City and Mogpo, industries have been identified which take advantage
of the raw materials and labor surpluses of the region. The industries -
food processing, textiles and machine manufacturing, glass making, fish
processing and plywood - also develop the region's export potential. In
areas surrounding Yeosu and Suncheon, heavy industries have been identified -
steel, chemicals, metals, machine making, fertilizers, and petrochemicals.
A fertilizer plant (the first of a series) is now under construction.
2.17      Industrial development, however, has been limited by the Govern-
ment's inattention to the region's urban areas, particularly to urban infra-
structure to support new manufacturing investments and the growing population
of the cities. The cities have inadequate financial resources and poor
management capacity to undertake more than piecemeal developments. Urban
master plans map the intended growth of the cities, but they do not adequately
take into account the requirements and resources of the urban areas, nor do
they reflect central government investment plans. Urban investments have
been for the most part uncoordinated and sporadic.



E. The Role of the Bank
2.18      The Bank has for several years financed projects in the Gwangju
region. Bank investments in the transportation system have virtually opened
up the region to major new markets. In 1973 Gwangju City was linked by
national highway to Suncheon and other cities within the region, and to the
major port of Busan (under Loan 769-KO; First Highway Project). Other road
developments are now being carried out in the region with the assistance of
the Bank (under Loan 956-KO; Second Highway Project). The Bank has also under-
taken a program of developments in agriculture (Yong San Gang River Basin
Irrigation; Livestock Development; Seed; Agricultural Credit; and Integrated
Agricultural Products Processing projects), and has recently assisted the
educational sector of the region (through a Second Educational Project).
2.19 The proposed project is designed to develop the capability of
the Government to prepare and implement investments integrated in a regional
context. It focuses on first stage investments in the urban areas of the
region that are complementary to investments in the other sectors and that
demonstrate the developmental role of the cities in the region.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The project forms part of the Government's investment plan
(1973-81) in the Gwangju region. It supports government initiative in estab-
lishing a regional development program in Gwangju and other planning regions
through institutional development and regional planning assistance. The
project focuses on Gwangju's four major cities as potentially dynamic
centers in the region, and provides for investments in public services and
facilities that are vital to the cities' long-term objectives of greatly
expanded employment opportunities and an efficient pattern of development.
The project, details of which are listed in Annex 3, consists of:
(a) Urban infrastructure including:
(i)  Uousing sites and services in Gwangju City, Mogpo
and Yeosu (112,000 py); 1/
(ii) A fishery harbor complex with an industrial processing
zone (65,130 py) in Yeosu;
(iii) A city market in Suncheon (10,029 py); and,
(iv) Access roads in Yeosu and Mogpo (6.61 km).
2
1/   1 pyong= 3.307 m



-7
(b,) Technical Assistance:
(i)  to assist in the establishment and operation of
the Gwangju Regional Development Unit (GRDU) at
the provincial level of Government;
(ii)  to strengthen regional planning at the national
level of Government;
(iii)  to provide advisory assistance for the management
and operation of the Yeosu fishery harbor complex;
(iv)  to prepare a program involving provision of technical
assistance in water supply operation and management
and identification of short-term improvements in the
water supply systems in the four cities; and
(v)  to carry out feasibility studies and the preparation
of selected projects to be identified in the UNMDP
Phase II Study and in studies undertaken by MOC.
B. Detailed Features
llousing Sites and Services
3.02      The housing sites and services component is a pilot scheme
representing the first stage of planned developments in the cities of Gwangju,
Mogpo and Yeosu.  The project component would provide 1,893 serviced plots
and related community facilities covering an area of 37 ha out of a total
area to be developed of 274 ha. The project constitutes a new approach to
meeting the large housing deficit in Korea; it facilitates housing construction
by low-income groups who have been unable to participate in public housing
programs due to limited financial resources and high building costs
(Annex 4).  Under the project, fina!gngwou~lLdbe-made. aallable for purchase
of serviced nlol ad_=   stinct .Parture f;m,,,m _ the outright cash purchase of
lan&-T u-iired under existing program,m.  Site. development would.b-e.1na- cpst,
and hoUsT4g-aiiig oulh1aTIow for minimum cost and maximum self-hely ,Qfl-
st rtion.  The project aims at balanced community -devepmentrt,i;-wiie 70% of
the serviced plots would be made available to low-income families, and would
allow multi-family occupancy consistent with Korean custom, the remainder
at higher standards and costs would be made available to higher income groups.
Low income beneficiaries would be selected by the cities based on agreed
criteria (para 5.04). The Government is currently formulating a national
housing policy and the experience gained under this project would serve to
guide the development of low-cost housing programs.



- 8 -
3.03      In each city, several available alternative sites were investigated
and priorities determined. Locational choice for the project sites was based
on a number of factors including: (i) accessibility to job locations;
(ii) price of land; (iii) consistency with the city's master plan; (iv) cost
of major infrastructure; (v) availability of land suitable in size and
natural conditions (topography, soil, water, etc.).
3.04      Site layouts were based on analysis of topography, soils, drainage
patterns and natural features. Annex 5 describes the site characteristics,
planning criteria and design standards. To realize economies, cluster
development involving 50 to 75 lots and further divided into two to three
smaller blocks varying between 20-25 lots was adopted. Separation between
clusters is effected by the location of green areas. The locational
arrangements and sizes of lots have been designed to allow for high population
density (430 persons/ha) and efficient use of space. Between 73-76% of the
total area is allocated to lots, 18-21% to circulation (footpaths and roads),
2% to community facilities and 4-6%/' to public areas.
3.05 ,   Thr e sizes of serviced lots 35,50, and 70 py (equivalent to
116 m2, 165 m , and 231 m2 respectively) were selected as appropriate after
a review of the likely pattern of spatial development in each city and2
desired minimum standards.  Seventy percent of the lots2would be 116 m  lots
sold at cost to low-income families; 20% would be 165 m lots sold at cost
to middle-income families; 10% would be 231 m2 lots sold at least 30% above
allocated cost to high-income families. Cities would retain title to the plots
sold to low and middle-income groups until repayment is completed. Specific
covenants on the larger lots sold to high-income groups would ensure that
land uses are in accord with the master plan. The lots have been designed
to take full advantage of street frontage and minimize infrastructure costs.
For instance, major circulation is by footpaths which connect all lots with
public areas and facilities and serve as cluster entrances.
3.06      In designing the infrastructure, standards were reduced to the
minimum consistent with sound engineering. A detailed analysis was made of
the minimum requirements of each housing site and consideration given to
the Ministry of Construction's prescribed standards and anticipated require-
ments for future urban growth. The minimal standards adopted are appropriate
for conditions in Korea.
3.07      All lots would be serviced with individual connections for water
supply, drainage and electricity. Households would continue to utilize the
existing system of holding tanks for disposal of sewerage. The cities have
adequate facilities (trucks, equipment and personnel) for the disposal of
human wastes to meet the immediate requirements of the project.  The prepara-
tion of feasibility studies for long-term improvements in sewerage, drainage
and night soil disposal is included in the project. Footpaths (4 m wide)
would provide major circulation for pedestrians and bicycles, and would connect
all lots with public areas and facilities. Secondary roads (5 m wide) would
be provided for vehicular and pedestrian access to residential plots. Jlain



-9-
roads (7 m to 9 m wide) would serve as collector roads linking the off-site
access and circulation roads to secondary roads. Due to the small size of
the housing sites and services components and the central location of the
sites, the need for community facilities is relatively small. Only a small
health clinic would be required in Mogpo. All three sites are within walking
distance of existing primary schools that would be able to accommodate
anticipated increase in enrollment.
3.08      Details of the proposed infrastructure facilities are described
in Annex 5, and project layouts are provided in NIap Nos. 11082, 11083 and 11085.
Housing
3.09      Although housing construction is not financed out of the loan, the
appraisal mission reviewed proposed housing designs for low-income families.
Because of extreme weather conditions in Korea, houses are built of more
substantial materials than houses in more temperate zones and require additional
costs for insulation and heating. Housing designs were scaled to a minimum
to reduce costs as much as practicable without endangering the viability of
eaclh site.  Further reduction in costs could come by waY2of a larger propor-
tion of self-help labor. The proposed design for a 40 m house has two
bedrooms, one kitchen, one living room and one toilet. Families have a number
of options on the design and can select alternative floor plans in which
savings in construction costs can be realized through self-help labor. The
total cost of the prototype house is about W 605,000 (US$1,500), less than
half the W 1.5-2.0 million per housing unit presently being made available
to low-income households. About 33% of the total construction cost is for
insulation and heating.  The houses are designed to accommodate eight persons.
The average per capita building area is about 5.1 m2 which compares favorably
with other Asian countries. The cities through the Korea Housing Corporation
would provide potential home builders technical advice on design, construction
materials, and self-help construction techniques.
Yeosu Fishery Elarbor Complex
3.10      Yeosu has two ports, an old port which is badly congested by
passenger and coastal shipping and commercial fishing vessels, and a cargo
port which handles exports and imports related m.ainly to heavy industry.
Congestion and poor facilities at the old port have restricted fish landings
by Yeosu's fishermen. The project component provides for the first stage
construction of a new fishery harbor complex in the Gukdong area of Yeosu
(see HIap 11086). The harbor complex when completed would have an annual
handling capacity of about 150,000 tons of fish and marine products landed
by vessels operating in the coastal waters of South Korea and in offshore
fishing grounds of the East China Sea, and a handling capacity for about
40,000 tons of frozen fish to be landed by deep sea trawlers. The harbor
complex would shelter and service a motorized fishing fleet of about 360
vessels. The project component also provides for the development of serviced
industrial sites for the establishment of fish processing plant and auxiliary
services to the fishing industry. The sites would be provided with roads,
water supply, drainage and electricity. About 23% of the area already has



- 10 -
four factories dealing with fish processing and canning. On the remaining
sites it is proposed to locate about 11 factories dealing with fish processing
canning, fish meal and powder and the manufacture of box containers. The
site could be expanded towards the southwest to about 27 ha.
3.11      Briefly, the elements of the project component include:
(a)  The construction of a fishery harbor consisting of:
(i)  Site reclamation and earth works;
(ii)  Construction of about 820 m of landing and berthing quays,
and about 240 m of piers and abutments with a depth
alongside of 6 m for the larger vessels, and 4 m for the
smaller at lowest low water datum (LLW);
(iii)  Construction of all infrastructure for the port complex
(roads, water supply, electricity, drainage and sewerage
works);
(iv)  Provision and installation of services and facilities
(oil bunkering, telephone lines, underground cables, and
port area lighting);
(v)  Construction of all port complex buildings (fish market,
transit and storage warehouses, storage buildings for
the fishing fleet, administrative and control building);
(vi)  Procurement and installation of all mechanical handling
equipment, including cold storage plant, ice making
equipment, etc.; and
(vii)  Procurement and installation of navigational aids (channel
marking buoys, shore beacons, etc.).
(b)  The industrial sites and services development of 12.5 ha of
land adjacent to the fishery harbor for the fishing industry
(roads, water supply, electricity, drainage, and sewerage
works); and
(c)  Consultants' services for the detailed engineering, design, and
supervision of the works until completion.
3.12      The project would provide a safe harbor for all fishing vessels
utilizing the port, and the landing and berthing facilities would provide
efficient and speedy unloading of catches, servicing of vessels, and turn-
around for the fishing fleet. The new berths could be used for vessels up
to 110 GRT for the daily iced catches, and up to 1,000 GRT for the deep sea
frozen catches. Space would be provided for future expansion of berthage
and other additional processing facilities and extensions. Details of the
project component are given in Annex 6.



- 1 1 -
Suncheon City Market
3.13      The proposed project component involves the construction of a city
market complex on 3.3 ha of land with three buildings providing a total
covered floor space of 0.42 ha which would cater for retail stalls (e.g. grain,
fish and daily necessities). In addition, sheltered space of 0.16 ha for
fresh produce, 0.99 ha of paved area for daily market and 0.90 ha of unpaved
surface for 5-day market (so-called since market day is held every 5th day)
have been provided. Retail stalls (average size 13 m2) would have individual
storage facilities and additional storage facilities would be provided by
the market administration. Stalls would be awarded giving preference to
merchants now renting in the old market. Differential pricing would be
administered for stall location and size. Equipment for cleaning and
servicing (e.g. garbage trucks) would be provided by the city. The site
selected by the city government, located south of the city, is appropriate
in size and has taken into account the future direction of urban growth. It
is readily accessible and is served by arterial roads from outlying rural
areas. Soil, drainage and topographical conditions are favorable and site
planning has incorporated the requirements of vehicular traffic and pedestrian
movements.
3.14      Two smaller city markets (about 1.14 ha) presently serve local
needs in the northern and central parts of the city. Based on market surveys
carried out by the city, the project would provide space sufficient to meet
the requirements up to the early 1980's. The project layout is provided in
MIap No. 11084.
Access Roads
3.15      Access roads in Yeosu and Mogpo are needed to link the proposed
housing sites to industrial or commercial centers of activity. In Yeosu, the
access road would connect both the harbor complex and the housing site to the
city and provide a direct access to the main highway. In Mogpo, the access
road provides a direct link between the housing site and existing and proposed
industrial sites. Construction and improvement of 6.61 km of urban roads
including three bridges in Yeosu and two in Mfogpo are involved. Detailed
engineering of the proposed urban roads was undertaken by KECC. The road
lengths selected for financing have been identified in each of the cities'
master plans and form an integral part of the street system. Design criteria
for speed, critical grade length, minimum vertical curves and minimum horizontal
radii which were adopted from the MOC's "Highway Geometric Design Code" have
b   -reV  bew7t1  appraisal mission and appear reasonable for urban roads.
Technical Assiqtgaae-
3.16      Consulting services would be required during the implementation
of the projec    C        ans to GRDU would assist the Project Manager with
project impleervisject
moni     g      and evaluation. They would also assist G         a a
wo               c would inc1d  E-rdwV ef- - e  Tgt  irjT&i -ngframework, -
revi       sertoram  investment programs, development          of a program of self-help '
housing construction, mobilization of private investment, review of urban             J



- 12 -
devel,Qpment plans, and-develapnent of a training program.  A consultant in
regional planning would be assigned t"ihCeTlOCG_tb assist the staff of the
National Planning Bureau in the review of regional development policies and
provincial programs as well as the investigation of a program for self-help
housing construction for low-income families.
3.17      As.s1tance to the Office,of Fisheries would be required for the
,maanagement and operation of the fishery harbor complex in Yeosu. Advisory
assistance would be provided to the H1arbor_Banager_n the overall management
of the port, development of operating and financial objectives, operation and
maintenance of variousi port facilities, preparation of a master plani rx_-J
gSamming of capital improvements, and coordination between existing-ports
inCY,eosu, an*dusers of the new harbor complex.  Present port charges would be
examined. The level of tariffs, sufficient to cover operating and administra-
tive expenses, maintenance and debt service requirements and some portion of
future capital investments would be reviewed by consultants. Assistance
would also be provided for day-to-day operation of fish vessels and vehicular
traffic movements, development of access channels, off-shore safety regula-
tions, and preparation of port expansion plans.
3.18      A large component of technical assistance is for the prep ra#4on
of a program of immediate improvements that can be made with operational and
management--assistance to the four cities including the identification of
short-term improvements in the water supply sysfems.'
3.19      Consultants would also be employed to undertake feasibility studies
of selected projects to be identified in the UNDP Plhase II Study and in
studies undertaken by MOC.
3.20      The general scope of work for consultants is shown in Annex 7.
Agreements were reached during negotiations that consultants under the above
technical assistance program would be employed on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank.
IV.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, COST RECOVERY AND PRICING
A. Cost Estirmates
4.01      Cost estimates are detailed iyr"Annex 3 4d summarized below:



- 13 -
% Foreign
In W4 Million               In US$ Million       Exchange
Projact Components          Looal   ForeWin    Total    Local   Foreiin   Total    Com,ponent /2
A. Housing Sites and Services   1,071.6    720.0  1,791.6    2.7     1.8      4.5        51%
B. Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex  1,678.5  1,709.5  3,388.0    4.2    4.3      8.5        52
C. Suncheon City Market          179.6    148.7    328.3    0.4      0.4      0.8        48
D.---,Access Roads               690.6    421.2  1,111.8    1.7      1.1      2.8        48
E. Technical Assistances
--    (i) Action Prograe            57.6    76.8    134.4    0.1       0.2      0.3         57
(ii) Advisory Assistance to
GRDU and Regional Planning  34.8    162.0   196.8    0.1     0.4      0.5        82
!(iii) Fishery Complex Management
i   - Assistance                74.8    93.2    168.0     0.2      0.2      0.4        55
(i,v) Feasibility Studies and
Preparation of Selected
Projects                 110.8    90.0   200.8      0.3      0.2      0.5         45
Subtotal         3,898.3  3,421.4  7,319.7    9.7      8.6    18.3         52%
Contingencies /1
- Physical                   4210.1    438.9    849.0    1.0      1.1      2.1        52
- Price                       891.2    940.1  1,831.3    2.2      2.4      4.6        51
Grand Total      5,199.6  4,800.4  10,000.0    12.9    12.1    25.0        48% 12
A   Consisting of an overall physical contingency of 15%. For price escalation, compounded annually on base
construction costs and physical as follows:
1974       1975         1976-80
(a) Civil Works      115%                     12% p.a.
(b) Equipment        14%         11%         7.5% p.a.
/2  Percentage calculated on total, net of land acquisition costs.
x3   O toa projet oouta.
4.02        Based upon the exchange rate of Won 400 to the US$ that prevailed
prior to December 7, 1974 when the Won was devalued to 485 to the US$, the
total cost of the project, inclusive of land acquisition costs, is estimated
at W 10.0 billion (US$25.0 million). The foreign exchange component of
W 4.8 billion (USS12.t million)  reflecting both direct and indirect costs,
represents 48% of the total. The foreign exchange costs of the project
will not be affected by the devaluation. The local currency costs will be
higher if local prices rise as a result of the higher cost of imports in
Won terms. The Government is taking measures to moderate price increases;
rises in local prices resulting from the devaluation should be less than the
amount of the devaluation. Local costs expressed in US$ will be somewhat
less because of the devaluation. Cost estimates for access roads are based
on detailed engineering and those for housing sites, city market and fishery
port are based on advanced preliminary engineering. Cost estimates are
based on early October 1974 costs. Physical and price contingencies together
comprise 29% of the estimated total project cost, net of land acquisition.
This is considered adequate because the price of land to be acquired for
the project would be frozen and the implementation schedule for civil works
is relatively short.



- 14 -
B. Financial Arrangements
4.03      The total project cost of US$25.0 million would be financed as
follows:
% of
Total          Source & Amount (in US$ Million)
Project  Total    Bank       Government   'City of
Project Component           Cost    Cost      Loan    Contribution  Suncheon
Housing Sites and
Services                 24.2      6.05    2.08           3.97
Yeosu Fishery Harbor
Complex                  48.6    12.15    9.25            2.90        -
Suncheon City Market         4.9     1.23    0.74            -          0.49
Access Roads                15.3     3.82    1.93           1.89
Technical Assistance         7.0     1.75    1.00           0.75
100.0    25.0    15.0            9.51        0.49
The Bank loan to the Government of Korea, amounting to US$15.0 million would
cover 60% of total project costs. The Government would provide about US$9.51
million of total project costs, which would include US$2.4 million of Korea
Hlousing Bank funds for housing sites. Suncheon City would provide about
US$0.49 million for the construction of the Suncheon City market.
4.04      The Ministry of Construction as Executing Agency would be responsible
for all construction. As the facilities are completed, they would be turned
over to the respective cities for operation and maintenance, except in the case
of the fishery harbor complex where the Office of Fisheries ( a Government
department) would be responsible for management and operation. For the
housing sites and services, the cities would borrow funds from the Government
and from the Korea Housing Bank (KHB) to cover expenditures for land acquisi-
tion, site preparation, civil works, green areas, engineering and the
construction of off-site infrastructure and community facilities. The Govern-
ment would reimburse the cities for the costs of engineering services, off-
site infrastructure, community facilities, green areas and engineering by
making appropriate payments to the cities in accordance with the cities
amortization schedules for the Government and KHB loans. The terms of the
cities' financial obligations to the Government would be as follows: (a) no
interest would be charged until the development of sites is completed;
(b) during the period of site development, the cities would pay to the
Government on a quarterly basis all payments (down payments, monthly payments,
cash sales) received from purchasers of the lots; and, (c) when the develop-
ment of sites is completed, the cities would repay to the Government a sum
equal to the expenditures incurred on the cities' behalf less the aggregate
of lot purchaser payments paid to the Covernment during construction. The
cities would also repay the KHB the loan taken specifically for the housing
sites and services project component. For the Suncheon City market, the
city would assume an obligation to pay the Government about US$0.74 million,



- 15 -
the portion of the Bank loan used to finance the market, at the time the
market is completed and turned over to the city. These financial obligations
would be incorporated in Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government
and the cities. The ratification of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements is a
condition for loan effectiveness.
4.05      The terms of the cities' repayment for the housing sites and services
would be as follows: for that portion of the Government's loan, it would be
over a period of 25 years, including a grace period of 7 years and at a rate
of interest of 8% per annum on the amount outstanding from time to time; on
the KHB portion, over a period of 15 years, including a grace period of 3
years at an interest rate of 8% per annum on the amount outstanding from time
to time. For the market, the city of Suncheon would repay the loan to the
Government over a period of 25 years, including a grace period of 7 years
at an interest rate of 8% per annum on the amount outstanding from time to
time.
4.06      Details of the financial arrangements are described in Annex 8.
C. Cost Recovery and Pricing
4.07      For the housing sites and services, the costs of land, site prep-
aration and on-site infrastructure would be recovered from site occupants.
The Government would absorb the costs of off-site infrastructure, community
facilities, green areas and engineering. This financial arrangement implies
that, with a total component cost of US$6.05 million (or W 2,418 million),
US$3.39 million would be recovered directly from site occupants. The balance
of US$2.66 million would be recovered through general charges, taxes and fees
as described in Annex 9.
4.08      The entire cost of the Suncheon city market would be recovered
from merchants through rentals and deposits. There would be monthly rentals
for the buildings and the sheltered market, and daily rentals for the open
market. The deposits would be non-refundable but a lessee could transfer
his right to lease. In the case of Yeosu fishery harbor complex, the port
management would obtain revenues from the sale of industrial sites, from the
lease of port facilities, and from port charges and landing fees. From
these sources plus income taxes from expanded activities, the Government would
generate sufficient revenues to cover capital costs and ensure adequate
funds for operation and maintenance.
Terms to Households
4.09      The cities would charge lot occupants the allocated cost for the
116 m2 and 165 m2 lots, and at least 30% above allocated cost for 231 m2 lots.
The individual lot prices and the total sale prices by the city are shown in



- 16 -
Annex 8. A 20% down payment on lot purchases would be required from low-
income households buying the 116 m2 lots. This amount of down payment is
within the capacity of low-income families to meet because renters normally
pay a deposit equivalent to W 70,000 per room which is refunded, without
interest, when the renter leaves. A 50% down payment would be required
from medium-income households buying 165 m2 lots. The repayment terms for
the balance would be 12% interest over 15 years, with no grace period for
either households. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
The 231 m2 lots would be sold on a cash basis only. The proposed interest
rate to beneficiaries of 12% is higher than the present interest rate charged
for public housing of 8%. The proposed interest rate would enable the cities
to have a cushion for administrative expenses and cover any defaults. The
Government is embarking on a major study of housing goals and policies and
the question of appropriate interest rates for housing would receive particular
attention in this study, in the overall context of both resource mobilization
ad4-iousing costs.
4.10      Financing for the cost of housing construction for low- and
middle-income site occupants would be made available by the Korea Housing
Bank (KHB) th-rough the citAes. Up to 80% of the housing construction cost
would be financed-iaidthe repayment terms would be 12% over 15 years which is
higher than the prevailing 8% rate for public housing. In addition, initial
debt service payments up to 15% lower than those required under constant
monthly payments would be allowed although subsequent debt payments would
increase over time to meet the full amount of the purchasers' debt obligation.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. High-income
households (231 m2 lots) are expected to arrange their own financing for
house construction.
Monthly Charges
4.11      A household desiring to construct a 40.6 m  house on a 116 m  lot,
assuming that the 20% down payment on the lot, and 20% down payment on the
housing have been met, would experience the following monthly charges:
US$
Basic Charges             Yeosu  Mogpo  Gwangju
Land Development /a            13.31  12.53   12.32
Water                            1.73   1.73    1.45
Sewerage and Waste Disposal    0.73   0.73    1.08
Electricity                     2.50   2.50    1.25
Sub-total                 18.27  17.49   16.10
Housing /b                      12.58  12.58   12.58
Total                     30.85  30.07   28.68
/a   Terms:  20% down payment; balance at 12% for
15 years, with initial payment 15%
below face value.
/b   Terms:  20% down payment; balance at 12% for
15 years, with initial payment 15% below
face value.



- 17 -
4.12      These monthly charges have been estimated for 1976.  Assuming that
low income households can devote no more than 25% of their monthly incomes
to housing and utilities, over 80% of all households would have sufficient
incomes (based on the estimated 1976 national income distribution) to afford
a house on a 116 m2 lot. If the calculation is adjusted to compensate for
the lower average income in Gwangju region (see Table 1, Annex 5), households
with incomes just above the 20th percentile in the income distribution curve
would be reached. The project breaks important ground in Korea in focusing
on low-income group demand for housing, and in low-cost housing construction
techniques and financing. An examination of the experience of the combination
self-help and contractor-assisted housing under the project would be made.
In addition, an investigation of a program of total self-help housing
construction designed to meet demands of the very lowest income groups in
the country would be carried out during project implementation. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would undertake with
consultant assistance, an evaluation of the sites and services experience and
an investigation of an expanded program to include the lowest income groups.
Suncheon City Market
4.13      M4erchants would pay an initial non-refundable deposit averaging
US$54.4 per m2 inside the buildings, and US$18.1 per m2 in the sheltered
market area. Monthly rents would be US$0.76 per m2 inside the buildings,
and US$0.38 per m2 in the sheltered market area. Rents for the daily market
would be US$0.04 per m2, and US$0.05 per m2 for the unpaved 5-day market.
Agreement was reached that the city would impose these charges and rental
fees at the time occupancy takes place.
Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex
2
4.14      The industrial sites would be sold at a price of US$38 per m
Lease rents would be charged for the use of the fish auction market,
ice-making equipment, oil bunkering facilities and storage sheds. These
charges would be reviewed by the consultants during project implementation
to reflect more accurately the level of tariffs needed to meet the financial
objectives of the port operations.
D. Procurement
4.15      Contracts for civil works and for the supply of equipment, would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Civil works would be grouped to the extent possible
to encourage competitive bidding. Equipment, all of which is for the fishery
complex, would be procured by the Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea
(OSROK), the Government's central procurement agency. OSROK would be respon-
sible for advertising requests for tenders, issuing tender documents, evaluating



- 18 -
bids and awarding contracts. A preference of up to 15% or the applicable
custom duties, whichever is lower, would be applied to bidders offering
locally manufactured goods.
E. Disbursements
4.16      Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan would be made against
the following items:
(a) 100% of the CIF cost of imported equipment plus
installation;
(b) 60% of the cost of civil works; and
(c) 60% of consultants' services for studies, detailed
engineering and design, supervision and technical
assistance.
Savings in any category under the allocation of proceeds would be made
available for cost overruns in any other category. In the event, however,
that expenditures should exceed the present estimated cost of about W 10,000
million (US$25.0 million), such excess would be met by the Government. A
schedule of estimated Bank disbursements appears in Annex 10. In order to
start construction in the third quarter of 1975, detailed engineering is
currently in hand. Retroactive financing of about US$150,000 for detailed
engineering is included in the loan.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.17      A separate project account would be maintain=e__byJMQC.  As facil-
ities are corpqxi.a-etdturiiid'ovir to par'ticipating government agencies
they would submit to MOC quartaxly-f4nan iaL repo=tson-4inent project
components. Agreements were reached during negotiations, that an annual
audited record--sh_d be_vai1able to the Bank no later than six ii1iit7s
following'the close of the Government's fiscal year, until the completion of
project implementation.
G. Supervision
4.18      About 100 man-weeks of Bank staff time is s4ieduled for supervision
work during the four-year implementation period (Annex 11). /
'I_ 



- 19 -
H. Environmental Considerations
4.19      The Government is aware of the possible negative environmental
effects of the planned development of a petrochemical complex in Gwangyang
Bay on the fishery resource areas in Yeosu. Studies have been commissioned
to determine the effects of anticipated levels of water and air pollution,
and policies are being developed accordingly. With respect to the fishery
harbor complex component in the project, it was agreed during negotiations
that the Government would impose strict environmental conditions on plants
locating in the harbor complex to avoid pollution of the riverlets leading
to Gamag Bay.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MAliAGEMENT
A. Project Execution
5.01      The Government would be the Borrower of the Bank loan and would
designate the HIOC as Executing Agency. _ALaz giuJ,Reignl T'hhQn  °4t
(GRPUa=z uu.djer MOC -- would be estab  .LatepLial-level (Chart
8482R) i_y_resident         ee  n order to ensure efficiet _QQcops tive
arrangemen                                          ct. MOC would Appgit, prior
to t6 &rIf              a_tsiteness  a-suitably qualified Project lianager tohead GRDU with
t5;co4Xe*rrence -of thet Sank.
5.02      Construction Phase:  MOC through the GRDU would be responsible for
all construction. An implementation schedule.for individual components is
set out in Chart 8788R. During the construction phase the GRDU would coor-
dinate the details of project implementation, e.g. hiring of consultants,
preparation of work tasks, schedules and deliveries etc.; and would be
assisted by competent and qualified staff seconded from national government
agencies, trainees from the cities and personnel from the provincial govern-
ment of Jeonra Nam. The Government has agreed to employ qualified con-
sultants for the execution of the project (e.g. detailed engineering, design,
preparation of tender documents, supervision, etc.) and contractors acceptable
to the Bank, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
5.03      Operation and Administration:  -Uon
phase, MOC would turn over the far itt1     i a-ppopriat  agencies for manage-
me-nt, operation-4an-d-mai __iSeh z : Project Agreement between the Bank and
the proviiicdal government - which has jurisdiction over the cities - would
be undertaken with respect to the; eration and administration of the housing.
sites, city market and access roa s    The rat-ification of the Pron=Jt Agree-    A#
ment is a condition for loangL -    j.eris.  The Yeosu fishery harbor complex
would be turned over to the-Off-te  of' Fi-shazije  - a government department.
Each city would establish (an Urban Project UnitD(para 5.14) to be assisted  (  /r&
M.. ,.... .. .. - /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r,   f'



- 20 -
by the Korea Housing Corporation (KHC) principally for sale of serviced lots,
fo-r&-supervision of-construction of low-cost (self-help` hlousing prototypes in
each city, and for monitoring the project (Annex 12). During negotiations,
it was confirmed that arrangements with KHC in the form of a service contract
had been undertaken.
5.04      For the housing sites, secion of beneficiarieswoul -be made-L,
by the Urban Project Units (UPUs).  More definitive   iteri a would be devel-
oped but broadly they would include the following:  level of income, employment
status, family size, condition of present occupancy, amount and source of
down payment, etc. Preference would be given to families who do not presently
own a house and are working in commercial or industrial estates near the
proposed project sites. The cities have had experience with occupant
selection under the limited public housing programs undertaken previously.
5.05      A careful evaluation of progress is necessary so that the housing
sites and services project could be effectively replicated., Funds for
evalu~tionand monitoring of the project ,aeprovl_aspac rrt           t
assistance.  Specifically, an ex-post determi ±n_LQfJ_the following_would
se- m~d~Ti) the rate of housing construction (including self-help),
/(ii)he 2~xtent of technical assistance received by site occupants from the
A Urban Project Units and the Korea Housing Corporation, (iii) the extent to
which purchases of construction materials were made for self-help housing,
(iv) the level of income and expenditure of households, (v) the location of
housing sites vis-a-vis employment centers, community facilities, and others,
(vi) the effect of demonstration housing on household response to low-cost
methods and proposed designs, and, (vii) the effectiveness of financial
arrangements with respect to terms, conditions and repayments 
5.06      During negotiations agreements were reached that the Government,
would, as conditions f                       : (i) enforce provisions of_the
Land Expropriation and Planning Laws, and freeze land prices to avoid specul-
a  to-,     T-zi& s ary-'-noti&-cess delineating land to be acquired for
public purposes, and (ii) for the Fisher H_aboar Comp.le*eomponent in Yeosu,
the area southwest of the proposed site would be purchased or zoned and set
aside for future expansion of the harbor.
5.07      The Yeosu fishery harbor complex would be turned over to the
Office of Fisheries (OOF) for management and operation.  The Office of
Fisheries would appoint a harbor manager, an assistant manager for adminis-
tration, a traffic officer, and a port engineer for planning and maintenance.
The harbor manager who. would--be- responsibla for oveta14 u-aagernent gf Iie-
port-,-the setting of financial objectives and operating guidelines Would
be ass4sted by qualified consultants (provided under technical assistance -
see Annex 7) and supporting staff. The harbor manager would also be respon-
sible for development of the fishery indus trial zone and for the planning
of future harbor facilities (Annex 12). Uturing negotiations agreement was
reached that the harbor management staff would be assisted by qualified staff
and experienced consultants to be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.



- 21 -
5.08      During negotiations, it was confirmed that:  (i) in Yeosu, the
Government had temporarily stopped the sale of sites for fish processing
plants until detailed site planning and layout have been completed, and
(ii) had made necessary arrangements with the Korea Electric Company to
provide off-site electrical facilities needed for the project.
5.09      The city of Suncheon would be responsible for the management and
operation of the market facilities after completion of construction. The
access roads would be turned over to the cities for maintenance. Presently,
the cities are responsible for the maintenance of all urban roads and
have the necessary equipment and personnel to maintain these roads
reasonably well. The execution of the technical assistance studies and
advisory services would be the responsibility of the GRDU (para 5.12).
B terministerial Policy Committee C-- Ok7C1/f d a
5.10      The Government has agreed that the VicpJLnis.tera.onferepne for
Econo,mic Affair~_    Y-Z fy- V3e-I_e Minister of the Economic Planning Board
(EPB) and comprised of a senior representative of the President's Economic
Affairs Office and Vice Ministers of Ministries of Construction, Agriculture
and Fisheries, Home Affairs, Commerce and Industry, and Health would be
assigned the responsibilityofprovid           icv_guidance for regional planning
anp ning regi
Gwangju region.  It would also provide interagency coordination with resp'e'f-
to the proposed project.
/  C.  ,Provisional Advisory Committee
5.11      A Provincial Advisory Committee to be chaired by the Governor and
to include the four mayors, regional representatives of the Ministries,
and representatives of educational institutions and the private sector,
would also be estblncial
programs .  Areement to this effect was reached during negotiations.
D. GwjiSu Regional Development Unit
, -
5.12      The formal establishet.ofGRDLwould_ba a condition  W r J.U._,
effecive      e      need for CRDU arises from the fact that a number of
decision-making bodies in the local and provincial governments are involved
in the implementation of the project, and that special organizational
arrangements are required to coordinate the various bodies and to implement
the project in its regional context.  GRDU w
planningi engineering; management, -accouting--ard--trai-ning; and-pTtvatm
sector promotion. Specific responsibilities of GRDU are:



-22-
(i) to4UjW =91ee-1zd-eoeyi*n&te the implementation of the
Bank-financed project;
(ii)  to appoint consultants and         Lse the implementation
of feasibility studies, the evaluation imimionitoring
of the housing sites and services component,. and super-
vise the preparation and execution of an action program;
(iii)  to provide tecal 2cLtitce to Urban Project Units
to be estiablished in each of the participating cities;
(iv)  to coordnate                                  rom the
functional ministries into an integrated plan for the
region; and,
(v)  to prepare pol$cy- recommendations for a regional strategy
to be submitted to the Provincial Advisory Committee,
-HOC, and the Interministerial Policy Committee.
5.13      Qualified staff from MOC, other ministries and provincial govern-
ment and the participating cities would be seconded to the GRDU.  It is
envisaged that by the end of the project implementation period, the GRDU
would have developed the capability to continue ongoing regional planning
work. Agreements were reached during negotiations that the Project Manager
would be assisted by qualified and experienced consultants hired on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Project Manager would prepare
and submit a work program and schedules for the implementation of project
components (with appropriate CPM or PERT charts) no later than June 30, 1975.
E.  Urban Project Units
5.14      An Urban Project Unit, attached to the Mayor's office, would be
establisheT   e   respon7R_b``f.-he administration and operati=on. -pthe
hous4D&- sites, the pVanning and coordination of new capital investments,
the identificaiEton of potential projects, and the monitoring of progress
of the Bank-financed project. During negotiations, the Government agreed
that the cities would establish Urban Project Units, suitably staffed, at
the beginning of the construction phase of project component facilities.
Assurances were also obtained that the Provincial Government would ensure that
the cities would provide for the adequate maintenance of facilities constructed
under the loan.
F. Training
5.15      The GRDU with the assistance of consultants would coordinate and
provide training for staff assigned to Urban Project Units and other city
personnel involved in the implementation of the project.



- 23 -
VI.  SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. General
6.01      The primary objective of the proposed project is to develop the
institutional framework required to implement the Government's development
program for Gwangju. The project would also focus on several high priority
investments identified in this program -- mostly investments which are
complementary to others now being undertaken, and investments aimed at
demonstration effects and institution building. The project would increase
the productive capacity of the region in a comprehensive sense: facilities
and technical assistance would be provided for expanded fishery activities
and fish processing, for transportation, for trading of agricultural and
industrial products, and for production of housing services. Within the
region's four cities, the project would not only provide institutional
support and certain critical infrastructure, but also help the cities achieve
a more desirable and efficient spatial growth pattern in the future. The
project would support the cities in their crucial roles as centers for many
of the industrial, commercial and service activities that are vital to the
successful implementation of the overall regional development program.
6.02      The housing sites and services components of the proposed project
focus on a sector where new and more vigorous approaches are required. It
complements efforts toward the formulation of a national housing policy and
the implementation of a low-cost housing program. The stress on low-cost
housing construction techniques, and careful monitoring and evaluation of the
project should provide the experience required for further cost reductions
during later site development stages; not only in the four secondary cities,
but also elsewhere in Korea.
B. Economic Rates of Return
6.03      The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project as a whole is
estimated at about 28%.  For the individual cities and project components,
the rates of return are as follows:
Housing sites and services
Gwangju                        22
Mogpo                          19
Yeosu                          17
Fishery harbor complex - Yeosu    33
City market - Suncheon              17
Roads
Mogpo                          16
Yeosu                          34
Total for all project components  28



- 24 -
The costs and benefits considered as well as sensitivity analyses results
are described in detail in Annex 13.
6.04      In estimating the economic rates of return for housing sites and
services in the three cities, the benefits were measured by the imputed
annual rental value of comparable houses, while the costs were based on
detailed housing construction cost estimates made during appraisal and on
the opportunity cost of land. A similar calculation was made for the Suncheon
market; the rental value of the store space in the market buildings and
stall space in the open market area was estimated and considered in the light
of the costs of land acquisition, site preparation, infrastructure and buildings,
and of operation and maintenance. For the Yeosu fishery harbor complex,
benefits were quantified on the basis of the sale of industrial sites at market
value, on time and fuel savings for the existing fishing fleet, on the increased
catch of fish by an expanded fishing fleet, and on various port facilities.
The costs included both capital and operating costs of the port. Land valua-
tion was high indicating a high opportunity cost. The benefits of the roads
were determined by comparing vehicle operating costs and passenger travel
times with and without the roads.
C. Employment and Income Distribution Effects
6.05      The project would have a direct employment effect averaging some
2,000 full-time construction jobs during the implementation period. The
annual direct employment effect of the construction of houses (not part of
the project) on the housing sites would be about 600 jobs, extending
over about two and a half years. The long-term direct employment effect
would be about 5000 jobs, mostly related to the fishery complex and the
Suncheon market.
6.06      The project would benefit the population of Gwangju region, which
has the lowest average income in Korea. Within the region, the project
would also benefit the lowest income groups. Seventy percent of the housing
lots would be allocated to low-income households. The benefits from the
fishery harbor complex in Yeosu would mostly accrue to the local fishing
population and boat owners. The net revenues after deduction of direct
trip expenses would be shared among the crew members, the engineer, the
captain and the owner according to certain percentages, normally 60% to the
owner and 40% to the others. A portion of the increased revenues would
therefore go to the crew members.
D. Regional Development
6.07      Over the four-year implementation period 1975-78, project funds would
comprise more than 10% of the required net inflow of capital during this
period, if the goal of raising the region's per capita productivity from the



- 25 -
present 65% to 80% of the national average is to be achieved by 1981. The
project is also expected to induce substantial private investments.
6.08      The project would promote balanced regional development.  It is
complementary to the planned concentrated development of petrochemical and
heavy industries in the Gwangyang Bay area and to large investments in water
supply and agricultural processing industries, and it prepares the region
for the secondary effects of these and similar developments.
E. Urban Development
6.09      The project components have been planned in relation to one another
and to the planned growth of the cities. The housing sites and services
would be located near major employment centers in the respective cities.  In
Yeosu, the housing site and the fishery harbor components would be located
within walking distance of each other, and in Mogpo, the access road component
would link the housing site to an existing industrial estate. The housing
sites and services have, further, been planned so as to attract a socially
mixed group of occupants. The project would help the cities by providing the
infrastructure for a large portion of their planned expansion over the next
few years while at the same time also providing the necessary funds for studies
and feasibility studies of more specific infrastructure development projects
in the near future.
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following
principal points:                -
(a), Consultants would be employed for the execution of the
-  project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.02);
(b)  The repayment of the cities' loan obligations to the
Government and KHB would be on terms and conditions
as agreed with the Bank (para 4.04);
(c) The repayment of the housing site occupants' loan
obligations to the cities would be on terms and conditions
as agreed with the Bank (para 4.09);
(d)  The funds required for housing construction in project sites
for low- and middle-income families would be provided to
the Korea liousing Bank for administration by the cities angb_>, Y'"' 
would be on terms and conditions as agreed with the Bank               -
(para 4.10);



- 26 -
(e) The harbor management staff would be assisted by
qualified staff and experienced consultants to be
employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (para 5.07);
(f) Charges and rental fees for the Suncheon city market would
be imposed at the time occupancy takes place on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.13);
'(g)  The Government would assign to the Vice Ministers Conference
J  for Economic Affairs, the responsibility of providing policy
guidance for.-regional planning and develapmeifft", "and coordina-
tion with respect to the project (para--5:1-trt,-
(h)  The GRDU would hire qualified consultants acceptable to the
Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
and that the Project Manager, assisted by the consultants
and staff, would prepare a work program and implementation
schedule for the GRDU by no later than June 30, 1975 (para
5.13);
ti)  A Provincial Advisory Committee chaired by the Governor of
Jeonra''Nam Provlin- ce  anr>ose function shall be to advise
the Project Manager on major development programs to be
carried out in Gwangju region, would be established (para 5.11);
and
(i)  An Urban Proje~et Unit would be established in the Mayor's
Office in each of the four cities at the beginning of the
project construction period, and would be responsible for
the administration and operation of the serviced housing
sites, and the planning and identification of future urban
projects (para 5.14).
7.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that;
(a)  The MOC had established a Gwangju Regional Development Unit
(GRDU) to supervise, 6dor afe-aii-d -supp-oir-the implementa-
tion of the project, and to provide policy and program
recommendations for the region, and appoint a suitably qualified
Project Manager as head of GRDU (paras 5.01 and 5.12);
(b) The Government had, under authority of the Land Expropriation
and Planning Laws, published notices delineating the areas and
frozen the prices of land to be acquired for the project, and
purchased or zoned the area southwest of the proposed new
harbor site in Yeosu for future expansion (paras 5.06 and
5.08);
(c) The Project Agreement has been duly authorized and ratified
(para 5.03); and,
td) The Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been ratified (para 4.04).



- 27 -
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million
equivalent to the Government of the Republic of Korea for a term of 25 years
including a grace period of 7 years.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 10
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Gwangju Economic Development Prospects
Economic Growth and Structural Change in Korea
1.        Between 1960 and 1972, Korea's gross national product grew at
an impressive annual rate of 8.6% (see Table 1). During the same period,
the population growth rate declined (from 2.6%) in 1960 to 1.5% in 1972),
resulting in an average annual growth in real per capita GNP of 6.3%. By
1972, per capita GNP was US$300 in current prices.
2.        The growth of the Korean economy was marked by a rapid increase
in labor productivity (averaging 5.4% per year), a structural shift of
employment from primary to secondary and tertiary sectors (increasing at
8.6% per year and 5.4% per year respectively) and high marginal rate of
savings. 1/
3.        Notwithstanding temporary cutback of the development budget due to
the energy crisis in late 1973, the Government is maintaining present long-
term economic plans to continue the general growth pattern of the 1960's. 2/
Continuation of the structural shift in employment is planned:  by 1981, 35%
of employment would be in the primary sector, 23% in the secondary sector
and 42% in the tertiary sector compared to the present respective distribu-
tion of 51%, 14% and 35%. Continued increase in the average savings rate
(to 32% by 1981) and in per capita GNP (by 8.7% a year) is planned, and a
US$1,000 equivalent average income per capita envisaged by the early 1980's.
Manufacturing would continue to play a dominant role in Korea's development,
accounting for more than half of the planned growth.
4.        An important objective of the economic plans is elimination of the
disparity between urban and rural incomes by 1981. The ratio of farm house-
hold income to urban wage and salary earner household income was 83% in
1/   See IBRD, Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Republic of
Korea, February 20, 1974.
2/   These plans are expressed in Long Term Perspective Plan; Major Economic
Indicators of the Korean Economy (1973-1981), Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea, June 1973, which in effect supersedes the Third Five-
Year Economic Development Plan (1972-1976).



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 10
1972. 1/ Comparability is to be achieved by increasing agricultural product-
ivity by 5.6% a year, and by providing more off-farm employment opportunities
for farm households. An increase in the percentage of off-farm income to
total farm household income from 17% in 1972 to 50% in 1981 (a target which
is likely to be adjusted downward) is envisaged in the plans. 2/
Gwangju's Economy
5.        Most indicators show that Gwangju's economy is less developed
than the rest of Korea (see Table 1). Gross value added per capita is only
65% of the national average. Seventy-two percent of employment is in the
primary sector, compared to 50% for the nation, while only 8% is in the
secondary sector compared to 14% for the nation. The rate of growth of the
regional economy is lower than the average rate for the nation, and has been
declining in relation to the national growth rate (from 94% during 1960-66
to 43% during 1966-72). One major consequence of the region's poor economic
growth has been a substantial net outmigration from the region amounting
to about 2% annually since the mid 1960's. Although the rate of out-
migration has slowed since 1970, it can be expected to accelerate if far
more employment opportunities are not provided. Current projections are df
a labor force of 2.3 million by 1986 in Gwangju region - representing an
increase of 800,000 over the region's 1970 labor force. 3/
6.        There are several factors that help to explain the relatively low
level of economic development in Gwangju. First, the region is located in
the southwest corner of Korea and has been, until recent improvements in the
internal transport system were made, remote from major national population
and market centers. The new Honam Highway (financed in part under Bank
Loan 769-KO) linking Gwangju to the national highway system has reduced
this disadvantage substantially. Second, the region has traditionally been
used for agricultural production and foreign export. Growth of the agricul-
tural sector has tended to be far slower and more erratic, and value added
from agriculture far below that in other sectors. Third, Government emphasis
over the last decade has been on the rapid expansion of industrial areas of
the country. Public and private investment in Gwangju has been relatively
modest relative to the national average. In 1966, for instance, about
W 5,000 per capita was invested in Gwangju versus a national average of about
W 11,000 per capita. Table 2 shows the result of a more detailed analysis
1/   Rural households are larger than urban households which means that the
ratio between the per capita incomes was even less than 83%. On the
other hand, the average urban household income (for which data is not
available) is likely to be less than the wage and salary earner house-
hold income used in most analyses.
2/   Major Economic Indicators of the Korean Economy (1973-1981), op. cit.,
Table VI-I.
3/   UN sponsored International Review Panel (July 29 - August 8, 1974),
Background Information.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 10
of the savings/investment and capital flow situation for Grangju 1/ indicating
that in 1966 as much as 24% of the local savings may have been diverted to
other parts of Korea. Government investment priorities are changing as
reflected in current actions and plans.
Plans for Gwangju
7.        Present plans call for a reversal of the development pattern in
Gwangju. Substantial government investments are planned for the region
over the next few years, among them the development of the Gwangyang Bay
industrial complex. The UN is undertaking Phase II of a Regional Physical
Planning Study to assist the Government in preparing and implementing a
comprehensive regional development plan based on regional development
strategies formulated in the Phase I Study completed in 1972 and incorporated
in national plans. 2/
8.        The macro-economic features of the Government's plans for the
period 1972-81 are presented in Table 1 as Alternative 1. The plans aim at
a reversal of development trends in Gwangju but the rate of growth and
implied investments appear unrealistic in the near term (1972-76). Alter-
native II is hypothesized which assumes a more gradual change but retains
the long-term economic targets for Gwangju: by 1981, regional value added
per capita would be 80% of the national average compared to 65% in 1972;
employment in the primary sector would be 50% of total employment compared
to 35% for the nation; manufacturing employment would increase more rapidly
in the region than in the rest of Korea.
9.        Two aspects of the development pattern proposed for Gwangju are
particularly important.  First, a high rate of increase in labor productivity
in the primary sector is planned -- 7.5% to 9% annually, compared with a
national average of 5 to 6%. The agricultural conditions are such that a
rate of increase of this magnitude appears feasible, but a precondition is
that the necessary investments be made in water resources development for
irrigation purposes and that funds be made available for conversion of
farmland to more high-value crops and for the development of agro-industries
1/   Table 2 is based on Table 1 and a more detailed analysis of the varia-
tion of savings rates with per capita income levels. One important
assumption underlying Tables 1 and 2 is that the marginal capital/
output ratios for Gwangju would be equal to the national ratios.
2/   The following three Ministry of Construction publications present these
plans: National Land Development Plan 1972-1981, 1971; Basic Guidelines
for the Development of Kwangju Region, July, 1970; Guidelines for the
Development Planning of Yeosu and Suncheon Sub-Regions, December, 1972.
More specific economic projections have presently been prepared by the
UNDP/MOC Regional Development Economic Study Team: Gwangju Region -
Population, Employment, Output and Manufacturing Coefficients -- Past
Trend and Projections, November 1973, (shown as Alternative I in Table 1).



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 10
to further process the region's agricultural products. The conversion
of farmland to high-value crops may be unfeasible given present government
policy to achieve self-sufficiency in rice production.
10.       Second, a 20% annual rate of growth in manufacturing output is
planned up to 1981. This very high rate of growth is necessary to bring
the income level in the region closer to the national average. The
dispersion of manufacturing growth within the region to provide greater
supplemental off-farm employment opportunities for farm households is also
necessary to reduce the income disparities between urban and rural popula-
tions.
11.       In order for the region to reach the economic targets for 1981 a
substantial net inflow of capital would be required, as indicated in Table 2
summary. It is likely that as much as 40% of the required investment capital
would have to come from outside the region throughout the 1970's, a
percentage that would decline to about 25% by 1981. Little data is avail-
able to verify whether the present capital flows are even close to the
ones that would be required. However, there are indications that the net
inflow of capital may be substantial at the present. For instance, over
the last couple of years some W 30 billion have been invested in the Honam
Highway and between 1972-1977 about W 36 billion will be invested in the
Yong San Gang irrigation project, with most of the capital coming from outside
the region. Also, if present plans for petrochemical and related industries
in the Gwangyang Bay area are implemented, the net inflow of capital would
certainly exceed the ones required to achieve the proposed high rate of
manufacturing growth in the region.



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Economic and Demographic Profile of Korea and Gwangiu, /1 1960-1981
VALUE ADDED
Billion Won (1970 Prices)                            % of Total                              Annual Growth Rate  (%)
Primary       Second-   Terti-        Total       Primary   Second-   Terti-         Total      Primary   Second-   Terti-          Total
ary       ary                                 ary        ary                                  ary        ary
A. KOREA________               (1)          (2)        (3)         (4)             (5                  6 (7)      (8)          (9)       (1O)        (11)         (12)
A. KOREA
1960                     466.6 L9    136.8 /9   526.3        1,129.7 /9 41.3         12.1      46.6         100.0
6.2        12.3         6.7       7.2
1966                     667.9 /9   274.6 19   776.7         1,719.2  9 38.8         16.0      45.2         100.0
2.1        21.1        13.2      10.8
1970                     724.6 19   590.7 19 1,274.0    2,589.3 /9 28.0              22.8      49.2         100.0
.   s                                                ~~~    ~ ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~3.2  16.1  7.0  8.1
1972                     771  /11    796  I11  1,460 /1.1   3,027  11  25.5          26.3      48.2         100.0
4.7        16.6         7.5       9.5
1976                     928  /10 1,473  112 1 950 /10   4,351 110  21.3            33.9       44.8         100.0
X                                                    ~~~    ~ ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~4.7  16.4  9.1  11.0
1981                   1,167  1.1  3,145  /1t  3,019 112   7,331 /10  15.9          42.9       41.2         100.0
B.  GWANGJt  /1
1960                      85.2 /9       6.9 /9    35,5 /9   127.6 1  66.8             5.4      27.8         100.0
6.5        14.2         5.9       6.8
1966                     124.3 19      15.3 /9    50.0 12'   189.6 /5 65.5            8.1      26.4         100.0
.   .                                                               ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~-2.1  19.1  12.9  4.5
1970                     114.3 L9    30.8 /9       81,2 /9r   226.3 /9 50.5          13.6      35.9         100.0       -1           19,6    12             4.5
-1.4 /17    14.6 LI.7   6.8 LA17  3.9
1912                     111.1        40.5         92.6        244.2    45.5         16.6      37.9         100.0
Alt. I                                .
1972                                                                                                                      8.3        32.3        18.4      17.1
1976                     153 110     124 110      182 /10      459 10  33,3          27.0      39.7         100.0          .
4,5        13.7        lOW4       9.6
198l                     191 110     236 110      298 110      725 110  26.3        32.6       41.1         100.0
Alt. 11  /2
1972                                                                                                                     5.8         21.4        12.8      11.5                      4
19/6                     139          88          150          377       36.9        23.3      39.8         100.0         7,5        2.12
19817.5                                                                                                            22.4        13.2      13.8
1981                     200          242         2 79         721       27.7        33.6      38.7         100.0
I                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CD



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Economic and Demographic Profile of Korea and Gwangiu, /1 1960-1981
EMPLOYMENT
Persons (000)                                  %.of Total                            Annual Growth Rate  (.)
Primary   Second-   Terti-         Total       Primary   Second-   Terti-   Total    Primary   Second-   Terti-   Total
ary        ary                                ary         ary                             ary         ary
(13)      (14)       (15)         (16)       (17)        (18)       (19)      (20)        (21)       (22)       (23)      (24)
A. KOREA
4,620 /6       31-L6a 1,885         7,036 L6   65.7         7.5        26.8      100.0                                                           1960
5,013 /6      940 /6. 2,706         8,659 /    57.9        10.9        31.2      100.0      1.4        10.0        6.2       3.51966
4,834 IS   1,369 18 3,371 18    9,574 /8   50.5            14.3        35.2      100.0    _0.9          9.9        5.7       2.5                 1970
5,078 .13  1,423/13.3,525 /        10,026 /13  50.6        14.2        35.2      100.0      2.5         2.0        2.3       2.31972
4,892 18   2,119 IS 4,293 t8    11,304 IS   43.3           18.7        38.0      100.0     -0.9        10.5        5.1.    3.0                    1976
-0.9        7.8         5.4      3.4
4,674 /8   3,088 /8 5,593 IS   13,355 A    35.0            23.1        41.9      100.0                                                            1981
B,   Gwangiu   L
1,023 /6       45 /6    179         1,247 /6   82.0         3.6        14.4      100.0                                                            1960
986 L6      107 /    247          1,340 /6   73.6         8.0       18.4       100.0      0.2      - 0.7         2.8      0         3          1966
977 18      104 /B   276 18       1,357 78   72.0         7.7       20.3       100.0                                                           1970
970         104       274         1,348        72.0 /19  7.7 L19  20.3 /19 100.0    -0.4              0.0       -0.4    -0.3                   1972
Alt. I   L2
-0.7       13.4       10.8       3.2                  1972
945         15672 1    413 /      1,530 /8   61.8        11.2       27.0       100.0                                                            1976
875 01      293        621 569    1,789        48.9      16.4        34.7      100.0                                                            1981
Alt, i,  Li_
0%
-3.1       10.6         8.2      0.6                  1972                             h
858         156       375         1,389        61.8      11.2       27.0       100.0                                                            1976
-1.4       11.5         8.7      3.4
801         269        569        1.639        48.9      16.4        34.7      100.0                                                            1981



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Economic and Demographic Profile of Korea and Gwangiu, /1 1960-1981
VALUE ADDED PER E14PT,OYEE
Population
Thousand Won (1970 Prices)                   Annual Growth Rate  (.)
Number of         Labor          Persons    Annual
Unemployed       Force            (000)      Growth
Primary   Second-   Terti-    Total    Primary   Second-   Terti-            Total      Persons                                        Rate
ary        ary                             ary        ary                    (000)           (000)                        (%)
(25)       (26_    (27)          2         ()         (  _                  (32)         (33)            (34)            (35)      (36)
1960                    101        258       279        161                                                     N.A.            N.A.            24,989L23
1966                    133        292       287        199                    2.1       0.5        3.6         666_5          9,325/5          29,160 /3
1970                    ISO        431       378        270        3.j        10.2       7.1        7.9         446/5         10,02OL5         31,435/13    1.9
1972                    152        559       414        302        0.7        13.9       4.7        5.8         474/13        10,500123         32,359/13
1976                    190        695       454        385        5.7         5.6       2.3        6.3         457/7         11,761/7         34,34517    1-5
1981                    250      1,018       540        549        5.6         7                                408/7         13,76317         36,709/7
B.   GWANGJUL -/I
1960                     83        153       198        102                                                      N.A.          N.A.              3,489 L     2
1966                    126        143       202        141        7.2        -1.1       0.3        5.5           54/5        1,392L5            4,0523    2.5
-I 9   19.9  9.8   4.3                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0.3
1970                    117        296       294        167       -1.9        19.9       9.8                      18/5        1,375/5            4,006/31    0/18
-0.9        14.6       7.2        4.1                                                     -0.3 1
1972                    115        389       338        181                                                       18          1,366              3,982
Alt. I      /2
1972
1972                                            ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~8.9  16.7  6.9      13.5                                                      1.3
1976                    162        721       441        300        816/7                                                      1,546L7            4,193t4
6.1         2.2       1.7        6.2           21/7        1,810/7           4.637/4
1981                    218        805       480        405                                                       912         1801                ,31
Alt. II   /2                                              .
1972                                                                                                                                                                        (
9.0         9.8       4.2       10.6                                                      1.5               _j
3976                    162        565       399        271                                                       56          1,445              4,226                         O
I  9.0          9.8       4.2       10.2                                                      1.3    
3981                    250        90C       490        j40                                                       51           1,690             4,508



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Economic  and Demographic  Profile  of Korea  and  Gwangiu,  /1   1960-1981
Value            Marginal Capital/                       Gross Investment 116
Added            Output Ratios (Gross,
Labor                        Per               one-year lag) /15
Force        Un-               apita                                                   Billion       % of
Partici-     employ-   Thousand  Annual   Primary  Second-  Terti-   Total               Won        Value
pation       ment          Won      Growth                 ary      ary                (1970        Added
Rate         Rate         (1970    Rate                                                 Prices)
(%)         (%)         Prices)    (%)
(37)        (38           (39)      (40)       (41)      (42)      (43)     (44)      (45)          (46)
A.  KOREA
N.A.         N.A.          45                                                            N.A.       N.A.                               1960
4.6       N.A.      N.A.    N.A.        N.A.
32.0         7.1           59                                                             318/14   18.5                                1966
8.6       1.50      1.12    2.70        2.05
31.9         4.5           82        8                                                    705L.14   27.2                               1970
32.4         4.5           94        7.        2.61       1.96    4.70       3.18         666/12   22.0o12                             1972
34.2         3.9          127        7.8       2.65       1.57    3.82       2.53       1,177/12   27.0/12                             1976
37.5         3.0          200        9.5       3.31       1.77    3.89       2.66       2,328/12   31.8/12                             1981
B.   GvanN.A  3A
N.A.         N.A.          37                                                            N.A.       N.A.                                1960
4.1       N.A.      N.A.    N.A.        N.A.
34.4         3.9           47                                                               19       10.0                               1966
4.5       1.50      1.12    2.70         -
34.3         1.3           56                                                              38       16.5                                1970
4.4       2.61      1.96    4.70         -
34.3L2&      1.3/18        61                                                              -          -                                 1972
102       44.6                               1972
15.6      2.65      1.57    3.82        -
36.9         1.0          109                                                             127       27.7                                1976
7.4      3.31      1.77    3.89       -
39.0         1.2          156                                                             208       28.9                                1981
Alt. II   L2 i           
76       31.1                               1972                 o                  0
9.9      2.65      1.57     3.82       -
34.2         3.9           89                                                             146        38.7                                1976                                  K
12.4      3.31      1.77    3.89 .  1
37.5         3.0          160                                                  .290                  40.2                                t98t



KOREA
SECONDARY CrTrES RECIO!JAT PROjECT
Economic and DemoRraphic Profile of Korea and Gwanglu. /1  1960 - 1981
(Footrnotes)
N.A.: Not Available
Primarv sector  : Agriculture, forestry, and fisheries
Secondary sector: Mining and manufacturing
Tertiary sector:: Other industries
The estimates have been derived from data provided elsewhere in the table when no source is indicated.
/1 Only Cwangiu province, Cwang,u region also includes two guns in Jeonra Bug Do Province (Namwon and Sunchane). with about 77 of the regions population.
/2  Alrernative I:  The 1976 and 1981 targets are equal to those presented by the UNDPJMOC Regional Econoelc Studv Team in November. 1973 (see notes 3/ - 10/).  These targets
imply chat value added per capita in Cwangiu would be 2271 less than the national average in 1981. as compared to 35% less in 1972.
Alternative 11: Thie discrepancy between Ewangiu and Korea in value added per capita would be reduiced from 35% in 1972 to 207. in 1981, with the growth path for the region's
economv simiilar to the national one.  The regional population growth rates, labor force participation rates and unemployment rates for 1976 and 1981 have been set equal to the
projected national rates.  It has also been ass.umed that the regional labor productivity in the primary sector will be equal to the national average in 1981, that labor pro-
ductivity in the secondary and tertiary sectors will be about 90T/ of the national average in the same year, and Nihat the sectoral distribution of employment will be the same as the
one projected in Alternative I by 1981.
/3 )
4  I  Gwangiu Region -- Population, Employment, Output, and Manufacturing Coefficients -- Past Trend and Proiections, (Data Series 1), Regional Development Economic Study Team,
'5 ) LNDP/MOC, November, 1973;
L   )  3/:  Table 1-1-1;  4/:  Table 1-2-2;  5/:  Table 2-1-1;  6/:  Table 2-1-4;  7/:  Table 2-2-1;  8/:  Table 2-2-2;  9/:  Table 3-1;   10/:  Table 3-2.
/7 )
78 )
/9 
/10 )
/11    Mlor Econoinis  Indicators of the Korean Economy (1972-1981), EPB, ROK, June, 1973;
/12 )  1'/:  Table 1-2;  12/:  Table 1-6;  13/:  Table II-1
/13)
/14    Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Republic of Korea. IBRD, February 20, 1974; Vol. II, Table 2.7.
/15    Korea: Prior estimates were derived from:  (1966-1970 ane 1970-1972)   Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Republic of Korea, op. cit., Vol. I, p. 45 and
(19?2-1976 anid 1976-1981) Malor Economic Indicators of the Korean Economy, op. cit., Tables 1-2 and I-6. The priors were then adjusted to achieve consistency
between Columas (1) - (3) (growth in output) and Column (4S) (gross investment)
Cwangju: The national ratios have been used, resulting in the estimates of gross investment shown in Column (45).
/16    The estinates for Cwangju are derived from the capital/ouitput ratios in Columtis (41) - (43) and the value added estimates in Columns (1) - (3).  In estimating
the percentages for Gwangju in Column (46) it has been assumed, for the sake of simplicity, that there are no interregional flows of capital.
/17     Estimates for 1970-72 have been made by assuming that the ratio between the 1970-72 and 1966-70 growth rates are the same for Gwangju as for Korea as a whole.
/18    The same population growth rate has been assumed for 1970-72 as for 1966-70, and the san,e labor force participation and unemployment rates have been assumed for                                m p    P
1972 as for 1970.                                                                                                                                                                            0  i- (D >C
192   The same sectoral distribution of employment has been assumed for 1972 as foe 1970.0 
rt 0



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Investment. Savings and Net Capital Flow 1966-1981 for Gwangiu Li
Net Capital Flow to Gwangju
Local Investment,
Actual:  1966, 1970                                                                    % of Total Savings
Required:  1972,                                                                       in Gwangju (1966)
1976, 1981 (Alt. II)                  Local Savings                                    and rest of Korea           % of Required
W Billion              % of Value Added /2        W Billion         W Billion    (1972-81)                   Investment Capital
(1)                        (2)                    (3)        _    (4)                  (5)                       (6)
1966                   19                          13                    25               -6               24.0                          -
1970                   38                          17                    38                0                 0                           -
1972                   76                          19                    46                30               4.8                          40
1976                  146                          24                    90                56               5.1                          38
1981                  290                          30                   216                74               3.5                          25
Li    Based on Table 1, with Development Alternative II for Gwangju.
/2    Based on an analysis of actual and projected national savings rates at the corresponding per capita income levels.                
(D
0



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Regional Planning: National Land Development Plan 1972-81
1.        The National Land Development Plan (1972-81) was formulated by
the Ministry of Construction to guide the efficient use and management of
national land. Eight planning regions were designated - Seoul, Taebeg,
Daejeoun, Daegu, Jeongju, Busan, Gwangju and Jeju - and the UNDP was asked
to assist in analyzing the development potential of the regions in a Regional
Physical Planning Study. The UNDP-financed Study was carried out by the
consultants OTAM-METRA. Phase I of the Study analyzed the existing dis-
tribution of human, economic and natural resources of the respective regions
in terms of their potentialities and constraints. It further analyzed
alternative physical planning schemes, proposing decentralization through
the development of selected large regional metropolises and offering broad
regional and urban planning guidelines. The Study's recommendations were
incorporated in the National Land Development Plan, preparation of which
was completed in June 1971.
2.        The National Land Development Plan classified national land
both by region and by land use. It established as basic objectives
efficient land use and development, natural protection and conservation
and amelioration of the living environment, and within this context set
forth policies for the location of investments in transportation, communica-
tions, urban infrastructure, water resource development and agriculture and
forestry. The Plan stressed the importance of achieving balanced develop-
ment throughout the nation through the decentralization of population and
dispersion of industries from metropolitan areas, the fostering of small
and medium size local cities, and the systematic improvement and expansion
of major social overhead capital facilities. Wlile detailed investment plans
were not constructed for each of the eight planning regions, basic guide-
lines for the development of the regions and for the preparation of sup-
plemental regional plans were established. A brief statement of these guide-
lines for Gwangju region follows.
Gwang,ju Region Planning Guidelines
3.        The planning guidelines for the development of Gwangju region
between 1972 and 1981 were in five areas: land use, transportation and com-
munication, city development and amelioration of living environment, industrial
location, and national land conservation and water resources development. In
each of the areas the present status was elaborated, and broad direction for



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
development stated. The basic planning direction was to establish Gwangju
City (Naju and Mogpo as satellite cities) as a major development pole and
Suncheon-Yeosu areas as a secondary development pole. Functionally, Gwangju
City was to develop as a regional metropolis; MIogpo as a coastal industrial
city and as the main base of the region for the development of isolated
islands; Yeosu as a heavy chemical industrial city and an oil supply center
to the southwest and other parts of the country; and, Suncheon as a tran-
sportation junction between Yeosu, Busan and Gwangju. The region was to
have a dual function in agricultural and industrial production.
4.        Transportation improvements were to be made in both the road
network and port facilities.  Road developments included construction of
the Honam and South Coastal highways which would link the region to Seoul,
Busan, and Daeju regions, and construction and improvements in interior
and coastal secondary roads necessary to expanded marketing of fishery and
agricultural products and promotion of industrial developments. Specific
highway links were named. Port improvements were to be made at Yeosu and
Mogpo to increase their cargo carrying capacities. It was expected that
the ports would be handling about seven million tons of seagoing cargo
in 1981 (compared to 931,475 tons in 1968) - an increase due in large part
to industrial developments in Yeosu-Suncheon, 'iogpo and Gwangju. Fishing
ports were also to be developed.
5.        Major emphasis was given in the guidelines for the region to the
development of an industrial belt along the southeast coast. Heavy and
chemical industries (oil refining, petrochemical, fertilizer, metals,
machines, munitions) were to be developed in Yeosu and Suncheon areas. Urban
oriented industries, such as machinery, processed foodstuffs and textiles,
were to be developed in Gwangju and Naju areas. Plate glass, fishery pro-
cessing, plywood, and textiles were to be developed in the Mogpo area.
6.        The guidelines for city development were based on the functional
assignment of the cities and an increase in urban population from 948,000 in
1960 to 2,648,000 in 1981. The need to upgrade and expand the supply of
housing, and water supply and sewerage systems was established, and green-
belt developments recommended to establish open recreational areas. Other
guidelines were issued to ensure national land conservation including a
broad river improvement plan, and an erosion control plan. Consideration
was also given to water use plans for municipal water, agricultural water
and industrial water. Less emphasis was attributed to these areas, however,
than to the development of industry and transport in the region.
7.        The guidelines for development of Gwanglu set forth in the National
Land Development Plan are being formulated into a comprehensive detailed
investment program under Phase II of the UNDP Regional Physical Planning
Study. The 18-month Study is being carried out by Robert Nathan and Asso-
ciates, and is scheduled for completion in September 1975. The Gwangju regional
development program is the first of the regional programs to be prepared.



AN1X 3
Page 1 of 10
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF TII SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate Tables
Total Project Cost Summary Table
Contingency Allowances
Housing Sites and Services Subproject
City Market Subproject
Fishery Harbor Complex Subproject
Access Roads Subproject



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Total Proiect Cost Summary Table
(In US$000
--------------------------In  W  Milo    -------------1----------------------                                                  Equivalent)   /2
Civil                  Professional      Contingencies    Contingencies    Land                        Pro;ect Coat                        Project Cost
Code     Suboroject Items and Components            Works      Equipment    Services          Physical          Price            Acquisition /1      Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign     Total
1.      Housing Sites and Services
1.01  Yeosa                               375.94          -            31.96             59.77            121.87          107.94            399.91      297.57    697.48        999.77      743.93   1,743.70
1.02  Mogpo                               474.36          -            40.32             75.42            153.77           55.76            411.20       388.43    799.63    1,028.00       971.08   1,999.08
1.03  Gwangju                             446.64          -            37.97             71_02            144.78          220,65            558.88      362.18    921.06   1397.20         905.45   2.302.65
Subtotal                  1.296.94         -            110.25           206.21             420.42          384.35          1,369.99    1.048.18  2,418.17    3.424.97    2.620.46   6.045.43
2.      Suncheon City Market                      279.85          -            25.19             44.49             121.44           23.28           263.13       231.12    494.25       657.83       577.80   1,235.63
3.      Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex            2,490.55        440.00        327.24            470.35           1,002.50          130.17         2,386.47    2,474.34  4,860.81    5,966.18    6,185.84  12,152.02
4.      Access Roads
4.01  Yeosu                               387.99          -            34.92             61.69             155.82         179.89            534.94       285.37    820.31    1,337.35       713.43   2,050.78
4.02  Mogpo                               416.96          -            37.53             66.29            131.17           54.48            367.09       339.34    706.43       917.72      848.35   1,766.07
Subtotal                    804.95         -             72.45           127.98             286.99          234.37            902.03      624.71  1.526.74    2.255.07    1.561.78   3I,81     5
5.      Technical Assistance
5.01  Advisory Assistance and                -            -           196.80                                  -              -               34.80       162.00    196.80        87.00      405.00      492.00
Regional Planning Studies
5.02  Fisbery Complex Management             -            -           168.00               -                  -              -               74.80        93.20    168.00       187.00      233.00      420.00
----   Assistance
5.03  Action Program                         -            -           134.40               -                  -              -               57.60        76.80    134.40       144.00      192.00      336.00
5.04  Feasibility Studies and                -            _           200.80                                  -              -              110.80        90.00    200.80      277.00       225,00      502.00
Preparation of Selected
Projeets
Subtotal                       -           -            700.00              -                  -               -             278.00       422.00    700.00       695.00    1.055.00   1.750.00
Grand Total        d      4729            4 _  0      1.23513             849.03             37                                   J2 99997   12.999.05   12.000.88  24.999.93
/I      Not to be financed by the loan.
/2      W 400 - US$1.00.                                                                                                                                                                                                      0



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Contingency Allowances
(In US$ Millions)
Land Acguisition       Civil Works          Equipment      Professional Services
Local    Foreign     Local   Foreign     Local   Foreign      Local   Foreign        Total
Allowances for Physical
Increase  (d)                                            15%                 15%
Allowances for Price Increase *
Total Project Cost before
Contingencies       1.93       -          5.98     6.20       0.24      o.86       1.60     1.49         18.30
Allowances for Physical
Increase (US$ Millions)                             0.98     0.96        0.04     0.14                              2.12
Sub-total          1.93       -          6.96     7.16       0.28      1.00       1.60    149          20.42
Allowances for Price Increase
(US$ Millions)                           2.15     2.0,8      0.08     0.27                               4.58
Total, including Contingencies    1.93        -         9.11     9.24        0.36     1.27       1.60      1.49        25.00
* Compounded annually on base construction costs, inclusive of physical contingencies, as follows:
1974          1975          1976-80
(a)  Civil Works  =   18%           15%             12% p.a.
(b) Equipment    =   14%            11%           7.5% p.a.
0



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 10
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Subproiect Cost Estimates
1. Housing Sites and Services Subproject
--------------  Costs in W Million  -----------------------------------
City        Code                  Project Component                                                                                                                Breakdown of Costs
Off-Site                On-Site                Local            Foreign           Total
YEOSU       1.01  - Housing Sites and Services - (First Stage)
(Gukdong Area)
1.01.1 - Land Acquisition 31,077 pyong & compensation /1                               1.98                 105.96                107.94               -             107.94
1.01.2 - Sites and Services:
(a)  Site Preparation (on-site only)                                          -                    81.07                 48.64              32.43           81.07
(b)  Roads                                                                 55.99                   52.03                 45.29              62.73          108.02
(c)  Water Supply                                                          34.10                   16.34                 21.16              29.28           50.44
(d)  Drainage                                                              47.96                   37.95                 44.59              41.32           85.91
(e)  Electricity                                                           29.70                   19.66                 11.23              38.13           49.36
(f)  Green Area                                                               -                     1,14                  0.63               0.51            1.14
Subtotal of Civil Works                         167.75                 208.19                 171.54             204.40         375.94
1.01.3 - Professional Services:
(a)  Preparation, Surveys, Detailed Engineering, etc.                         -                      -                    9.40                -              9.40
(b)  Project Engineering Supervision                                          -                      -                   22.56                -             22.56
Subtotal                                                                                       3196                              31.96
Subtotal before Contingencies                      -                       -                  203.50            204.40          407.90
(Excluding Land Cost)
Contingencies
(1)  Physical 15%                                                                       -                      -                   29.11              30.66           59.77
(2)  Price Escalation:
(Compounded annually on base construction costs & physical
as follows:  1974 = 18%; 1975 = 15%; and 1976-80 - 12Z p.a.)                                                                5936               62.51         121.87
Subtotal                                           -                       -                   88.47              93.17         181.64
Total Excluding Land Cost                           -                      -                  291.97             297.57         589.54
Total Including Land Cost                           -                      -                  399.91             297.57         697.48
/1   Not financed out of the loan.  Area indicated is total project development area for first stage.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 10
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Subproject Cost Estimates
1. Housing Sites and Services Subprolect (Continued)
--------------------  Costs in W Million -------------- --________________
City      Code                  Project Component                                                                                                           Breakdown of Costs
Qff-Site               Qn-Site                Local           Foreign           Total
MOGPO     1.02  - Housing Sites and Services - (First Stage)
(Dongmyeongdong Area)
1.02.1 - Land Acquisition - 39,110 pyong /1-                                                             55.76                 55.76              -             55.76
1.02.2 - Sites and Services:
(a) Site Preparation                                                      -                   110.99                 66.59            44.40           110.99
(b) Roads                                                               93.76                  69.32                 64.34            98.74          163.08
(c) Water Supply                                                        30.03                  25.50                 21.92            33.61           55.53
(d) Drainage                                                            36.74                  42.00                 38.84            39.90           78.74
(e) Electricity                                                         30.96                  29.18                 12.62            47.52            60.14
(f) Green Area                                                            -                     0.98                  0.54             0.44             0.98
Subtotal                                         191.49                 277.97                204.85           264.61          469.46
1.02.3 - Community Facilities:
Small Health Clinic                                                        -                    4.90                  2.70              2.20            4.90
Subtotal of Civil Works                          191.49                 282.87                207.55           266.81          474.36
1.02.4 - Professional Services:
(a) Preparation, Surveys, Detailed Engineering, etc.                       -                     -                   11.86               -             11.86
(b) Project Engineering Supervision                                        -                     -                   28.46               -             28.46
Subtotal                                            -                      -                   40.32              -             40.32
Subtotal before Contingencies                       -                      -                  247.87           266.81          514.68
(Excluding Land Cost)
Contingencies
(1) Phjsical 15%                                                                   -                      -                   35.40            40.02            75.42
(2) Price Escalation:
(Compounded annually on base construction costs & physical
as follows:  1974 = 18%; 1975 = 15%; and 1976-80 = 12%. p.a.)                 -                      -                   72.17            81.60          153.77
Subtotal                                            -                      -                  107.57           121.62          229.19
Total Excluding Land Cost                           -                      -                  355.44           388.43           743.87
Total Including Land Cost                           -                      -                  411.20           388.43           799.63
/1   Not financed out of the loan.  Area indicated is total project development area in first stage.



KOREA
SECONOARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Sub-Proiect Cost Estinates
1. Housing Sites and Services Sub-Project (Continued)
--------------------- Costs in W Million    -------------___-________-_________
City      Code               Project Co.ponent                                                                                                                                        Breakdown of Costs
Off-Site              On-Site               Local          Foreign           Total
GWANGTJ     1.03       H Mousing Sites and Services - (First Stage) -
(Weolsandong Area)
1.03.1  - Land Acquisition 41,808 Pyong & Cospeneation LI                                                    -                  220.65                220.65             -             220.65
1.03.2 - Sites and Services:
(a)  Stream Side Ioprovement                                                                   68.97                   -                    24.99          43.98             68.97
(b)  Site Preparation                                                                             _                   25.79                 15.47          10.32             25.79
(c)  Soads                                                                                    125.64                  56.65                 84.54          97.75            182.29
(d) Water Supply                                                                               30.30                  22.91                 24.66          28.55             53.21
(e)  Drainage                                                                                     _                   54.65                 31.76          22.89             54.65
(f)  Electricity                                                                               29.72                  30.72                 15.73          44.71             60.44
(g)  Green Area                                                                                                        1.29                  0.71           0.58              1.29
Sub-total of Civil Works                                             254.63                 192.01               197.86          248.78           446 64
1.03.3  - Professional Services:
(a)  Preparation, Surveys, Detailed Engineering, etc.                                             -                                         11.17            _               11.17
(b)  Project Engineering Supervision                                                              _                                         26.80            -               26.80
Sub-total                                                                                                         37.97                            37.97
Sub-total before Contingencies
(excluding land cost)                                                 -                     -                  235.83         248.78            484.61
Contingencies
(I)  Physical 15%                                                                                            -                    -                    33.70          37.32             71.02
(2) Price Escalation:
(Compounded annually on base costs and physical as follows!
1974 - 187.; 1975 = 15%; 1976-80 - 12%, p.s.)                                                          -                    -                    68.70          76.08            144.78
Sub-total                                                                                     -                  102.40          113.40           215.80
Total Ecluding Land Cost                                                                      -                  338.23          362.18           700.41
Total Including Land Cost                                                                     -                  558.88          362.18           921.06
/1 Not financed out of the loan. Area indicated is total project develop=ent area for first stage.
sIP
0p-



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Cost Estimates
2. City Market Subpro1ect
------------------------ Costs in W Million ---------------------__
Breakdown of Costs
City       Code                       Subproject                                                              Off-Site        On-Site             Local          Foreign           Total
SUNCHEON     2                           City Market
2.1  -  Land Acquisition - 10,028.7 Py and Compensation  A                                           1.29           21.99              23.28             -             23.28
2.2  -  Civil Works - Infrastructure:
(a)  Site Preparation - Earthworks                                                           -             11.83               6.51            5.32            11.83
(b)  Concrete Paving                                                                         -             39.32              23.59           15.73            39.32
(c)  Roads                                                                                  5.25             -                 2.36            2.89             5.25
(d)  Water Supply                                                                           1.70            1.00               1.21            1.49             2.70
(e)  Drainage                                                                               1.18            7.22               3.78            4.62             8.40
(f)  Electricity                                                                            6.01           10.70               4.18           12.53            16.71
Sub-total                                                        14.14           70.07              41.63           42.58            84.21
2.3  -  Civil Works - Buildings:
(a)  Market Buildings (3 units for a total floor space of 1,255.4 Py)                        -            165.71              74.57           91,14           165.71
(b)  Open Shelter for Fresh Produce Stalls (1 unit of 498.9 py)                              _             29.93              14.97           14.96            29.93
Sub-total                                                          -            195.64              89.54          106.10           195.64
Sub-total of Civil Works                                         14.14          265.71             131.17          148.68           279.85
2.4 - Professional Services:
(a)  Preparation, Surveys, Detailed Engineering, etc.                                        -               -                 8.40             -               8.40
(b)  Project Engineering Supervision                                                         -               -                16.79             _              16.79
Sub-total                                                          -               -                25.19             -              25.19
Direct Cost before Contingencies (excluding land cost)                                                -               -               156.36          148.68           305.04
Contingencies:
(1)  Physical 15%                                                                                     -               -                22.19           22.30            44.49
(2)  Price Escalation (Ccopounded annually on base construction costs
and physical as follows:  1974 = 18%;  1975 = 15%;  and
1976-80 = 12% p.a.)                                                                              -               -                61.30           60.14           121.44
Sub-total                                                          -               -                83.49           82.44           165.93
Project Cost with Contingencies (excluding land cost)                                                 -               -               239.85          231.12           470.97
Project Cost with Contingencies (including land cost)                                                 -               -               263.13          231.12           494.25
L   Not financed out of the loan.                                                                                                                                                        1
0



KOneA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONA.L ROJECT
Cost Eetinote.
3, Fishery Harbor Complex SAbprolect
----- Costs in W millino       ---------
City          Code              Project Cow-onot                                                                                                                         Brekdown of Cost
Local             Foreign             Total
YEOSU            3.          Fishery Harbor Compl x (First Stage)
3.01   -    Land Acquisition (65,130 Py) and compensation L                                                                                  130.17                -                130.17
3.02   -    Fishery Industrial Zono Dvelopmezt (37.860 Py)
(a)  Roads                                                                                                                        29.46              36.00              65.46
(b)  Water Supply                                                                                                                  1.13               1.39               2.52
(c)  Draidnge                                                                                                                     6.61                8.08              14.69
(d)  Electricity                                                                                                                  0.96                2.90               3.86
Sub-total                                                                                          38.16              48.37               86.53
3.03        F Fishery Harbor Zone Develooment
Civil Works
(a)  Earthworks and dredging                                                                                                     154.43             126.35             280.78
(b)  Roadvays, bridges ad paved areas                                                                                            72.91               66.37             139.28
(c)  Quays (820 a), jetties (240 e), revetment (275 i)  fenders and bollards                                                    770.32              581.12           1,151.44
(d)  Fish auction market, chill mom, display hall, fish brokers' offices, etc. (1,552 Py)                                       122.77              150.05             272.82
(a)  Ice plant and ice storage (254 Py)                                                                                          25.15               30.73              55.88
(f)  Freezing and frosen storage (414 Py)                                                                                        32.37               39.57              71.94
(g)  Fuel supply facilities, including relocation                                                                                 12.00              18.00              30.00
(h)  Public utility services (water, drainage and electricity)                                                                   44.94              101.26             146.20
(i)  Office buildings (port office, fishery cooperative, etc.) (348 Py)                                                           25.05              30.63              55.68
Euipmet:
(j)  Machinery and equipment for Ice Plant, frozen storage, etc.                                                                 71.34              285,37             35671
(k)  Port operational plant end equipment                                                                                         15.01              35.02              50.03
(1)  Port maintenance plant and equipment                                                                                          7.53              17.51              25.04
( P) Fort navigetional aide and beacons                                                                                           4.11                4.11               8.22
Sub-total                                                                                       1,357.93           1,486.09           2,844.02
3.04        C Consulting Engineering Services
(a)  Site investigations, surveys, design preparation and detailed engineering to contract award stage                           48.84               73.26             122.10
(b)  Construction supervision                                                                                                   103.41              101.73             205.14
Sub-total                                                                                         152.25             174.99              327.24
Contingencies
(I)  Physical 15%                                                                                                                            224.92              245.43             470 35
(2)  Price Escalation (compounded annually on base construction costs and physical as follows:)
1974     1975      1976-80
(a)  Civil Works  -    18%       15%      127 p.a.
(b)  Equipment    .    147.      11%    7.5% p.a.                                                                                       483.04              519.46           1,002.50
Sub-total                                                                                         707.96              764.89           1,472.85
Total Excluding Land Cost                                                                       2.256.30           2,474.34            4,730.64
Total Including Land Cost                                                                       2,386.47           2,474.34            4,860 81
L Not financed out of the loan.
Ie:



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 10
KOREA
SECONDAty CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Cost Estimates
4.  Access Roads S.bprboect
'ity                                                                                                      '..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ots in
City        Code                                        Project Component                                                  ________-_______W Millions-
Local                Foreign                Total
YEOSU       4        -                      Access Roads
4.01    -    Access Roado in Yeosu
4.oi.1  -    SeogYodong.Orimdong Access Road (1.72 km)
C1)  Right-of-Way Land Acquis4tion (9,656 py) asd Compensation L                                61.32                   -                    61.32
(2)  Civil Works:
(a)  Earthsorko (rlearing, excavation, filling, compaction, handling
hauling, and seeding)                                                                  6.34                 9.51                   15.85
(b)  Pavement (7 m) (sub-bose = 30 cm; prime coat, black base = 10 cm;
tack coat, wearing surface = ASCON 5 ca)                                             12.37                15.07                   27.44
(c)  Drainage and slope protection                                                         11.98                 3.00                   14.98
(d)  Cu-vert pipes (60 cm   = 66 m, 80 m       1,306  , 100 cm =  45sm
pipeheads and attendant catch pits)                                                  10.62                 5.72                   16.34
(e)  Concrete block sidewalks                                                               2.85                 5.30                    8.15
(f)  Bridges (3 Nos.)                                                                      89.49                89.49                  178.98
Subtotal for 4.01.1 (excluding land cost)                                 133.65               128.09                  261.74
4.01.2  -    Fishery Conplen Access Road (1.76 kso)
(l)  Right-of_Way land Acquisition (3,730 py) and Compensation Costs A                         118.57                   -                   118.57
(2)  Civil Works:                                                                              ___
(a) Earthworks (clearing excavation, filli2g, compaction, handling
hauling, and seeding'                                                                  5.91                  8.3",                 14.78
(b)  Pavement (7 o) (sub-base = 30 cm; prime coat, black bane = 10 on
tack coat, wearing surface = ASCON 5 cm)                                             13.33                16.28                   29.61
(c)  Drainage and slope protection                                                          9.82                 2.46                   12.28
(d)  Culverts and drainage pipes                                                           30.94                i6.66                   47.40
(e)  Concrete block sidewalks                                                               7.69                14i29                   21.98
Subtotal for 4.01.2 (excluding land cost)                                  67.69                 58.56                 126.25
Cost of Civil Works (eccudiog land cost)                                  201.34                186.65                 387.99
Cost of Land Acquisition and Compensation for Rights-sf-Way               179.89                   -                   179.89
4.01.3  -    Profe:sional Services:
(a)  Preparation, surveys, detailed engineering, etc.                                           11.64                   -                    11. 6
(b)  Project engineering supervision                                                            23.28                                        23.28
Subtotal                                                                   34.92                   -                    34.92
Subtotal before contingencies (excluding lapd costs)                      236.26                186.65                 422.91
Contingencie-
(1)  Physicas  15%                                                                                                         33.69                 28.00                  60.69
(2) Price Escalation (comapounded annually on base construction costs asd physical as follows:
1974 = 18%; 1975 = 15%; 1976-80 = 12% p.a.)                                                                          85.10                70.72                  155.82
Subtotal                                                                  118.79                98.72                  217.51
Total (Excluding Land Costs)                                              355.05                285.37                 640.42
Total (Including Land Costs)                                              534.94                285.37                 820.31
/     R Not financed out of the loan.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES PEGIONAL PROJECT
Cost Estimates
4. Access Roads Subproject (Continued)
City     Code                  Project Component                                                                 -          Costs in --------
Won Millions
Local     Foreign      Total
MOGPO    4.02           Access Roads (3.126 kn)
4.02.1  -    Right-of-Wfay Land Acquisition (9,119 Py) and Compensation
for houses (16 houses) j                                                                 54.48        -         54.48
4.02.2  -    Civil Works:
(a)  Earthworks (excavation, filling, compaction, handling,
hauling and seeding)                                                               62.63       93.94      156.57
(b)  Pavement (first stage width = 7 I)
Sub-base = 30 cm; prime coat, black base = 10 cm;
tack coat, wearing surface = ASCON 5 cm)                                           25.05       30.61       55.66
(c)  Drainage and slope protection -
(1)  crest, toe and side ditches (2,197 m)                                          1.03        0.26        1.29
(2)  concrete block slope protection                                                0.44        0.10        0.54
(d)  Culverts -
(1)  R.C. drainage pipes (60, 80 and 100 cm
and attendant works                                                            2.14        1.15        3.29
(2)  Box culverts and attendant works                                              10.79        5.82       16.61
(e)  Bridges (2 No.)                                                                    35.64       35.64       71.28
(f)  Treatment of weak layers with gravel and sand                                      44.69       67.03      111.72
Sub-total of Civil Works                               182.41      234.55      416.96
4.o2.3  _    Professional Services:
(a)  Preparation, surveys, detailed engineering, etc.                                   12.51          -        12.51
(b)  Project engineering supervision                                                    25.02          -        25.02
Sub-total                                               37.53          -        37.53
Sub-total before contingencies
(excluding land costs)                                 219.94      234.55      454.49
Contineencie s
(1)  Physical 15%                                                                                      31.11      35.18       66.29
(2)  Price Escalation (Compounded                                                                     61.56       69.61      131.17
annually on base construction           Sub-total                                                92.67      104.79       9
costs and physical as follows:
1974 = 18%;  1975 = 15%;                Total Excluding Land Costs                              312.61      339.34      651.95
1976-80 = 12% p.a.
Total Including Land Costs                              367.09     339.34      706.43
/ Not financed out of the loan.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
The Housing Sector
Housing Needs
1.        In the Long Term Perspective Plan (1973-81) the Economic Planning
Board identifies a shortage in housing of 1.2 million units based on the
number of households sharing housing units.2/   The Government plans to re-
duce the housing shortage of 0.7 million units by 1981, although the long-
term capital outlay projected for housing is too limited for the housing
program targets:
Table 1
Indicators for Housing Supply Program
1970      1976       1981
Population (000's)                             31,317    34,345    36,709
Rate of Population increase                     1.8%      1.5%       1.3%
No. of members of household /a                  5.42      5.41       5.21
No. of Households (000's)                       5,774     6,349      7,047
No. of Housing Units (000's)                    4,493     4,993      6,265
No. of Housing Units constructed (000's)          115        260       338
Estimated Deficit (000')                        1,236     1,356        782
Housing Deficit as a percentage of
households                                     22.2      20.8       10.4
/a   The average number of persons per housing unit is higher (6.97 in 1970)
than the average number of members per household, indicating shared
houshold occupancy.
Source: Status of Housing, Ministry of Construction 1973.
1/   A household is defined in the 1970 Census of Population and Housing as
a group of persons who make common provision for food or other services
for living.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
2.        While measuring the housing shortage by the incidence of multiple
household units is a distinct value judgment, the high percentage (22.2%)
of households sharing units bring into relief problems of high housing
costs and obvious housing shortages. Shared occupancy is more extreme in
urban areas indicating a greater shortage of housing in the cities. A 1970
Census of Population and Housing shows that in the cities 27% of all housing
units are shared by two households, 4% by three, and 7% by four or more
households. 1/ The average number of persons per housing unit is 8.8 in the
cities (compared to an average of 6.6 for the nation).
3.        Urban crowding in housing is more prevalent among the low-income
groups, about half of wlhom are renters. No data differentiates housing
demand by household income, but a 1972 survey of family income and expend-
iture shows that one-third of all urban families, have monthly incomes of
less than W 38,000 (US$95); 2/ financial arrangemients for housing and housing
costs for these families are a burden. Typically, the costs (1972 and 1973)
involved for public housing are:
Py   M    W Million    US$        Average Cost
Land                      50  165        1.0      2,500   W 20,000 per py
House Construction         20   66       1.6      4,000   W 70,000 per py
Total Cost                    2.6       6,500
Under existing housing programs, loans can be obtained for up to 50% of the
cost of house construction; no financing is available for land. Consequently,
to afford the public housing unit described above, a family must be able to
invest W 1.8 million (US$4,500) outright, and make monthly mortgage payments
on a W 0.8 million (US$2,000) loan.
4.        Rental units are scarce (4% of total housing units in 1970) and
expensive. Approximately 90% of all rentals require a very large rental
deposit that excludes families without substantial savings or moderate
incomes.  Most houses are owner-occupied and a portion of the house is
rented to defray housing costs.
Housing Supply
5.        National housing production of 866,000 units between 1962 and 1971
has been only two-thirds of household formation. Eighty-four percent of the
1/   Thirteen percent of all households nationwide are shared by two households,
4% by three, and 3% by four or more households.
2/   Fifty-five percent of the urban families were considered middle-income
(W 35,500-75,000) and 11% high-income.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
units were produced by the private sector for middle and upper income groups;
public housing programs provided only 143,000 housing units.
6.        In the First (1963-68) and Second (1968-72) Five-Year Economic
Plans, the Government placed priority for investment on industrial expansion;
national savings were insufficient to provide for private housing on a large
scale. In 1973, a Housing Construction Promotion Law was enacted to
stimulate the generation of funds for public housing. The law provides for
the raising of national housing funds through the compulsory purchase of
national housing bonds (at 6% interest, 5-year redemption) by those seeking
business licenses, in addition to the more traditional ways of obtaining
funds through housing lotteries, housing debentures, governmental budgetary
loans and foreign loans. In the first year, the Korea Housing Bank, charged
with administering the national housing fund, raised W 8 billion (US$20 mil-
lion) through housing bonds (see Table 3). It plans to double sales of
housing bonds in 1974, making bonds the prime source of capital for public
housing.
7.        Housing supply, however, will continue to remain scarce under cur-
rent investment plans. Planned national investment (including W 235 billion
from housing bonds) in housing between 1973 and 1981 is only W 1.318 billion
(US$3.3 billion) or less than half of the amount required to support the
Ministry of Construction's program for the supply of 2.5 million new houses.
The Economic Planning Board's housing investment estimates contained in the
Long Term Perspective Plan are as follows:
Table 2
Housing Sector Estimates 1973-1981
% of Total
Housing           Capital
Period        Investment       Investment
(W billion)
1973-1981            1,318 /a            9.8
1973-1976              426              10.4
1977-1981              892               9.5
/a   W 197 billion public investmert and W 1,120 billion private investment
(established sources W 235 billion from housing bonds, W 17 billion from
lottery, W 145 billion from Korea Housing Bank, and W 723 billion from
other unspecified sources).
Source:   Major Economic Indicators of the Korean Economy 1973-1981, Economic
Planning Board, June 1973.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
The investment planned is 65% more than the investment expended on housing
between 1962 and 1971 but the annual average number of houses constructed
then was 87,000 compared to a planned annual construction of 250,000. The
estimate of planned investment is based on an unrealistic housing unit cost
of W 500,000 (US$1,250) and does not include infrastructure or other site
development costs. The related housing costs, for which no financing is
available, are a major constraint for private and public developers; developers
are unable to assemble large enough parcels of land and prepare sites at
modest enough prices for large scale housing construction. Under authority
of the Land Expropriation and Planning Law, the Government can delineate
areas for public housing development and freeze the prices of land to be
acquired. This authority could faciliate housing delivery if used more
frequently and expanded to provide for public financial support for land
purchase and site development.
8.        Eighty-five percent of the total housing investment planned for
1973-81 is to be generated from the private sector, but the means of
mobilizing private resources are largely unspecified. The investment gap
(W 723 billion as shown in Table 2) illustrates the need to stimulate
private savings through the institution of savings and loan associations
and to concentrate on increasing private sector involvement.
Public Housing Sponsors
9.        The Korea Housing Bank (KHB) is the only long-term mortgage lending
institution in Korea. It was established in 1967 as a public corporation
under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance to raise funds for housing
construction loans to middle- and low-income families. The source of funds
for KHB, which as noted earlier, is entrusted by law with the National
Housing Fund, is as follows:
Table 3
Source of Funds Korea Housing Bank (%)
1973
1971      1972      (10 months)
Deposits                        41.6      47.6         38.4
National Housing Fund:
Bond and Debentures          25.1       22.8         42.1
Borrowings                   21.6        9.8          6.9
Lotteries                        3.5       3.8          4.6
Other                            5.9      14.2          1.6
Sale of Stock                    2.1       1.6           -
Earnings                          .2         .2         6.3
100.0     100.0        100.0



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
10.       KHB lends for both public housing and private housing construction,
but the bulk (about 70% in the last three years) of its loans are for private
housing. The terms of lending in the two categories differ, and are tied to
the different sources of funds. The maximum loan available covers 50% of
housing construction costs, and the terms on loans for private housing are
14% interest for a 20-year term and on public housing 8% interest for a
15-year term. KHB funds are available only for low- and middle-income groups
and for the construction of houses no larger than 25 pyong (82.5 m2). Loan
recipients tend to be middle-income families .(W 50,000 per month) (see para
3). Upper-income groups generally make outright cash purchases as commercial
bank lending is limited to a term of 1-3 years and interest is 15.5%. Public
housing construction is carried out by the Korea Housing Corporation and by
municipal and provincial governments.
11.       The Korea Housing Corporation (KHC) was established in 1962 as a
semi-autonomous agency of the MOC to execute middle- and low-income hoising
projects by providing management services, technical training and operation
of housing sites. The Corporation contracts out the actual construction of
housing units and related community facilities, but provides supervision and
engineering services. KHC uses standard housing plans and maintains a hous-
ing research unit on improvement and production of building materials.
12.       KiC undertakes a variety of housing programs only one of which is
specifically aimed at low-income groups. It supervises the construction of
housing units for government employees, foreigners and military personnel,
and manages rental units as well as sales units. In general the units have
been of three types: (i) lease-purchase single family houses 43 m2 in size
and costing US$3,600 per unit (1970) plus land; (ii) condominium apartments
43-66 m2 in size and costing US$8,140-10,800; and (iii) condominium apart-
ments 86-198 m2 in size and costing up to US$35,000.
13.       KIIB construction loans (administered by KHC) have been available
for low- and middle-income groups.  Upper-income groups have been required
to make cash purchases of apartment units.
14.       In addition to its general housing programs, IOIC has undertaken
one sites and services program as part of a larger low-cost housing develop-
ment at Kai Bong outside of Seoul. The housing plots ranged in size from
165 m2 to 330  2 each, and sold for US$3,750 to 7,500 (W 1.5 to 3 million).
KHB financing was not available for the serviced plot and for only a portion
of the housing construction. As a result the sites and services program was
as costlv as other public housing programs, particularly as most housing
construction was contracted out.
15.       Although an increasingly large portion of KHC operations is
directed at low-income households (over 50% of the housing units con-
structed in 1973, and over 90%--10,600 out of 11,475 units--to be constructed
in 1974) the major beneficiaries have been middle- to high-income households.



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
As noted earlier, housing costs are high; 72.6 m  apartments completed in
Seoul under an AID guaranty program in 1972 cost US$9,000 a unit.  In 1974,
AID approved a second housing investment guaranty program consisting of a
US$15 million loan for the construction of 46.2 m2 apartments at cost of
US$5,000-8,000 each.
16.       KHC has undertaken rental apartments as well as sales apartments
as part of its effort to provide housing for low-income groups. In order
to provide cheap rentals (charged at 3% of the construction costs) KHC has
received government subsidy.
17.       KHC has not yet extended its construction program beyond Seoul,
Busan and other large cities of Korea. Public housing in most cities is
very limited and administered by the municipalities.
Local Governments
18.       Provincial and municipal governments are severely limited by
shortages in both funds and technical expertise for public housing. Between
1962 and 1971, local governments have been responsible for the construction
of 26,000 houses or 4% of the total number of houses constructed. Most of
these houses have been funded under a disaster relief program administered
by the Ministry of Home Affairs.
19.       The cities are eligible to receive KHB support for public housing
programs, although KHB lending outside of the larger cities of Korea has
been modest. Even where KHB lending has been available through branch banks,
lending has been minimal. In Gwangju City, for example, about 900 public
housing units have been constructed since 1969 (and 16,000 private units).
This compares to an estimated housing demand of roughly 47,000. 1/ KHB has
estimated that the total demand for public housing in Gwangju region will
be 200,000 units by 1981. KHB lending in the region for 1974, however, is
anticipated to provide only 400 public housing units.
20.       The cities have been generally unsuccessful in providing public
housing to low-income groups despite certain experimental efforts to reduce
housing costs. In 1968, the municipal government of Seoul constructed
Citizens Apartments for sale to squatters. The apartments (3,100 units
constructed between 1968 and 1970) were 36 m2 in size, and consisted of two
rooms, one water tap, and a shared (among ten units) sanitary facility. The
cost of the units was US$1,000; an additional cost of US$700 was required
for the finish of the interior and a pro-rata share of the common sanitary
facility. The city subsidized up to one-third of the apartment cost, and
provided financing at 8% over 15 years for the balance. The apartment
1/   The housing demand is based on the number of households that share
occupancy of a housing unit.



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
program failed mainly as a result of the poor construction of the apartments
which became quickly converted into slums and the collapse of one building.
In addition, about half of the units were leased or sold to others and one-
third of the occupants were in arrears on their payments. The experience
of other cities in providing frame apartments has been less dramatic, yet
disappointing. The result has been to direct most municipal housing programs
towards higher income groups.
21.       The cities have financed to a certain extent their housing programs
by speculating on land. Under the Land Readjustment Law, the cities have
been able to acquire land for public housing, provide the total land area
with urban infrastructure, and sell off housing lots at market prices. The
urbanized land, however, tends to be too expensive for low-income households
to purchase.
Housing Policy
22.       The 1973 Housing Construction Promotion Law established a housing
Policy Council 1/ to prepare policies and plans and allocate funds for the
short and long-term supply of housing; the Agency for International Devel-
opment is assisting the operation of the Council as part of its recent
housing investment guaranty project in Korea (see para 15). 2/ A housing
policy is required that defines real housing needs among all income groups,
that guides housing supply programs and integrates the supply programs with
national economic plans. Further, the role of the public and private sector
in supply of housing needs clarification and a strategy developed to coordin-
ate and facilitate their respective involvements.
23.       The Government intends to issue a housing policy by 1975 which
takes into consideration the main constraints on housing production. The
Bank will contribute to the formulation of a comprehensive housing policy
through its attention in the proposed project to low-cost housing construc-
tion and to the demand for housing among low-income groups. The experience
of housing sites and services in Gwangju's secondary cities will be evaluated
under the project as one of several approaches to solution of the housing
problems.
1/   The  Housing Policy Council chaired by the Vice-Minister for Construc-
tion includes representatives from the Korea Housing Corporation, the
Korea Housing Bank, the Economic Planning Board, the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and two
representatives from the private sector.
2/   AID potential role in the housing policy development is outlined in
"Report on the Mission to Korea, November 6-11, 1973" Alfred P. Van
Huyck, PADCO, Inc.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 15
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Housing Sites and Services -- Site
Planning and Design Standards
A. Site Planning
Site Selection
1.        In each of the three cities of Yeosu, Ilogpo, and Gwangju, a
number of sites were examined and evaluated before a choice for the prdject
site was made. Details of sites examined, leading to selection of a suitable
site are as follows:
Yeosu
2.        Two sites were investigated:  the first site is located in the
Sinweol Dong area (site of the old airport), about 5 km west of downtown
Yeosu. The second site, Gukdong, lies north and adjacent to the proposed
fisherv harbor complex, and about 2.5 km west of downtown Yeosu. The latter
site is not onlv accessible, but has a number of features (availability of
community facilities, basic infrastructure, etc.) which makes it a good choice
as a first stage project that can be replicated and expanded. For the future,
however, the Government is also considering a site in the congested and
limited area where the old port is located. But this will probably be
developed for high density (apartment) dwellings. The Gukdong site selected
in Yeosu is technically a better site for housing development although it
requires terracing.
LLWo
3.        Two sites were investigated:  one in the Bughang area near the North
Port and the other, the Dongmyeongdong area, 1 kia east of downtown !Mogpo.
The Bughang area is often flooded, has poor soil conditions and presently has
no access to the site. The cost for infrastructure services including off-
site infrastructure would be higher than that of the Dongmyeongdong area.
Furthermore, it is being zoned for future industrial use. The Dongmyeongdong
area, therefore, has been selected.
Gwang j u
4.        Three sites were investigated:  the Sinandong area, the Gwangcheon-
dong area, and the Weolsandong area.  The following is a rating of each of
the tlhree sites:



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 15
Site Considerations           Sinandong          Gwangcheondong           Weolsandong
Area
Land Price                W 20,000/py             W 12,000/py              W 8,000/py
Off-Site
Infrastructure :
Roads                No access exists            Good access          Excellent
(The Sunwhandoro main
road rune alongside
the area)
Existing Water Supply   2 km from existing          2.5 km from           0.5 km from
Source                   water mains                existing water       existing water
mains                mains
Electric Transmission   1 km from existing          0.8 km from           adjacent existing
transmission lines         existing trans-      transmission lines
mission lines        run along the
Sunwhandoro main road
Transportation Linkage  Good                        No lines              Excellent
Soil Conditions          Good                       Swampy                Good
Terrain                  Good                       Sloped                Good
Storm Drainage           Bad                        Good                  Excellent
(oeuglageheon stream)
Other Factors            Many dwelling              Many dwelling         Almost totally
units exist                units exist          vacant land
The Weolsandong area was,therefore chosen as the selected project site.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 15
Project Sites
5.        The three housing sites and services project components form in
each of the three cities the first stage of the long-term development of a
larger area. The total area to be developed in each city is about 240,000
py (79 ha) in Yeosu; 390,000 py (129 ha) in Mogpo; and 200,000 py (66 ha) in
Gwangju. Out of this, the project components cover 31,077 py (10.3 ha);
39,110 py (12.9 ha); and 41,808 py (13.8 ha) respectively.
Site Characteristics
6.        The following table gives the physical characteristics of the sites
selected for the first stage of development:
City                 Yeosu                       Mogpo                  Gwangju
Site               Gukdong Site              Dongmyeongdong Site   Weolsandong Site
1. Location    About 2 km west from    About 1 km southeast   About 2.5 km south-
city center, very        from city center,        west from city
close to the proposed   close to harbor and    center; closest to
Yeosu fishery harbor    industrial area of        existing municipal
complex; closest         Samhagdo; closest to   services, primary
area to existing         existing municipal       schools, public
municipal services       services and employ-   transportation
and employment.          ment.                    and infrastructure.
2. Area              10.3 ha                        12.9 ha               13.8 ha
3. Terrain     Excellent sea view,       Excellent level and    Excellent, gener-
minimum foliage          well drained.  Some    ally flat, gently
cover, but sloped        back flow in case of   sloping towards the
slightly (12%)           high tides.  Land is   Gueglagcheon stream
requires terracing,      a very large, vacant   (15 m wide).  Well
cutting and filling.    area (12.9 ha)            drained.
Well drained.            already reserved
for residential use.
Reclaimed 9 years
ago (1964). Filling
required.
4. Transporta- Bus line serves site    Bus line serves site   Bus line serves
tion        every 15 minutes          every 15 minutes         site every 10
Linkage      along the access         along the access         minutes along
road to Gukdong          road to Samhagdo         Sunwhandoro road
from the western         port area linking        through Gwang-
edge of the city to      downtown.                namro road to
the downtown area.                                downtown.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 15
Yeosu                     Mogpo                Gwangju
5. Employment  Site is within 600 m    Mogpo fishery harbor   The Asia Motor Co.,
Linkage   from the proposed         is located just across small and medium
fishery harbor com-      the access road to      industries located
plex.                    Samhagdo.  Project      3 km away.  Bus
access road component  travel = 8 minutes.
will link site to
industrial estate.
6. Off-Site
Infra-
structure
(a) Roads   Excellent road access.  Main access from down- Excellent road
Road from Suncheon       town along the harbor  access, linking with
will be directly         side.                   the Gwangnamro from
linked with the pro-                             downtown.
posed Seogyodong-
Orimdong access road,
and fishery complex
arterial road.
(b) Water   A 300 mm dia. water      Existing main along the Existing main is
Supply  main is buried along    access road to Samhagdo about 500 m away,
the major access road,  is 300 mm 0 with water  where a 400 mm 0
having good water        pressure varying from   exists, with water
pressure varying from   +3.0 to 3.5 kg/cm2.       pressure varying       2
3 to 4.5 kg/cm2.  A      Augmentation of water   from 3.0 to 3.5 kg/cm
booster pump station    supply from new dam
is required to pump      under construction, and
up the water into a      planned improvements in
storage tank.  Current  city distribution
construction plans       system by end 1976 will
will boost quantity      increase both quantity
and quality of water    and water pressure to
supply to Yeosu by       project site.
end 1975.
(c) Drainage Existing open drain    Existing open drain from Nearby stream acts
along the proposed       the west to the east of  as collector of
major on-site road       site should be improved  storm water
(west side of pro-       to the existing           drainage.
posed site) should       detention basin.
be improved.
(d) Elec-   Existing transmission   Existing transmission    Existing transmission
tricity  line lies along the      line lies adjacent to    line lies parallel
major access road.       and south of the pro-    and along Sunwhandoro
posed site.               road running adjacent
to site.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 15
Site Planning Criteria
7.        The criteria used in planning sites and services areas can be
divided into socioeconomic and engineering criteria. Socioeconomic criteria
include:
(a) adequate land use planning for housing, community facilities,
and circulation areas; in terms of access, safety, and social
interaction at minimum costs;
(b) availability of adequate community facilities, i.e., schools,
clinics, community centers, markets, day care centers, etc.;
(c) grouping of these facilities in such a way as to form an
attractive and viable nucleus for community activities,
permitting multiple use of building and play areas;
(d) a safe and convenient system of pedestrian circulation linking
lots to public transport, play areas and community facilities;
(e) vehicular circulation within the areas allowing access to resi-
dential lots, commercial and public areas and providing easy
flow of traffic while protecting the neighborhoods from
through traffic;
(f) availability of municipal servicing areas and garbage pick-up
facilities; and
(g) lot layouts designed to reflect local social preferences and
life styles, limiting traffic noise, industrial pollution and
obnoxious odors.
Engineering criteria include:
(a) optimum physical planning complying to desirable ranges of
population density and land use percentages for circulation,
public and private areas, and lot coverage;
(b) adequate provision of basic services, roads, footpaths,
storm water drainage, water supply, fire hydrants, sewage
disposal, power supply and security lighting;
(c) flexibility in the design of the physical layout and basic
services to permit and provide for future extensions and
improvements as household needs and incomes change.



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 15
Planning Standards
8.        Based on the above criteria, the following planning standards have
been adopted in developing site plans for the proposed sites and services
project components:
(a) the gross housing density (number of plots/entire area in ha)
is about 55;
(b)  land use ratios (percentage of the different uses for the entire
area) are as follows:
(i) residential use (varying between) 70-80%
(ii) community facilities 2-5%
(iii) green areas - (playgrounds or parks) 2-5%
(iv) roads and footpaths 16-22%;
(c)  three types of lot sizes are utilized:  35 py (116 m ) 50 py (165 m2)
and 70 py (231 m2);
(d) the percentage distribution of each lot size is as follows:
35 py iots 70%; 50 py lots 20%; and 70 py lots 10%;
(e) a block consists of 50 to 75 lots which is divided
into two or three smaller blocks made up and varying between
20-25 lots.
Site Lavout
9.        The three housing sites are divided into plots of three sizes:
35 py (116 m2), 50 py (165 m2), and 70 py (231 m2).  The 116 m2 lots will be
reserved for low-income households, the 165 m2 lots for middle-income house-
holds and the 231 m2 lots for high-income households (see Table 1 for the
estimated 1976 income distribution). The mix of different income groups
would further the social development of the area. Past attempts in the
secondary cities to build areas exclusively for low-income families have had
undesirable social effects and such programs have now been discontinued.
10.       The number of plots and the distribution of the area are as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 15
Number of Plots             Yeosu   Mogpo   Gwangju    Total
35 Py                    395    475       495      1,365
50 Py                     92    121       134        347
7O Py                     53     56        72        181
Total                    540    652       701      1,893
Absolute Distribution                          -
of Total Area (Pyong)
35 Py Lots            13,825 16,625   17,325      47,775
50 Py Lots             4,600  6,050    6,700      17,350
70 Py Lots             3,710  3,920    5,040      12,670
Public Areas           8,942 12,515   12,743      34,200
Total                 31.077 39,110   41,808    111,995
Relative Distribution of
the Total Area (%)
35 Py Lots                44.5   42.5      41.4
50 Py Lots                14.8   15.5      16.0
70 Py Lots                11.9   10.0      12.1
Public Areas              28.8   32.0      30.5
Total                    100.0  100.0    100.0
Site Preparation
11.       Site preparation on the three housing sites involves clearing the
sites of trees and vegetation, earthwork in excavation, hauling away from
excavated areas to fill areas, leveling and compaction. In Mogpo, extensive
earthfilling is required because of existing low ground levels. In Yeosu,
the project area is on a hilly site necessitating terracing and protective
masonry works to maximize the availability of lots. The Gwangju project site
is bound by a stream on the south, necessitating bank revetment work to
protect the project area in the vicinity of the stream from erosion.
B. Design Standards
Infrastructure
12.       In designing the infrastructure, standards have been reduced to
provide the minimum acceptable without sacrificing sound engineering and good
practice, and thus reach the low-income households. A detailed analysis of
the minimum requirements of the sites and services project components as well
as MOC prevailing standards and anticipated requirements for future urban
growth was considered.



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 15
(a) Off-Site Access and Circulation Roads
13.       Off-site access roads, connecting the project sites to existing
city roads, will be paved having a 20 cm thick compacted aggregate stone
sub-base, an asphalt prime coat, a 15 cm thick base course, and an asphalt/
aggregate wearing surface 5 cm thick. Side drainage gutters and gutter inlets
will also be provided. The paved width varies from 7 m in Gwangju to 9 m in
Mogpo. In Yeosu, a road-width reservation of 13 m is designed to allow for
future widening.
14.       Off-site circulation roads are provided for the Gwangju and I4ogpo
project sites. These roads facilitate entry and exit at different points
along the peripheral boundary of the first stage development. In Gwangju,
the road will be asphalt paved for a width of 7 m to the same standards as
described in para 13. A reinforced concrete "slab deck design" bridge 20
m in length and 8 m in width is incorporated in the western section. In Mogpo,
the circulation road is to be constructed in two sections: the southern
section will be asphalt paved for a width of 8 m, to the same standards as para
13.  The remainder will be an earth compacted road, unpaved for the first
stage of development. In both Gwangju and Mogpo, since future expansions of
the housing sites are envisaged in the future, the circulation roads will be
absorbed and upgraded where necessary in future stages of planned development.
(b) On-Site Roads
15.       Standards and specifications for the network of on-site roads are
as follows:
(i)  Main roads will serve as collector roads linking the
off-site access and circulation roads to secondary
roads, and will provide vehicular and pedestrian
access to the residential blocks. The service width
will vary between 7 m to 9 m, with surface water
drainage gutters on either side. Construction com-
prises of a 5 cm asphalt wearing surface area laid on
a 15 cm hardcore base course of selected aggregate
stone carried on 20 cm treated sub-base of graded and
compacted formation. The surface water drainage gutters
are "L"-type concrete gutters. Unit cost for this
road is estimated between W 12,478 (US$31) to W 28,627
(US$71.6) per linear meter.
(ii)  Secondary roads will provide vehicular and pedestrian
access to residential plots. They will also be used
for emergency and service vehicles (fire trucks,
ambulances, night-soil removal trucks, trash and garbage
removal trucks, etc.). These roads will have a service
width of 5 m, with surface water drainage gutters on
either side. Construction specifications are the same



ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 15
as main roads. Unit cost for this road is estimated
to be W 18,634 (US$46.5) per linear meter.
(iii) Footpaths will provide major circulation for pedestrians
and bicycles and will connect all lots with public
areas and facilities. They will serve as cluster and
plot entrances, and have a service width of 4 m bordered
by concrete curbs on either side. Construction comprises
a 6 cm concrete slab laid on 3 cm compacted sand fill
bed. Unit cost for this road is estimated to be W 7,076
(US$17.7) per linear meter.
16.       The approximate lengths of the different roads for each of the cities
are given below in meters:
Yeosu     Mogpo      Gwangju      Total    % of Total
Main Roads        916      848          268        2,032         16
Secondary
Roads            933    1,803        1,339        4,075         32
Footpaths       1,955    1,618        3,209        6,782         52
Total     3,804    4,269         4,816       12,889       100
Water Supply
17.       A brief description of the present water supply arrangements for
each city is given below:
Yeosu currently obtains its raw water from an intake on the Eui Sa
River near Suncheon. The intake is owned and operated by the Bureau
of Industry. A pumping station with a capacity of 25,000 MTD, located
at the intake, pumps raw water through a 22 km long 500/600 mm diameter
transmission pipeline to the Hwang Yang industrial area north of Yeosu,
and further to Yeosu City itself through a 450 mm diameter branch
pipeline 12.5 km long. Two pumping stations in the branch system
boost the raw water to a new rapid-gravity water treatment plant
located near the city, and capable of producing 10,000 MTD. The water
treatment plant is owned and operated by the City. The Bureau of
Industry has currently commenced the first stage of construction for
increasing the supply of industrial raw water for the future expanded
needs of the Hwang Yang industrial area, and the city of Yeosu, from
a new supply source, namely the Sumgin River. Work is expected to be
completed by the end of 1975. When completed, the first stage will
supply 100,000 MTD of raw water, of which 10,000 MTD has already been



ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 15
earmarked for Yeosu. The city already has budgeted plans to absorb the
augmented future supply, treatment and distribution. Technical
assistance is being provided within the project to assist the City of
Yeosu to effectively implement these improvements, among other items
dealing with water supply.
Mogpo derives its water supply from an intake on the Yong San
Gang River, located at Naju 29 km away. A rapid-gravity filtra-
tion plant located at the intake has a production capacity of
25,000 MTD, and the water is pumped through supply pipes to a
service reservoir in Mogpo. Five local impoundments with slow
sand filters supplement another 5,000 MTD to the Mogpo reservoir.
The city of Mogpo has commenced construction of another source of
water supply at Daedong Dam, 40 km north of the city. This source
is anticipated to produce about 25,000 MTD by the end of 1976.
The city already has budgeted plans to absorb the augmented future
supply, treatment and distribution. Technical assistance is being
provided within the project to assist the city of Mogpo effectively
implement these improvements, among other items dealing with water
supply .
Gwangju derives its water supply from two surface reservoirs, the
Segok (with a capacity of 15,000 MTD and the Dongbok (with a capacity
of 60,000 MTD). The water is treated at rapid gravity filtration
plants near the city. However, the city experiences difficulty in
water treatment, production, and distribution losses; and technical
assistance is being provided within the project to assist the city of
Gwangju overcome these difficulties, among other items dealing with
water supply.
18.       The water supply system for the three project components is designed
for an initial per capita consumption of 150 liters per day, with individual
metered connections to each house (the water rates are discussed in Annex 9).
This is a modest design standard, consistent with the low overall water
supply standards in the region. A gradual reduction over time is expected
in the number of occupants per house, permitting the per capita consumption to
increase correspondingly.
19.       The off-site trunk water mains linking existing municipal supply to
the project sites, and on-site distribution networks will consist of cast
iron pipes, the former of 100 mm and 150 mm diameters, and the latter of 75
mm and 100 mm diameters. The on-site distribution system will follow the
roads and footpath layout. Fire hydrants will be located at convenient points
within the road network, with the maximum distance between any hydrant and
plot not being more than 140 m. For the Yeosu project site, a water distribu-
tion tank and a booster pumping station will be required due to the hilly
terrain. The lengths and diameters of the pipes included in the project
are as given below:



ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 15
Trunk Water Mains        Distribution Network
Off-Site                   On-Site
Yeosu                     100 mm diameter,         75/100 mm diameters
180 m total length       3.65 km total length
Mogpo                     150 mm diameter,         75/100 mm diameters
570 m total length       5.73 km total length
Gwangju                   150 mm diameter,         75/100 mm diameters
480 m total length       5.28 km total length
20.       Because of poor standards of management, operation and maintenance
in the existing municipal systems, and the need to increase the water supply,
an immediate work program and studies are required to ensure adequate water
supply in the future. Technical assistance is included in the project for
immediate works, feasibility studies and master plans (see Annex 7).
21.       Disposal of Human Wastes.  Presently, all three cities rely
heavily on manual collection of the "night soil". Holding tanks and cess-
pools are also used to a large extent, particularly in Yeosu where suction
trucks are used to transfer the sewage from tanks and pools to barges which
are towed out to open sea for dumping.  Gwangju has a small waterborne
sewerage system, serving about 1% of the population.
22.       The problems of human wastes disposal in the secondary cities will
be studied under an action program, and technical assistance is included in
the project for an immediate and long-range program which will include
feasibility studies and master plans (see Annex 7).
23.       For the first stage of development of the housing sites and
services project components, it is proposed to utilize the existing system
of individual holding tanks (or cesspools) to be built by lot owners when
they build their houses. The municipalities will extend their scavenging
truck services, until permanent solutions can be implemented. Costs for
the disposal of human wastes at the project sites, therefore, is not included
in the cost of the project.
Drainage
24.       A brief description of the present drainage situation in each city
is provided below:
Yeosu has a system of open drains and channels to convey both
storm drainage and waste water into the sea. Because of the
hilly terrain and small tides, there are no special drainage
problems.



ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 15
Mogpo is sited on hilly terrain surrounded by low-lying
reclaimed areas which are subject to flooding. A drainage
study has been made by a local consultant. Based on his
recommendations, the city has done some work, especially in
the reclaimed areas. The proposed housing site is on land
reclaimed by dredging, behind a sea dyke. Waste water and
storm drainage is now collected in a retarding basin, which
also receives water drained from part of the downtown area.
Pumps discharge the water collected into the sea. The size
of the basin and pumps will require review by outside con-
sultants to determine future adequacy for serving the housing
sites (see Annex 7).
Gwangju currently has a system of open drains for rainfall and
storm water. These drains convey the runoff to drainage
channels discharging into the Gwangju River. Waste water and
discharges from overflowing cesspools and septic tanks often
find their way into the storm drains.
25.       The drainage systems incorporated in the housing sites and services
components are combined systems for storm water and domestic waste water
(or sullage) disposal. The design criteria for surface water storm drainage
is based upon 10-year storm intensity duration curves. Off-site drainage
will utilize large open gutters and reinforced concrete box culverts of
various sizes, together with reinforced concrete spun pipes of various diameters.
On-site drainage network will run alongside and parallel to the road network.
Inspection manholes are included, installed at suitable points, with surface
water drainage let into the main interceptors through road drainage gutter
inlets approximately 30 m apart. The following is a breakdown of reinforced
concrete gutters, culverts, and spun pipe elements included in the drainage
design:
Off-Site Elements       On-Site Elements
Yeosu                      (i) "U"-type gutters:  1.2m x  (i) Box culvert 2.0m
1.2m, 1.0m x 0.6m & 0.4m x      x 1.5m, 163m in
0.4m Sections for a total         length.
length of 467m.
(ii)600mm 0 spun pipe, 183m    (ii) 600 mm 0 to 1,200mm
length.                           0 spun pipes, for
a total length of
3.37 km.
Mogpo                         450mm 0 spun pipe 208m            250 mm 0 to 1,500mm
long                              0 spun pipes for a
total length of
5.29 km.
Gwangju                            -None-                  (i) Double-box culvert.
3m x 3m - 154m long.
(ii) 250mm 0 to 450mm 0
spun pipes for a
total length of
5.15km.



ANNEX 5
Page 13 of 15
Electricity
26.       The source of electricity for each city is as follows:
Yeosu     A new distribution line from the existing KECO substation
will be installed. The off-site incoming line will be 3
phase, 3 wire, with a capacity of 3.3 KV.
Mogpo     KECO has a plan to increase the voltage of the existing
distribution line from 3.3 KV to 22.9 KV by June 1975.
The off-site incoming line will be installed on concrete
poles up to the southern boundary of the public housing
project area.
Gwangju   There is already an existing distribution line running
along the Sunwhandoro road with a capacity of 6.6 KV
which will be tapped for the project site.
27.       Street lighting along the main and secondary roads, and along
footpaths will be provided, together with metered connections to each lot.
Community Facilities
28.       Due to the small size of the housing sites and services components
and the central location of the sites, the need for community facilities
is relatively small. All three sites are within walking distance of exist-
ing primary schools and shops. The following community facilities are
included in the project:
Yeosu     Children's playgrounds in five locations within the
project site (2,278 m2).
Mogpo     Children's playgrounds in four locations within the
project site (1,i54 m2); and a small health clinic
(116 m2). The health clinic will be designed to com-
ply with existing regulations, and will be operated
and maintained by Government.
Gwangju   Children's playgrounds in four locations within the
project site (2,583 m2).
Hlousing
29.       Although funds for housing construction are not financed out of
the loan, the appraisal mission has reviewed proposals for housing designs
and cost estimates. The Housing Bureau in the Ministry of Construction has



ANNEX 5
Page 14 of 15
prepared design plans for urban and rural dwelling units for a number of plot
sizes from which potential occupants can select preferred floor designs.  2
A typical low-cost housing design has a building area of 12.27 py (40.6 m )
at a total cost (including 20% contingencies) of about W 605,139 (US$1,512).
This type of housing can be afforded by households slightly above the 20th
percentile of the income distribution curve and is below what is presently
available to low-income households which range between W 1.5 to 2.0 million
per dwelling unit.
30.       The proposed low-income housing unit incorporates a number of
self-help features which the occupant is expected to provide. This housing
unit would have two bedrooms, one living room, one kitchen and one toilet.
Several alternatives have been worked out for this type of housing which
would allow a range of preferences for living arrangements. Portions of the
house requiring skilled labor would be contractor-built. Unlike in other
countries, housing units in Korea have to be finished and more substantial
because of extreme weather conditions. Out of the total cost of W 605,139
(US$1,512) about 33% of the cost is directly attributable to the need for
insulation and heating. The houses are designed initially to accommodate
about eight persons. It is expected that the occupants would expand these
units to 16 or 20 py (53 m2 or 66 m ) a5 their incomes increase. The average
building area per capita is about 5.1 m . The corresponding figu5e for
Calcutta in 1961 was 3.7 m2 per person; for Manila in 1965, 5.8 m per person;
and Tokyo in 1970, 6.0 m2 per person. For the middle and high-income groups
expected to occupy the 50 py (165 m2) and 70 py (231 m2) lots, it is expected2
that the housing units would be mostly contractor-built averaging about $46/mi



ANNEX5
Page 15 of 15
Table 1
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Estimated 1976 Income Distribution for Gwangju Region
Annual Household Income                            Percent of
Households
wtOoO                            US$
-    580                         -  1, 50                   20
580   -    696                  1,450  -   1,740                  10
696   -    824                  1,740  -   2,059                  10
824   -    956                  2,059  -   2,390                  10
956   -  1,072                  2,390  -   2,680                  10
1,072   -  1,195                  2,680  -   2,987                  10
1,195   -  1,346                  2,987  -   3,364                  1
1,346   -  1,601                  3,364  -   4,002                  10
1,601   +                         4,002  +
,ourcci and  ;s3unptiOnS;
The above figures are derived from an estimate of the 1976 Income Distribution of
Korea which was based on the following sources:
- Rural income distribution: Report on the Results of Farm Household
Economy Survey and Production Cost Survey of Agricultural Products, 1972,
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, ROK.
- Urban income distribution: Annual Report on the Family Incomae and Expenditure
Survey 1971, Bureau of Statistics, EPB, ROK.
- Surveyed income levels are adjusted to correspond to national income statistics.
- 1972-1976 per capita income growth rates, 14.7% per year (rural) and 15.8% per
year (urban) in current terms: Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Republic of Korea, I.B.R.D., February 20, 1974, Vol. 1, p. 53.
- 1972-1976 population growth rates, -0.6% per year for rural population and +2.8%
per year for urban population: Current Economic Position ..., op. cit. p. 55a
(1972-1981 growth rates).
- The relativa income distribution is assumed to remain unchanged between 1971-1976.
- A household size of 8 persons is assumed for all households in Gwangju.
- %rgeytage distribution of all households is assuned to be the same in the nation as
a wnoe.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 10
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex
Yeosu
1.        Yeosu, located at the middle of the South Sea coast, is Gwangju
region's major fishery, passenger and cargo port city. It is a suitable
base for exploiting the fishery grounds of the East China Sea and the
Japan Sea. The city has grown up around a natural deep water harbor, and
has two ports - an old port which is badly congested mainly by passenger
and coastal shipping and commercial fishing vessels - and a cargo port
which handles exports and imports related mainly to heavy industry,
2.        W4hile Yeosu accounts for more than 40% of Korea's fishing popu-
lation, the fish landings at Yeosu are less than 25% of the national total.
Congestion and poor facilities at the old port have restricted landings of
the fishing fleet.
3.        At present, most vessels over 50 gross registered tons (GRT) based
in Yeosu, land the bulk of their catch in other ports of the south coast,
principally at Busan (outside the Gv7angju region) (Table 1). Since these
ports are farther away from the East China Sea, the main fishing grounds
for the Yeosu fleet, landing fish catches from tihe Yeosu area entails extra
fuel expense and a loss of fishing timae.  Nevertheless, shipowners and
skippers prefer this to the long delays incurred in unloading and servicing
in Yeosu and the risk of damage to their vessels due to the crowded port
conditions. Existing facilities for the landing, handling and discharge of
fish and marine products in Busan are being used to full capacity.
4.        The construction of a new fishery complex to relieve the congestion
at the old port, and to increase the volume of Yeosu fish landings is a pri-
mary target of both municipal and national plans. A site has already been
designated by the city for the development of a fishery harbor with related
commercial and residential facilities. An area of 30 ha has been set aside
for an industrial zone of which 12.5 ha would be developed immediately under
the proposed project. An access road linking the new fishery harbor complex
and related housing area to the national highway to facilitate the trucking
of fish and fish products in increased volume to Suncheon, Gwangju City and
other urban areas is also a part of thne proposed project.
5.        In addition to its established role as the center of fishery
activity in the region, the city is beginning to function as an indutrial
base for the Yeosu-Suncheon subregion. Since 1967, a Cal-Tex oil refinery



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 10
and a power plant have been located in a planned industrial estate 20 km
from Yeosu. A second power plant in the estate was completed in 1973.
To take advantage of these power sources and to expedite development of the
subregion, the Government is encouraging the location of other heavy in-
dustries, petrochemicals, fertilizers, heavy chemicals, metal products and
machine making in the vicinity of Yeosu and Gwangyang 60 km to the north
coast. A scheme to bring industrial water from the Sumjin River to this
region has just commenced. These developments would change markedly the
pattern of migration to Yeosu.
6.        The city's population is 122,000 and under current national plans
is projected to increase to 300,000 by 1981. Such an increase would ex-
acerbate the pressure on housing and other infrastructure that already
exists.
7.        The development of new areas, including the planned development
of a new fishing port and accompanying residential area, is necessary to
the provision of greater employment opportunities and a higher standard
of living in Yeosu.
Trends
8.        Registers for 1972 show that the fishing fleet based in Yeosu
consists of 492 vessels with a total tonnage of 6,700 GRT of which 357
with a total tonnage of 6,200 GRT are motorized. In addition, 69 "Fish
Carriers," 1/ also registered as fishing vessels and totalling 3,000 GRT,
are based in Yeosu.
9.         The composition of the fishing fleet is changing.  The number of
vessels under 20 tons which fish mainly in the coastal area around Yeosu
are expected to remain more or less stable. In contrast, the number of
bull trawlers (90 to 100 GRT) and stow netters (50 to 90 GRT) which are
engaged in offshore fishing in the East China Sea will increase, as the
exploitation of these fishing grounds has been found to be highly profitable.
Private sector investments in larger fishing vessels are now being facili-
tated by the Government. Catches in the East China Sea are very good, and
records show increases both in total catch, and in catch per haul (see
Table 3). In recent years, catch per vessel in this area has been increasing,
with Korean fishing vessels from Yeosu gradually replacing Japanese vessels.
The number of intermediate size stow netters and gill netters (20-30 tons)
would decrease as some of them would he replaced by larger vessels.  These
trends are reflected in the projections shown in Tables 4 and 5.
10.       New shore-based processing facilities are being built in Yeosu
by private firms to process Alaskan Pollack caught by deep sea trawlers.
Initially, it is expected that this species will be brou ght by fish carriers,
but a deep sea fishing fleet based in Yeosu will be gradually developed.
1/   Auxiliary fish transport craft attached to fishing vessels operating
for long periods at the fishing grounds.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 10
Subproject Description
11.       The subproject consists of construction of the first stage
development of a new fishery harbor complex with the necessary marketing,
storage, supply and maintenance facilities, as well as shelter and berthing
for fishing vessels. Behind the port area proper, an area will be delimited
to provide serviced sites for a fisheries industrial zone.
12.       The site selected for the fishing port is located at Gukdong, which
lies southwest of Yeosu City (Map 10962R1). It faces Dolsan Island lying in
the northwest part of Gamag Bay. In Yeosu, two possible sites, one in the
Shinweol district area (5 km southwest of Yeosu City) and one in the Gukdong
district area (2.5 km from the center of the city) were investigated. The
Shinweol site has shallow depths (3m and less), is exposed to the sea and has
soil conditions unfavorable for construction. The Gukdong site, facing nolsan
Island, is protected from wind and waves from all directions, making utneces-
sary the construction of sea defenses. It has favorable depths (5m - 7m),
and is closer to Yeosu.
13.       The site chosen for the proposed port extends seawards from an
already reclaimed land area. The 5m depth contour at approximate lowest
low water datum (LLW) lies within 150 m from the present low water shore-
line. It faces a triangular shaped basin, 1,200 m long and 1,000 m wide,
with depths more than 6 m at LLW. The basin is accessible to the north
from the old port through a channel about 200 m wide having depths more than
7 m at LLW. The mean tide range is about 2.02 m, ranging from a mean high
of 2.8 m above LLW to a mean low of 0.8 m above LLW. The fishery complex
would include the port area proper and a fish processing industrial zone. In
the port area, essential port services and a fisheries terminal will be built,
including the main fish handling and wholesale marketing facilities.
14.       The harbor will provide the following services to fishing vessels:
(a) Landing quays where daily fish catches (vessels 30 to
110 GRT) would be unloaded and conveyed to the fish
auction market. Two piers each of 80 m length, and
265 m of quay will provide berthing with a minimum depth
of 4 m at LLW.
(b) Servicing quays providing ice and fuel. These quays will
be used only by vessels preparing to go to sea, during the
time when supplies are on-loaded. 165 m of quay and an 80 m
pier will provide the necessary berthing facilities. The
depths alongside the quay will not be less than 4 m at LLW,
while at the pier, the depth will be a minimum of 6 m at LLW.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 10
(c) Berthing quays where fishing vessels will be moored, while
crews rest or when minor maintenance work is effected, or
when food and other miscellaneous supplies other than
those provided by (b) are on-loaded. 190 m quay at a
minimum depth of 4 m at LLW will be provided.
(d) A berthing pier for large vessels (1,000 GRT and over) will
be provided for the frozen catches. The pier will be 200 m
in length and will provide the minimum depth of 6 m at LLW.
(e) Fresh water supply would be provided at most quays, including
the servicing and berthing quays.
During Stage I development, already existing repair facilities, slipways and
vessel repair yards would be utilized. Vessels under 30 GRT will continue
to use the existing Marine Center in the old port area, until future extensions
of the fishery harbor can be effected.
Fisheries Terminal
15.       Fresh fish landed by the projected fleet will be handled through a
fisheries terminal consisting of a fish auction market, an ice-making plant
(with an initial production capacity of 150 ton/day, expandable to 450 ton/
day), a small freezing plant and storage rooms for chilled and frozen fish
(Table 5). These facilities will handle only fish landed in ice.
16.       Frozen fish from the North Pacific stern trawlers (projected to
about 1977-78) or fish carriers would be transferred directly to a nearby
industrial plant where it will be reprocessed.
Cost Estimates
17.       Estimates as shown in Annex 3 are considered realistic and based
on preliminary engineering prepared by MOC and their consultants (KECC) in
association with Japan Port Consultants Ltd. using costs as of early October
1974.



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Recorded and Estimated Catches and Landings in Yeosu and Yeocheon County
(1972)
Landings in
Estimated         other centers         Estimated
Estimated         landings          of Yeocheon           landings outside
catches          in Yeosu           County                Yeocheon County
-_________------------------tons---
Motorized vessels based in
Yeosu                              60,500             41,000                                    19,500
Sailing and rowing boats
based in Yeosu                       6,300              6,300
Boats based in other centers
of Yeocheon County  /1              25,60o              7,000             18,600  /2
Total                     92, 400            54,3000   2        18,600                 19,500
/1     These centers are villages of the districts of Dolsan, Samil, Yulchon, Sola and Sangbong.                  M
/2     Recorded landings.                                                                                          \-R
I0



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Fishing Fleet of Yeocheon County - 1972
Vessel                             Yeosu                            Yeocheon County, Yeosu Excluded
tonnage        Total           Number of    Number of           Total          Number of      Number of
range          number of       motorized    sailing and         number of     motorized       sailing and
(aRT)          vessels         vessels       rowing boats       vessels        vessels        rowing boats
50 and
over              48               48
30-50             19               19                      -       _
20-30              84              84             -                 7              7               -
10-20            128              109             19               93             72               21
5-10               59              59                             1 *16          133               13
2-5              141              107             34              55°            369              181
below 2            81               -             81            2,321             87            2*234
Total            560 /1           426 a          134            3,117            668            2,449
/1     Includes 69 fish carriers.
Source:  Fisheries Agency, Yeosu



6
AN.\TF, 6
Page 7 of 10
Table 3
KOPEA
SECONDARY CITIES REC(IONAL PROJECT
East China and Yellow Sea Fisheries
A.   Catch br Bull Trawlers
Year        Tota' Catch    Number oa       Catch per Hau.
(tons)         Hauils           (tons)
1964         63,089         225,318           0.280
1965         82,257         261,965           0.314
19")6        78,0h8         225,572           0.346
1967         95,115         333,737           0.285
1968        103,639         468,955           0.22I
1969        116,825         480,761           0.243
1970        143,763         454,946           0.316
197         168 211         5'9,170           0,324
B.  Catch b;r Stow Netters
Year        Total Catch    Number o-°    Cat2h per Set
(tons)         Sets            (tonss)
1963          50,217         23,721           2,117
1964         71,738          34,807           2.061
1965         72,41.8         30,466           2.377
1966         83,147          35,870           2.318
1967        '09,837          35,351           3.107
1968         96,060          36,318           2.645
1.969        79,437          37,602           2.086
1970         99,455          25,178           3.950
1971        103,562          26,149           3.920
C.   Catch bVv Mackerel Purse Seiners
Year        Total Catch    Number of        Catch Der Haul
(tons)          Hauls             ('ton8 )
1966          8,502              534         15.93
1967          6,206              541         11.,48
1968         11,574             916          12.63
1-969        41,796           1,945          21.49
1970         341,990          1,385          25.26
1971         60,947           2,675          22.79
1972         77,h98           2,652          29.9
Source:  Fisheries Research anA T)erelopment ATency, Yeosu Station.



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Projection of Pature Number &f Vessels, Catches and Landed Fish Value
for the Motorized Fishing Fleet of Yeosu
Value of catch in W million
Number of motorized           Catches of motorized vessels         Fish       calculated on the basis of 1973
vessels                          (l000 tons)                prices                 fish prices
Vessel   Main types of vessels       1972      1977  1979  1981        1972       1977   1979   1981   (w '000        1972        1977      1979      1981
tonnage                           (base year)                       (base year)                         per ton   (base year)
rsnUe S-in 1973)
90-110   Bull trawler                  10        20    25    30         9.0       18.0   22.5   27.0       80          720.0    1,440    1,800        2,160
70-90    Bull traw;er                  14         30    35    40       10.1       21.6   25.2   28.8        85         858-5    1,836    2,142        2,448
50-70    Stow netter                    6        40    50    60         4.3       29.0   36.3   43-5        65         279-5    1,885    2,360        2,828
30-50    Stow netter                   14         20    20    20        6.7        9.6    9.6    9.6        70         469.o       672       672        672
20-30    Stow netter and gill          51         50    45    40       13.8       13.5   12.1   10.8        90       1,242.0    1,215    1,089          972
nctter
10-20    Inchore 'boat                 96         90    90    9o       11.5       10.8   10.8   10.8       100       1,150.0    1,080    1,080        1,080
5-10     Insh.ore boat                 59         60    60    60        2.9        3.0    3.0    3.0       120          348.0       360      360        360
below 5  Inshore boat                 107        lO   110   110         2.1        2.2    2.2    2.2       130          273.0       286      286        286
Total                                 357       420   435   450        60.4      107.7  121.7  135.7                 5,340.0    8,774    9,789    10,8o6
Increment over 1972                    -         63    78    93          -        47.3   61.3   75.3                              3,434    49449      5,466
0
0D  P
H c O
C



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Projections of Fish Landings
Estimated Value At
Amount                          1973 Prices
1972     1977     1979     1981      1972    .1977     1979      1981
(base year) -                        (base year)
--------(000 tons)--------               In Billion Won)  .--------
Landings from rowing and sailing boats
of Yeosu  /1                               6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3        o.6      o.6      0.6      0.6
Landings from motorized vessels of
Yeosu    2                                60.4   107.7   121.7   135.7           5.3      8.8      9.8     10.8
Landings from fishing craft of nearby
centers  /                                 7.0      7.0      7.0       7.0       0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7
Total fresh fish landings  /3                73.7   121.0   135.0    149.0          6.6     10.1    11.1       12.1 /1
Frozen fish landings from fish carriers
or deep sea trawlers   a                    -      82.0    82.0       82.0        -       4.1      4.1       4.1
Total fish landings                          73.7   203.0   217.0   231.0           6.6     14.2     15.2      16.2
Increment over 1972                            -    129.3   143.3    157.3           -       7.6      8.6       9.6
1   See Table 1 for 1972 (base year) landings.
/2 See Table 4.
Not all the 1972 landings were made in Yeosu (See Table 1).
Price for frozen fish (Alaskan pollack) is W 50,000 per ton.                                                   1- R 
(D [   .
0



ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 10
Table- 6-
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Requirements for Facilities of the Fisheries Terminal
in the Fishing Port Area
In Old Port             In Proposed Port
(Reported 1973)           (Projected -1981)
Approximate quantity of fresh fish
handled in port                         54,000 tons               150,000 tons
Ice production                            35 tons/day                350 tons/day
(with space for
50% extension)
Ice storage                               300 tons                   1,500 tons
-(with space for
50% extension)
Chilled fish storage                    Included above               100 tons
Freezing                                5 tons/day                   25 tons/day
Frozen storage                          300 tons                     800 tons
Fish market buildings area              230 m2                       8,000 m2
Remarks
1.   Fish market area - Present facilities are totally inadequate.  Pro-
duction would be six times more in 1976, and nine times more in 1981.
At present 54,oo0 tons are handled, but the space available is
insufficient for efficient handling.
2.   Ice production - Present production is totally inadequate, especially
so in summer. Estimated vessel consumption would be 75% of the quantity
of fish landed + 25% of the quantity for the re-icing after sale and for
other miscellaneous purposes.
3.   Ice storage - Equivalent to between four and five days production to
cope with peak daily landing fluctuations.
4.   Chilled storage - Must be separated from ice storage, and used in emergency
for unsold fish. Estimated requirement: 20% of average daily landings.
5.   Freezing - To cater only for requirements of users without contract with
private processors. Estimates are related to present and projected
landings and facilities, with a maximum accumulation of 800 tons.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1.        The Government has requested technical assistance in the imple-
mentation of the project.  Specifically, consultants' services would be
required:
(a)  to assist in the establishment and operation of
the Gwangju Regional-Devievwo-- iitTti RDU)
at the provincial level;
(b)  to strengthen regional planning at the national
level;
(c)  to provide advisory assistance for management
and operation 'F tEW Yeiosufishery harbor complex;
(d)  to prepare a program involving provision of technical
assistance in water supply operation and management
and identification of short-term improvements in the
water supply systems in the four cities; and
(e)  to carry out feasibility studies and the preparation
of selected projects to be identified in the UNDP
Phase II Study and in studies undertaken by MOC.
2.        GRDU.  The main functions of GRDU as outlined in para. 5.12
necessitates the services of at least four advisors during the imple-
mentation of the project. The type of advisory assistance and scope of
work envisaged will be refined when a final work program for GRDU is
formulated.
-    A senior advisor would be required to advise the Project
Manager on overall management and on the engineering and
technical supervision of the project with particular
reference to designs, costs and specifications.
-    An advisor (economist/planner) would be required to assist
the GRDU in formulating a work program involving review of
proposed provincial development plans and ministerial
investment plans, and advisory assistance to the cities to
review urban land use plans with respect to the proposed
infrastructural investments.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
-    An advisor (engineer/economist) would be required to review
proposed housing designs and construction methods for the
housing sites and services subproject, establish monitoring
and evaluation procedures, and assist the Government's Task
Force on Housing Policy in formulating a national housing
policy.
-    An advisor (economist) would be required to assist in
reviewing proposals resulting from the UNDP Phase II Study,
and in identifying selected projects for feasibility study.
3.        Regional Planning Advisor.  One consultant would be required to
assist the Ministry of Construction in the review of regional development
policies including assisting in the formulation of a housing policy, develop-
ment of a program of self-help housing construction, and thetrainipngof the
regional planning staff. He would assist the Director of National Planning
Bureau-iff-formfulating--a-work program for the review of provincial development
plans, and advise the Director on specific programs under the responsibility
of the National Planning Bureau.
4.        Management Assistance to the Fishery Harbor Complex.  Three con-
sultants would be required to assist the Office of Fisheries in the manage-
ment and operation of the fishery harbor complex.  An engineering advisor
would advise the harbor manager on harbor management, including the planning,
operation and maintenance of its various facilities. The engineering advisor
would be required to have fishery industries experience because of the large
industrial processing site which would require the harbor manager's supervi-
sion. The engineer would also advise on general policy, development of
harbor by-laws, preparation of the annual budget, establishment of charges
and fees for various harbor services and updating of the harbor master plan
and capital improvements program. He would advise the harbor manager on
financial objectives that the port should establish, guidelines for operating
procedures and the coordination required between the existing ports in Yeosu
and the users of the new harbor complex. A fishery harbor advisor would be
needed to work on fish and truck traffic movements within the harbor complex,
to establish a schedule of fees and landing charges, and to assist on general
administrative work. A marine advisor experienced in marine traffic control
would provide assistance in off-shore safety regulations of vessels, supervi-
sion of fleet servicing and bunkering facilities, preparation of marine charts,
compilation of harbor dues and registration of vessels. He will also advise
in port expansion plans and development of access channels.
5.        Technical Assistance for Water Supply.  Consultants' services would
be required to develop a program involving the identification of short-term
improvements that would maximize use of existing water supply facilities and
provide advice on operational and technical matters. The water supply study



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
would examine present operations, maintenance, management (including pricing)
and training practices.  A program would be prepared which wou.Liludcl.a 
(i) rehabilitation and ii      mnsoexs gsourcsof water supply and
water treatment plants, (ii) expansion of the distribution system for in-
dustrial, commercial and domestic water supplies to serve new areas of urban
development, (iii) improvements in technical standards of water works oper-
ations and maintenance, (iv) reduction in unaccounted for water in ,the
existing networks, (v) improvements in management standards, and (vi) im-
provements in staff training.-
6.        Feasibility Studies of Selected Projects.  Consultants' services
are also required for feasibility studies and the preparation of selected
projects to be identified in the UNDP Phase II Study and in studies undertaken
by MOC. The consultants' tasks in these specific studies would include the
preparation of plans for drainage, sewerage and night soil disposal.
-    Drainage and Sewerage
Develop plans for sewerage and storm water drainage,
prepare a staged construction program and, where appropriate,
undertake preliminary engineering studies and cost estimates
for the first construction stage.
-    Night Soil Disposal
Prepare a program aimed at immediate improvements in the
disposal of human wastes, investigate low-cost solutions
for treatment and disposal of human wastes, and prepare
preliminary engineering studies and cost estimates for
the next construction stage.
Terms of reference for these studies will be prepared by the Gwangju Regional
Development Unit.



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 13
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Financial Arrangements
A. Project Financing Plan
1.          The overall financing plan for the project is shown below:
Project Financiog Plan
=    xi2LACD                            US$ mifliom
Sourc, of Funds                 Source of Funds
Total    ak      3omit.   City of    Total   Bank    Oov'at.  City of
Project Comt           Cost A   Loan    C.)at'bn.  Sunchoon   Cost /  Loan  Cait'bn.  Suncheon
Bousdii Sites & Jervices    2,418.17  831.93  1,586.24  -   6.05   2.08       3.97
io.u Fishery Harbor
Complex              h,860.81 3,699.65  1,161.16  -       12.15   9.25      2.90      -
Sncheon City Xark.t    4L94.25  296.55    -      197.70     1.23   0.714       -      0.19
Access Roeds           1,526.74  771.87    754.87  -        3.82   1.93       1.89      -
Technical Aisistancs    700.00  l4oo.oo    300.00  -        1.75   1 .00      0.75      -
Total             9,999.97 6,000.00  3,802.27   197.70    25.00  15.00    9.51    0.49
l TotsX coat n      th perce and physical contingency.
(a)  The Bank loan to the Government of Korea would be W 6,000
million (US$15.0 million) or about 60% of total project
costs. About W 3,700 million for the Fishery Harbor Complex,
W 772 million for the access roads, and W 400 million for
technical assistance will be allocated through the Central
Government Budget to MOC for Project execution and implementa-
tion. About W 832 million for the Housing Sites & Services,
and W 297 million for the Suncheon City Market will be
channelled by the Central Government (Ministry of Finance)
through subsidiary Loan Agreements to the cities of Gwangju,
Yeosu, Mogpo and Suncheon.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 13
(b) The Government of Korea would provide W 3,802 million
(US$9.51 million) or about 38% of the total project costs.
About W 1,161 million for the Fishery Harbor Complex,
W 755 million for the access roads, and W 300 million
for technical assistance will be allocated through the
Central Government Budget to MOC for Project execution and
implementation. About W 1,586 million will be provided
for the Housing Sites & Services, part of which (about
W 967 million) will be in the form of Korea Housing Bank
(KHB) loans to the cities.
(c)  The City of Suncheon would provide W 198 million (US$0.49
million) or about 2% of the total project costs, as equity
capital for the Suncheon City Market.
B. Housing Sites and Services
2.        General.  The total cost for these components is estimated at about
W 2,418.17 million including contingencies. MOC would carry out the con-
struction and upon completion, the sites would be turned over to the cities
for sale to occupants. Funds for the construction of low-cost housing (not
financed under the project) would be channelled from the Korea Housing Bank
(KHB) through the cities to low- and middle-income site occupants. The cities
would collect payments on the housing construction loans from the low- and
middle-income site occupants and pass them on to KHB.
3.        The Government.  The cost of off-site infrastructure, community
facilities, green areas, and engineering, although allocable to the Government,
would be paid by the cities. However, the Government would assume a pro rata
share of the cities' debt service payments equivalent to that portion of the
cities' loans corresponding to the costs of these items. The total Government
indebtedness would be W 1,062 million and would be distributed as follows:
Government Loan Obligation
City                            (W Million)
Yeosu                               292.627
Mogpo                               340.620
Gwangju                             429.057
1,062.304
The proportion of the Government's share of the loans would initially be 44%.
The Government's share would then increase during site construction as the
cities periodically transfer all payments (down payments, monthly payments,
cash sales) received from lot purchasers. (See Table 2).



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 13
Allocation of Sites and Services Costs
4.        The Cities.  The full cost of land and the costs of site preparation
and on-site infrastructure would be charged to the cities. The cities would
then charge the site occupants a lot price sufficient to recover these costs.
The financial arrangements between the cities and the Government would require
that the cities commence repayment of any loan obligation for the above costs
only after all construction is completed. The terms of the financial
obligations would be as follows:
(a) no interest would be charged until the construction of sites
is completed;
(b) during the period of site construction, the cities would pass
on to the Government on a quarterly basis all payments (down
payments, monthly payments, and cash sales) received from
purchasers of the lots;
(c) when construction of the sites is completed, the cities would
repay the Government a sum equal to the expenditures incurred
by GRDU on behalf of the cities for site preparation and
development less the aggregate of lot purchaser payments
passed on to the Government during construction;
(d) arrearages and bad debts would be borne by the cities;
(e) the cities would retain title to the sites until site occupants
have paid in full. All resales of 35 py and 50 py lots shall
be subject to approval by the Urban Project Units within a
period of five years from the date of signing of the corresponding
loans.
Expenditures for the construction and development (including land acquisition)
of sites not covered by the Government loan would be provided by the Korea
Housing Bank. KHB loan would cover: (i) the cost of land acquisition; and
(ii) that part of the cost of civil works and engineering consultants' services
not financed by the Government loan. The terms of repayment would be over
a period of 15 years with a 3 year grace period at a rate of interest of 8%
per annum for the KHB loan and over a period of 25 years with a grace period
of 7 years at the rate of interest of 8% per annum for the Government loan.
The projected city cash flow statements in constant 1974 prices for the three
housing sites and services components are in Table 2 (lots only).
5.        The Site Occupants:  The sale prices for the housing sites are based
on the allocation formula outlined in Table 1. Low- and medium-income house-
holds who are expected to occupy the 35 and 50 py lots would pay a lot price
equal to the allocated cost whereas high-income households would be charged
a price 30% above the allocated cost (see Table 1). The 30% premium on the
70 py lots reflect closely the market value of improved lots as appraised
by the Korea Appraisal Board.



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 13
6.        A 20% down payment on the lot purchase would be required from
households purchasing the 35 py lots and a 50% down payment would be required
from households purchasing the 50 py lots. However, about 40% of the 35 py
purchasers would have initial debt service payment up to 15% lower than those
required under constant monthly payments provided that subsequent debt payment
would increase over time to meet the full amount of the purchasers' debt
obligations. The repayment terms on the loan for the balance would be 12%,
15 years. The 70 py lots would be sold on a cash basis only. The 12% interest
charged project beneficiaries is 4% higher than the present rate for public
housing in Korea and the rate which the Government is charging the cities for
the development of sites. This 4% interest spread and the 30% surcharge on
buyers of the 70 py lots would help the cities meet the attendant administrative
and default expenses without undue strain on their own finances.
7.        Financing for the cost of housing construction for low- and middle-
income site occupants would be made available by the Korea Housing Bank,.
through the cities. The average construction costs for the low-income housing
to be built on the 35 py lot is estimated at W 605,000 for the 12 py house
built by self-help and W 903,000 for the 15 py house built by a contractor.
For low-income site occupants who choose to build their house with help from
contractors, KHB would finance up to 80% of the cost, through the city. The
repayment terms for the site occupants would be 12% and 15 years. It is
expected that two-fifths of all the houses on the 35 py lots will be of the
self-help variety. The housing cash flow is given in Table 3.
8.        To afford the high housing cost in Korea, more than one household
usually shares a house. An extensive housing survey carried out in the
region in 1973 and also in 1974 confirms this practice.
Monthly Charges
9.        A low-income household desiring to construct a 12 py (40.6 m )
house on a 35 py lot would experience the following monthly charges assuming
the following:
(a) the 20% down payment on the lot has been met;
(b) the 20% down payment on the house has been met;
(c) the balance on lot would be repaid in 15 years at 12%;
(d) the balance on the housing would be repaid in 15 years
at 12%;
(e)  the occupant builds with the help of a contractor but
provides family labor; and
(f) initial debt service payments are 15% below face value.
All numbers are based on the 1973 survey, unless otherwise indicated.



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 13
Basic Charges                        W 000                         US$
Yeosu     Mogpo      Gwangju   Yeosu      Mogpo      Gwangju
Land Development    5.32        5.01       4.93      13.31      12.53     12.32
Water                0.69       0.69       0.58       1.73       1.73       1.45
Sewerage and
Waste Disposal    0.29        0.29       0.43       0.73       0.73      1.08
Electricity /a       1.00       1.00       0.50       2.50       2.50       1.25
7.30      6.99        6.44      18.27     17.49      16.10
Housing              5.03       5.03        5.03     12.58      12.58      12.58
12.33     12.02       11.47      30.85     30.07      28.68
/a   Based on the 1974 Survey.
10.       These monthly charges have been estimated for 1976 when some housing
construction would be completed. Assuaing that low-income households can
devote no more than 25% of their monthly incomes to housing and utilities,
over 80% of all households would have sufficient incomes to afford a house
on a 35 py lot. If the calculation is adjusted to compensate for the lower
average income in Gwangju region, households with incomes just above the
20th percentile in the income distribution curve would be reached (Table 1,
Annex 5).
C. Suncheon City Market
11.       The total cost of the market would be about W 494 million including
both physical and price contingencies. About 40% or W 198 million would be
provided by the city of Suncheon as equity capital. MOC would construct the
market and turn it over to the city which would then have to repay 60% of
the cost (W 296 million) over 25 years at 8% with 7 years grace on the re-
payment of the principal. The market's cash flow statement in constant 1974
prices for the market is given in Table 4. The financial rate of return
is about 19% in constant 1974 prices.
12.       Expenditures.  In addition to the debt service payments, the fol-
lowing expenditures have been considered:



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 13
(a) Administration: Five percent of long run gross operating
revenues excluding deposits plus payroll expenditures of
W 2.88 million in 1977 and increasing to 4.38 million by
1982.
(b) Utilities: W 1.57 million per year in 1974 prices. These
charges are for the five day and daily markets. Shops in
the main building would be individually responsible for
payment of their utility cost.
(c)  Repairs and Maintenance:  Annual expenditures of 2% of
the development costs, excluding land and off-site infra-
structure costs.
13.       Revenues.  Revenues would be derived mainly from the following
sources:
(a) Monthly rentals from users of shop and storage space in
the market buildings and the sheltered area;
(b) initial deposits remitted by the storekeepers at the time
of the rental application;
(c) daily rentals paid by stallkeepers and peddlers for the
use of the daily market and five-day markets;
(d) other income, from events such as circuses and special
shows (not considered here).
The following monthly rent will be charged:
Area (py)    Rent/py (W)
Daily necessities market - first floor        183.1         1,100
second floor      183.1          900
Fish market - one floor                       261.5         1,100
Grain market - one floor                      627.7         1,100
Sheltered market                              499             500
14.       It is common practice for shopkeepers to pay a deposit to the
landlord at the time space is rented.  This deposit is usually sizeable, and
is often used by the landlord to repay a portion of the capital costs of the
building. In the case of the city market, the deposit will not be refundable.
However, a shopkeeper who vacates his premises collect * negotiated deposit
from the new lessee. Deposits to be collected would average about W 72,000
per pyong in the buildings and W 24,000 for the sheltered area.



ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 13
15.       The revenues derived from the market yards are based on the
following:
five-day market           2,709 pyong; used as a five-day market
every fifth day with rents of W 60
per pyong per day
daily market              3,000 pyong; with rents W 50 per pyong
per day; the market is assumed to operate
for 360 days in a year, and 90% collection
efficiency is assumed.
16.       The following occupancy rate is expected:
1977     1978    1979       1980      1981
Buildings
first floor    55%       95%      100%      100%      100%
second floor   45%       85%      100%      100%      100%
Sheltered Market    50%       70%       90%       100%     100%
Daily and Five-Day  25%       45%       65%        85%     100%
Market
D. Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex
17.       The fishery harbor complex consists of the port, fishery harbor
facilities and industrial site. Upon completion of construction, the
harbor complex would be turned over to the Office of Fisheries - a govern-
ment department.
18.       Expenditures.  The project expenditures would comprise operation
and maintenance costs of harbor infrastructure and civil works, which include
payroll, utilities, repairs and maintenance plus administration expenses.
Operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 5% of the original cost of
port infrastructure and civil works including contingencies and professional
services.
19.       Revenues.  The project revenues would be derived from (a) the sale
and development charges of serviced land in the fishery industries zone;
(b) lease rents for the use of the harbor land, buildings and equipment; and,
(c) landing and embarkation charges from fishing boats. The cash flow table
(Table 5) shows that the revenues are sufficient to cover the cost of
operation and maintenance and that the cash surplus would be turned over to
the national government.



ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 13
20.       For city-owned land of 17,640 py, a net area of 14,000 py would
be sold at the average price of W 50,000 per pyong (the average market price
of similar land located in the old port proper is W 100,000 per pyong as of
April 1974).
21.       For already occupied land of 9,160 py by private concerns in the
industrial area, a development charge for the infrastructural services will
be made at W 10,000 per pyong.
Year                 Total Revenues -
(W million)
1977                      30.5
1978                      30.5
1979                      30.6
/1   Private owners will be required to pay development charges (betterment
levy) in equal payment over the three-year period (1977-79).
22.       Lease rental revenues from harbor storage area, buildings and
equipment consists of:
(a)  Annual lease rents from the storage area of 5,000 py within
the port at a base rental of W 6,000 per pyong, which
is equivalent to one half the prevailing rental within
the old port.
Year      Space Available (py)       Annual Rate (W/py)    Revenues (W million)
1977              5,000                   6,000                    30.0
1978              5,000                   6,000                    30.0
2025              5,000                   6,000                    30.0
(b) Rents from market, leasable buildings and equipment
at an annual base rental of W 38.6 million.
23.       At present, a landing fee of W 650 per ton of catch landed and a
base embarkation charge of W 5 per gross tonnage of fishing vessels a day
are being collected at the old port which would also be imposed in the new
port.



SE0NOARY CITIES RUIIONAL PROJECT
/1
Land DLveloent Cost  and Household Loan  bligzations
for the Housing Sites nd Services Commwnent
(W 000)
YEOSU                                NOGPO                              GWANGJU
Directly                             Directly                           Directly
Chargeabl!                           Chargeable                         ChargsabX2e
Total Cost                Cost A    Total Cost                 Coat /2   Total Cost                     2
Land Development Coat
Land                                           107,940                 103,434       55,760                 53,990       220,650              214,353
Site preparation                              118,023                  118,023      161,580                161,580        37,540               37,540
On -site Infrastructure                        183,397                 183,397      241,670                241,670       240,110              240,110
Off-aite Infrastructure                        244,210                    -         278,770                   -          370,700
Green areas                                      1,660                    -           1,430                   -            1,880
Co unity Facilities                                           -                       7,130
Profeasional Services                           42,250                    -          53,290                   -           50,180
Sub-total                                697,480                 404,854      799,630                457,240       921,060              492,003
Cost Der py to be sold (W)                        31,510                   18,290       30,067                 17,193        31,690               16,928
Cost. Sa&l Price, Financial Obligation per lot   35 Dy lot 50 py lot    70 py lot    35 PY lot  50 py lot  70 py lot        35 Dy lot 50 Py lot  70 DY lot
Number of lots                                    395        92           53          475          121        56            495        134        72
Chargeable cost of lot to site occupants 3        640       915        1,280          602          860     1,204            592        846    1,185
Sale price per lot A                              640       915        1,664          602          860     1,565            592        846     1,540
Downpaynent /5                                    128       458        1,664          120          430    1A565             118        423    1.540
Loan obligation per lot                           512              -     -            4832 OF                               74          M23      -
/1 Coat includes both price and physical contingencies.
I Site occupants will pay for land, site preparation, and on-sits infrastructure costs.
Derived from "cost per py to be sold" above.
The 35 py lot and 50 py lot will be sold at cost;  the 70 ply lot 30% above cost.
Downpayment: 20% for 35 py lot, 50% for 50 py lot, 70 py lots will be sold for cash only.



ANNEX 8
?age 10 of 13
Table 2
KORF.A
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Cash Flow Statements for the Housing Sites and Services Components (Lots only)
P eoso , (M o °aind ).san Jo
1975             1976          1977              1978             1979                 1980               1990
Revenue from tot S.a.
35 py lot /1                                         _              21.558         30.884            40.249           28.511              29.175                4.924
50 py lot                                           -_               14.718        17.318            18.906            6.173               6.173                1.007
70 py lot 7                                                            _           44.928            '13.264            _                    _                   _
mross Revenue                        -              36.276         93.130           102.419           34.684              35.348                5.931
Operating Enpense L4                  -               5.100          5.100             5.100            5.100               5.100               5.100
llet Revenue                          _              31.176        88.030            97.319           29.584               30.248               0.831
loan Re.syaee-t -  KHE                                  -               5.580        22.319            22.319           37.0P1               37.021              37.021
-  MOF                                                   -              -                 -              33.479              33.479              44.654
:ross Loan Repayments                                  -               5.580         22.319            22.319           70.500              70.500              81.675
}overn'nent Pro Rats Share of Loan Repay:-oc-5         -               2.344         10.267            12.722           48.645              48.645              56.356
/6
Transfer to .overnment by City                          -              27.940        75.978             87.722             -                   -                   -
Pity Net Loan Repayments                                -               3.236        12.052             9.597           21.855               21.855              25.319
Annual Cash Surplus                                     -                -              _                 -               7.729               8.393             (24.488)
Cunulati-e CaSh Position                                -                -              -                 -               7.729              16.122              30.240
Revenue from Lot Sale
35 py lot /1                                          -              21.588        34.730            45.616           32.268               32.939               5.626
50 py let 7h                                         -              17.831         20.988            23.974            7.639               7.639                1.295
70 py lot 7r                                          -                            43.820             43.820
Gross Revenue                         -              39.419        99.538           113.410           39.907               40.578               6.921
Operating Expense                     - _             5.240          5.240             5.240            5.240               5.240               5.240
Net Revenue                           -              34.179        94.298           108.170           34.667               35.338               i.681
Loan RepaYment -  KHB                                   -               6.397        25.588             25.538           42.443              42.443              42.443
-  MOF                                  -                -              -                 -              38.382              38.382              51.193
Gross tomn Repayments                                   -               6.397        25.588             25.588           80.825              80.825              93.636
'-overnMent Pro Rats Share of Loan Repayment            -              30.533        12.026            14.585            55.769              55.769              64.609
/6
Transfer to to.-ernent by City                          -              30.715         80.736           97.167              -                   -                   -
City Net Loan Repayment                                 -               3.646         13.562            11.003           25.056              25.056              29.027
Annual Cash Surplus                                     -                -              -                                 9 9.611            10,282              (27.346)
Cumulative Cash Position                                _       -                       -                 -               9.611              19.893              43.254
G,WARGJU
Revenue from Lot Sale
35 py lot /1                                          -              22.168        35.661             46.685           33.072              33.761               9.187
50 py let 79                                          -              19.734        23.227            265568             8.323               8.323               1.3687
70 pY lot 73                                          -                -           55.440            55.440              -                   -                   -
Gross Revenue                         -              41.902       114.328           127.693            41.395              42.o84              10.554
Operating Expense                     -               5.280          5.280             5.250            5.280               5.280               5.280
Net Revenue                           -              36.622       109.048           122.413            36.115              36.804               5.274
Loan Repayment -  KHB                                 -               7.365         29.459            29.459           48.864              48.864              48.864
-  MOF                                -                -              -                 -              44.226              44.226              58.987
'-s Loan Repayment                                      -               7.365        29.459             29.459           93.090              93.090             107.851
Government Pro Rats Share Of Loan Repayment             -               3.462         14.730            17.675           67.025              67.025              77.653
Transfer to lovernment by City                          -              32.719         94.319           110.629             -
City net Loan Repayment                                 -               3.903         14.729            11.784           26.065              26.065              30.198
Annual Cash Gurplus                                     _-                              -                 -              10.050              10.739             (24.924)
Cumulative Cash Position                                _                _              _                 _              10.050              20.789              53.867
/i   Terma: 20% down and the remainder in equal monthly inatallmenta over 15 yearn at 12%.  Initial debt service payments may be 15% below
reqoired payments for some buyers.  One-third vill be o-upied in 1976, one-third in 1977, and the rest in 1978.
Terms: 506 down and the remainder in equal monthly installments over 15 years at 12%. One-third will be occupied in 1976, one-third in
1977, and the reet in 1978.
3   Terms - cash sale only.  One-half will be occupied in 1977 and the rest in 1978.
SIncludes Administration and Default expenses.  Default empensee at 3% of lng-ruan gross income.
a For off-_ite infrastructure, community facilitien and green areas, engineering.
Daring eonstruction city shall transfer all payments received from lot purchasers.



ANNEX 8
pTagel a  f 13
KC!4EA                                        Table 3
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJBCT
Cashflow for Rousing to be built on Serviced Lots
(in W '000)
1976            1977             1978            1979             1990
YEOSU
Revenues fran Housing Construction
12 py houses i                                    7,213           11,215          14,453           10,109          1,848
15 py houses                                     16,393           26,861          35,236           25,125          4,188
18 py houses 73                                  17,419           20.502          22.388            7.321          1.194
Gross Revenue                                41,025          58,578           72,077           42,555          7,230
Operating Expense
Default - 3%  A                                   1,277            1,277           1,277            1,277          1,277
A-iinistration - 1%  /5                             410           _586                721            2426              72
1,687           1,863            1,998           1,703           1,349
Net Revenue                                          39,338           56,715          70,079           40,852          5,881
Payments to KHB  /6                                   1,990           11,939           19,857          39,470          39,470
Annual Cash Surplus                                  37,348           44,776          50,222            1 ,382        -33,589
MOlP0
Revenues from Housing Construction
12 py houses                                      8,574           13,331          17,511           12,149          2,274
15 py houses  /                                  19,713           32,301          43,650           30,213          5,036
18 py houses                                     22,476           26,455          30,219            9,629          1,632
Gross Revenue                                50,763           72,087          91,380           51,991          8,942
Operating kpensxe
Default - 3%  A                                   1,560            1,560           1,560            1,560          1,560
Administration - 1%  /5                             50               721              914             520              89
2,068           2,281            2,h44           2,080           1,649
Net Revenue                                          48,695           69,806          88,906           49,911           7,293
Payments to KHB  /6                                   2,415           14,491          24,193           48,210         48,210
Annual Cash Surplus l46,280                                           55,315          64,713            1,701         -40,917
GVANGJU
Revenues from Housing Construction
12 py houses  /                                   8,983           13,966          18,187           12,664          2,345
15 py houses  /2                                 20,543           33,661          44,156           31,485          5,248
18 py houses  13                                 25,285           29,762          32,761           10,663          1,751
Gross Revenue                                54,811           77,389          95,104           54,812          9,344
Operating Fxpense
Default - 3%  A                                   1,644            1,644           1,644            1,644           1,644
Administration - 1%  E                              548              774             951              548              93
2,192           2,418            2,595           2,192           1,737
Net Revenue                                          52,619           74,971          92,509           52,620           7,607
Payments to KB  /6                                    2,556           15,337           25,541          50,808          50,808
Annual Cash Surplus                                  50,o63           59,634           66,968           1,812         -43,201
/L  Terms: 20% down and the remainder in equal monthly payments over 15 years at 12% interest.
Initial debt service payments may be 15 lower for some buyers.
2  Termss  20% down and the remainder in equal monthly payments over 15 years at 12%.
Termst 50% dowm and the remainder in equal monthly payments over 15 years at 12%.
7 Based on 3% long-run gross revenue.
Based on 1% of gross revenue.
Cities responsible to pay KHB for site occupant Housing Loans. Terms amortized over 15 years with 3 years grace, at 8%.



SECOND CY ITIES R3I2tIAL PIOJECT
Cash Flow Suncheon City Karket
(W 'cOo)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1989    1990    1999    2003
Revenue
Monthly Rental                     -        _      5,174  17,230   18,825  19,124  19,124   19,124   19,124   19,124   19,124  19,124
Daily Rental                       _        _      7,540  27,1140  39,200  51,260  60,303  60,303   60,303   60,303   60,303  60,303
Deposits                                          56,360  18,616    8,189     -        -        -        -        _        -       -
Gross Revenue                                     69,074  82,986   66,214  70,384  79,427  79,427   79,427  79,427   79,427  79,427
OperatinR Costs
Administration                                     6,850    6,850    6,850    7,750    7,750    8,350    8,350   8,350    8,350    8,350
Utilities                                          1,570    1,633    1,698    1,766    1,837   1,837 1,837   1,837    1,837    1,837
Maintenance                                        2,633    5,266    5,266   5,266   5,266   5,266    5,266    5.266    5.266   5,266
Gross Operating Costs                             11,053   13,749  13,814  14,782  14,853  15,453  15,453  15,453  15,453  15,453
Net Revenue Before Debt Service         -        -    58,021   69,237   52,400  55,602   64,574  63,974   63,974  63,974   63,974   63,974
Debt Service                                            11,862   23,724  23,7214  23,724  23,724   23,724  23,724  31,642   31,642       -
Net Revenue After Debt Service          _        -    46,159   45,513  28,676   31,878   40,850   40,250  40,250  32,332   32,332   63,974
Ho co



KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Direct Public Revenues and Expenditures Statement
for Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex
(W Million)
1974     1975      1976      1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982      1995      1996-2003
Revenues
Sale of Industrial Land                            -        -       100.0    100.0    150.0    150.0    150.0    150.0           -         -            -
Development Charges                                -        -         -        30.5      30.5     30.6       -         -         -         -            -
Lease Rents from Harbor Land                       -        -         -        30.0      30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0         30.0
Lease Rents:  Building and Equipment               -        -         -        38.6      38.6     38.6      38.6      38.6      38.6      38.6         38.6
Landing Fee Revenues                               -        -         -       119.3    135.9    152.6    169.2    185.8    204.3    204.3             204.3
Embarkation Fees                                   -        -         -        62.5      68.8      75.6     83.2      91.5    100.7    100.7          100.7
Total Revenues                                          -       100, 0    380.9    453.8    477.4    471.0        95.9                373.6 373.6  373,6
Expenditures
Construction  L1                               65.08   1,229.34  2,074.36  389i53         -         -        -         -         -         -            -
Operation and Maintenance                          -         -        -        82.58   165.15   165.15   165.15   165.15   165.15   165.15            165.15
Surplus Remitted to Government                 -65.08  -1,229.34 -1,974.36  -91.21   288.65   312,25   305.85   330.75   208.45   208,45              208,45
/     Cost includes physical contingencies.
Ct P
VI I. m0
0  
n   O



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 5
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Cost Recovery and Pricing
1.        The recovery of cost for the project will come mainly from
project beneficiaries and from government charges, fees and taxes. The
sources from which project cost items would be recovered are:
Total Cost                Recovery Source
Project Components         US$ (Million) % of Total Cost       and Percentages
Housing Sites & Services       6.05            24.2       Beneficiaries, 56%
Government charges
& taxes, 44%.
Fishery Harbor Complex        12.15            48.6       Beneficiaries, from
sale, lease rents,
fees
Government from taxes
Suncheon City Market           1.23             4.9       Beneficiaries - 100%
(from deposits, rents,
and special fees)
Roads                          3.82            15.3       Government, user
charges
Technical Assistance           1.75             7.0       Government
Total               25.0            100
Cost Allocation
2.        In the case of housing sites and services, the site occupants are
charged a proportionate share of the total cost of land, site preparation
and on-site infrastructure. The Government bears the cost of off-site
infrastructure, community facilities, green areas and engineering which it
will recover through beneficiary charges and taxes. The road user and
electricity charges are sufficient for complete cost coverage but the water
and sewerage/drainage charges are low. Among the objectives of the water,
sewerage and drainage study included in the project (the action program) is
to determine the actual capital and operating costs of water supply, sewerage



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5
and drainage in the four cities and to propose revised rates. Rate increases
should await these proposals. The study will take into account the fact
that the on-site infrastructure costs are paid directly by the site occu-
pants at the time of the site purchase -- double charging will not take
place. Some of the relevant taxes from which the Government would recover
project costs are:
(a)  A building materials tax, averaging 3% of the total
construction cost, is to be charged on all housing
construction on the sites provided through the
project. The revenues from this tax will go to the
national Government.
(b) A local acquisition tax levied on the houses to be
constructed will be collected by the city governments.
It amounts to 1% of the construction cost.
(c) A local property tax is levied on the value of land
and buildings. The rates are 0.2% of the value of
the land and 0.3% of the value of the house.
(d) A local city planning tax will be imposed on the three
housing sites and services areas in the project, at a
rate of 0.2% of the value of land and houses.
(e) A local community facility tax will also be imposed on
the housing sites and services components, at a rate
of 0.06% of the value of the houses.
(f) A national tax specifically aimed at capturing some
of the increases in the value of land and housing is
the so-called real property speculation check tax,
which in effect is a capital gains tax (at a 50% rate).
(g) A local tax aimed at capturing some of the benefits
derived from public investments is the urban development
tax, established by the Urban Development Act. It is a
betterment levy imposed on those who benefit from road
and drainage investments. About 50% of the investment
cost is usually recovered through this tax.
3.        For the fishery harbor complex, an analysis of the incremental
public revenues and expenditures generated by the project component was
carried out to determine the cost coverage. Revenues from the operation
of the harbor facilities plus identifiable public charges are more than
sufficient to cover proposed investments.
4.        The sale price for the industrial sites (W 50,000 per pyong) is
set substantially above the development cost to reflect the benefits these
sites will derive from their location close to the port. The incremental



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
income taxes generated by the port, mostly from boat owners, will go to the
national government. The vessel tax, 0.3% of the value of the boat, is a
local property tax and goes to the city where the boat is registered (in
this case mostly to Yeosu).
5.        The public revenues and expenditures directly related to the
Suncheon city market, excluding off-site infrastructure, show a satis-
factory financial rate of return (18%).
Water Charges
6.        Revenues from water charges barely cover operating costs in the
four cities. All four cities use a block tariff system, with a minimum
monthly charge which is fixed up to a certain consumption level -- above
this level a unit price, which in most cases increases with the consumption,
is applied. The minimum monthly charge for domestic water is W 110 (US$0.28)
in Suncheon, W 250 (US$0.62) in Gwangju, and W 300 (US$0.75) in Mogpo and
Yeosu. When the consumption exceeds 10 m3 per month, an additional charge
per m3 is levied -- starting at W 10 (US$0.025) in Suncheon, W 25 (US$0.062)
in Gwangju, and W 30 (US$0.075) in Mogpo and Yeosu, and increasing in Gwangju
and Migpo to a level of about W 50 (US$0.125) when the consumption exceeds
100 m per month. The average household, with about 8 persons, consumes
about 23 m3 per month but more than one household usually share one meter
(outlet), resulting in relatively high marginal rates.
7.        Available cost estimates for construction and operation of water
supply systems in Gwangju region are unreliable (commercial accounting
procedures are not used) and one of the purposes of the proposed water,
sewerage and drainage study project component is to evaluate these estimates
and propose modifications in the rate structures. Substantial additional
revenues could possibly also be generated by reducing the leakage which now
approaches 50%.
Sewerage Charges
8.        Tlhree systems for the collection and disposal of human waste are
used in the four cities:  water-borne sewerage, municipal "night soil"
collection, and individually arranged nighlt soil collection. In the latter
case the household enters into an agreement with a local farmer who regularly
collects the night soil and uses it for fertilizing -- typically, no pay-
ments are involved in this case.  In Gwangju, only about 10% of tlhe house-
holds have the night soil collection arranged in this manner.
9.        'Iunicipal night soil collection takes place once a week.  The
charge is WJ 15 per basket (18 liters) in Gwangju and W 10 per basket in
the thlree other cities. 1/  ' household of eight produces about 29 baskets
per month (522 liters), giving an average monthly charge per hiousehold of
1/   In Seoul, the rate is W 15 per basket, with collection twice every week
in the central parts of the city.



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
W 435 in Gwangju and W 290 in the other cities. These charges cover the
collection cost. In Gwangju, about 90% of the households have their night
soil removed this way -- about 450 tons per day are transported with 35
handcarts and 20 trucks.
Road User Charges
10.       Road user charges in Korea exceed expenditures on road construction
and maintenance by a substantial margin both at the local and at the national
level. For instance, in 1971 total revenues amounted to about W 59.9 billion,
whereas only W 31.2 billion were expended. The major taxes are: fuel taxes,
a transport tax levied on public passenger transport on roads, and a com-
modity tax (going to the national government); and a vehicle tax, a vehicle
acquisition tax and a registration fee (going to the provincial, city and
county governments). The local taxes are particularly high and form a sub-
stantial portion of local government revenues.
11.       The fuel tax rates are 200% on gasoline and 10% on diesel fuel --
an increase of the latter is under consideration. On public passenger
transport the tax rates are 20% on taxi fares, and 10% on bus fares. The
annual vehicle tax varies with the type, size and weight of the vehicle,
but for a private automobile it is about 25% of the purchase price --
W 128,000 to W 330,000 (US$320 to US$825) for cars with 4 cylinders or more,
for instance. These high rates exert an effective restraint on the use of
private automobiles. The acquisition tax is 1% of the purchase price of
the vehicle. The registration fees vary but are of the order of magnitude
of W 6,000 (US$15) per year. In the special city of Seoul and in Busan the
tax rates are double the above.
Electricity Charges
12.       Electricity charges generally cover capital and operating costs.
Because of rising fuel cost, the Korea Electric Company (KECO) is reviewing
its rates which were in effect since December 1, 1973 (see Table 1).



ANEX 9
Page-5-of 5
Table1
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Electricity Charges /
Domestic
Basic charge (W/month)                                             163.88
Energy charge (W/kwh)                                               15.53
Industrial (manufacturing)
I:  Contracted demand 4 500 kw, supply voltage ' 20 kv
Demand charge (W/kw, month)
- 50  kw                                          184
50 - 500 kw                                          146
500 +     kw                                          109
Energy charge (W/kwh)
- 90  kwh/kw of contracted demand                   9.49
90 - 180         it     it       It "                  6.50
180 - 360  It    t        "t                            4.68
360 +        i,t ,        ,t       ,                    3.16
II: Contracted demand -' 500 kw, supply voltage = 20 kv
Demand charge (W/kw, month)
- 500 kw                                          152
500 +     "                                           10:1
Ener,y charge (lVkwh)
- 90 kwh/'kw of contracted demand                   9.49
90 - 180  ft  f"                it                     6.18
180 - 360       "ftt             it                     4.30
360 +          t"      t        It                     2.7).
III:  Contracted demand > 1,000 kw, supply voltage   150 kv
Demand charge (EVkw, month)                                 101
Energy charge (W'/kwh)
- 90 kwn/kw of contracted demand                    9.49
90 - 180        it     it "     t                      6.31
180 - 360  "     f "             if                     4.21
360 +            it    t  f      "                      2.70
Commercial and industrial (non-manufacturing)
I:  All contracted demand with supply voltage < 20 kv
Demand charge (W/kw, month)
- 50  kw                                          184
5  - 500                                             146
500 +      "                                          109
Energy charge (w/kwh)                                         9.49
II:  Contracted demand !500 kw, supply voltage > 20 kv
Demand charge (-AV/kw, month)
- 500 kw                                          152
500 +      "                                          101
Energy charge (wT/kwh)                                        9.49
III:  Contracted demand ' 1,000 kw, supply voltage >-150 kv
Demand charge (W/kw, month)                                 101
Energy charge ('4/kwh)                                         9.49
Agriculture
I:  Supply for irrigation and drainage pumping
Demand charge (Wi/kw,T, month)                               54
Energy charge (00kwh)                                         3.51
II:  Supply for heating in greenhouses, etc.
Demand charge (Wi/kw, month)                                150
Energy charge (w/kwh)                                         4 50
III:  Supply for other farming and breeding purposes
Demand charge (-J/kw, month)                                150
Energy charge (14kwh)                                         5.30
/1  As revised and effective on December 1, 1973.  The preceding rates had
been in effect since February 15, 1973.



ANNEX 10
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                              at End of Quarter
and Quarter                                    (US$ Million)
1975      III                                        0.14
IV                                        0.31
1976        I                                        2.02
II                                        3.76
III                                        5.51
IV                                        7.25
1977        I                                        9.04
II                                       10.47
III                                       11.90
IV                                       13.23
1978        I                                       13.63
II                                       13.74
III                                       13.90
IV                                       14.89
1979        I                                       15.00



ANNEX 11
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Supervision Requirements
1.        This would be the Bank's first urban-regional project in Korea.
Consequently, there are no precedents on which the number and frequency of
supervision missions can be based. While the services of local universities
and personnel would be used to monitor and evaluate a portion of the project,
namely the housing site and service subproject, the project is complex and
requires the coordination by the Ministry of Construction of a number of
participating agencies. In addition, a number of training programs are-
involved in the project, and require close supervision.
2.        As a result, supervision missions totaling about 100 man-weeks
are programmed between IBRD FY 1975 to FY 1978. These missions which include
time for report writing are planned to coincide with the preparation and
execution of key elements of the project.  The following is a summary of the
missions tentatively planned:
IBRD FYf975 - 20 man-weeks. For review of detailed engineering,
discussions on the appointment of consultants, prequalification
of contractors, assistance in the staffing of the fishery
harbor complex, and review of UNDP Phase II preliminary
proposals.
IBRD FY1976 - 28 man-weeks. For detailed discussions on consultants'
work program, commencement of project construction and progress,
review of the Gwangju Regional Development Unit staff, review
of the selection procedure for site occupants, and review of
training programs and procurement questions.
IBRD FY1977 - 28 man-weeks. Detailed discussions on project physical
progress and problems of implementation, supervision of con-
sultants' work, review of procedures for monitoring and evaluating
housing sites and services and review of engineering and
technical questions.
IBRD FY1978 - 24 man-weeks. Follow-up on progress of project
implementation, review oE work program of the GRDU.



ANNEX 12
Page  1 of 4
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Project Execution
1.        The Ministry of Construction (MOC), as Executing Agency, would be
responsible for project implementation. A Gwangju Regional Development
Unit - under MOC - would be established at the provincial level and be respon-
sible for overall supervision. Upon completion of the construction phase,
MOC would turn over the completed facilities to the following agencies for
operation and management.
Housing Sites and Services
2.        The lu _sing sites would be turned-over to-the-city a4ministrations
of Gwangju City, Mogpo and Yeosu for management, operation and maintenance.
Each, city would establish an Urban Project Unit (UPU) to be assisted by the
Korea Housing Corporation (KHC). 1/ The Urban Project Unit would be respon-
sible for selection of low-income occupants, the saIe'i-'Eserviced plots,
coordination of development of community facilities vwth overall city prQgrams,
facilitate loans for the purchase of serviced plots for low-income families,
and monitor the progress in the construction and implementation of the sub-
project. The Urban Project Unit would also be responsible (with the assist-
ance of KHC) for the supervision of construction of model housing units in
three cities using low-cost materials and family labor with a view to
demonstrate the feasibility of utilizing low-cost (minimum standards) methods
of construction under self-help schemes. These steps iivolve the following:
(a) During the site preparation period the KHC and the
UPU's would interview potential family settlers.
(b)  Criteria would be developed e.g. family income range
within 20th to 30th percentile of the 1976 income dis-
tribution curve willing to use family labor,
(c) KHC and UPU's would work out house design and the
procedure for construction - clearly showing elements
that will be self-help and elements that will be
contractor-built.
1/   In Suncheon, an Urban Project Unit would also be established although
no housing site and service project is being financed in the loan. The
Unit would be responsible for identification of potential projects and
also be responsible for monitoring progress in the implementation of
the city market subproject.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 4
(d) KHC and UPUs would assist beneficiaries to select suitable
contractor(s) for building parts of the house. KHC and UPUs
would also provide assistance in purchasing material (e.g.
cement, pipes, lumber, etc.);
(e) KHC and UPUs would keep record on costs, time, materials,
labor, etc.;
(f) Model houses would be displayed for three months -
during the selection of other potential settlers.
3.        The MOC"throug lthe GRDUV_would_eartex- mt0 z_a;_aaewith the
KHC to ~povide_mauagenient and supervisory ass istance.-to-eaah-of_ th&Urb
Proj~~3InJ~ts.  KHC's assistance ~"ld ±n¶~l11~e. but not necessarily be    j. ,
lfrttffed to:  review of site planning and detailed design of each of the
housing sites; disposition or sale of plots designated for low-, medium- and
high-income groups; construction of low-cost housing models in three cities
to demonstrate the feasibility of utilizing low-cost methods in self-help
schemes; advise the UPU's on financial management and accounting; set up
monitoring and evaluation standards and, supervise the construction of
low-income housing. As agreed with the MOC, the personnel to be assigned
by KHC will be under_the-s su_th__PrDjgartt2 _nager.  The main-                 .       I
tenance 6Trfacili s       4ieameh-of-the-housing sites would be the responsi-
bilit3rio, eaah.-.city to be carried out under,.,lts...normal maintenance operation.
4.        Ont-f-the-purposes--of-the-iousing sites and services projects.in
the three cities would be to provide the necessary feedback information,to
MOC ii'oY to reftne--treh housing policy in the course of implementing
programs.
5.        The GRDU would enter into a contract with the Seoul National
University and the Cheonam University to provide monitoring and evaluation
services to the cities during the course of the implementation of the
housing sites and services project.
6.        Monitoring would include:
(a) the development of baseline information gathered from
interviews of project applicants as well as information
from selected areas in each city;
(b) review of physical differences between the occupant's
former residence and proposed site;
(c) data on income and expenditure of households;
(d) periodic reports on the progress of essential infra-
structure and services;



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 4
(e) the extent to which purchases of construction materials
were made for self-help housing;
(f) extent of technical assistance received by site
occupants from the UPU's and the KHC;
(g) the rate of housing construction (including self-help);
(h) the location of housing sites vis-a-vis employment centers,
community facilities, and others;
(i) the effect of demonstration housing on household response
to utilize low-cost housing construction methods and pro-
posed designs;
(j)  the effectiveness of financial arrangements with respect to
terms, conditions and repayments.
7.        The monitoring of the above information and evaluation - based or
the objectives of the project - would be carried out at the beginning of
project implementation period, one year later, and at the conclusion of the
project implementation period or by closing date of the loan. Information
obtained from the project evaluation exercise would be used to determine
how close the objectives of the project were attained, and to provide the
necessary feedback to the MOC in consonance with the implementation of the
housing policy.
Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex
8.        Upon completion of construction, MOC would turn over the Yeosu
fishery harbor complex to the Office of Fisheries (OOF). The OOF would
appoint a harbor manager, an assistant manager for administration, a traffic
officer and a port engineer for planning and maintenance. The harbor manager-
would report directly to the Directorate-General of the Office of Fisheries.
The OOF has experience in the operation and management of over 60 fishery
ports in Korea. The harbor manager would also be responsible for the devel-
opment of the fishery industrial processing zone and the planning of the
future expansion of harbor facilities.
9.        The harbor management team would be assisted by qualified con-
sultants and supporting staff. The duties and responsibilities of the
proposed consultants are described in Annex 7.
Suncheon City Market
10.       The city of Suncheon, would be responsible for maintenance and
operation for the market facilities once completed. It is currently
responsible for the operation of existing city markets. The mayor would



ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 4
appoint a market manager who would be responsible for the operation and
management of the market including the collection of fees and licenses,
needed improvements, repayments of loan assumed to the central government
and for keeping separate accounts for the project.
Access Roads
11.       Upon completion, the access roads in the cities of Mogpo and Yeosu
would be turned over to the respective cities for operation and maintenance.
Technical Assistance
12.       The GRDU would be responsible for the conduct of studies, employ-
ment of consultants, and the development of an action program described in
more detail in Annex 7.



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 11
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Analysis
Housing Sites and Services
1.        In estimating the economic rates of return (ERR) for the housing
sites and services components, the costs and benefits with all housing
construction completed were considered over 30 years. Detailed cost estimates
for the types of housing to be constructed were obtained during appraisal.
The value of housing was assessed through a detailed survey carried out in
November/December 1973 in four cities.
2.        Costs.  The project costs allocable to the housing sites were
included with physical contingencies. These costs include land, site prepara-
tion, and on-site infrastructure. The cost of the land on which the commu-
nity facilities and green areas are located was omitted from the project
costs, as well as the cost of building these facilities. Their benefits were
also excluded from the project benefit stream.
3.        The land acquisition costs included in project costs reflect
reasonably well the value of the land in alternative uses. The wages for
construction workers reflect the labor situation in the region fairly well.
They have been used to quantify the labor costs for contractor-built hous-
ing. Self-help labor involved in the construction of 40.6 m2 units was
priced at wages for unskilled labor in Gwangju. The annual maintenance
costs for the houses have been estimated at 17 of construction cost.
4.        Benefits.  An imputed rental value of the housing to be constructed
was estimated and used as a measure of project benefits. Based on a housing
survey carried out in December 1973 and reviewed in August 1974, the annual
rental values per pyong of building area are assumed to be: W 27,500 in
Gwangju, W 22,000 in Mogpo and W 20,900 in Yeosu.
5.        At the end of the assumed project life (30 years), the full value
of the land is added to the benefit stream. Site preparation, infrastructure
and housing are assumed to have no remaining value at that time. Employment
effects, although not included in the calculation, was estimated separately
and is shown in Table 6.
6.        Rates of Return.  With the above assumptions, and given the cost
and benefit streams shown in Table 1, the ERR's for the three housing sites
and services components are: 22% for Gwangju, 19% for Mogpo and 17% for



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 11
Yeosu. A 15% cost overrun would reduce the ERR's to 21% for Gwangju, 18%
for Mogpo and 16% for Yeosu.
Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex
7.        Costs. All costs were included in the economic rate of return
analysis, with physical contingencies. The high land price, about W 7,000
per pyong, is a good indicator of the opportunity cost of the land which is
relatively flat, with good soil bearing capacity, and therefore suitable
for industrial use.
8.        Included in the component costs is also the cost of servicing
the land which will be developed into industrial and commercial sites and
sold.
9.        Benefits.  The following benefit streams have been identified
and quantified (Table 2): benefits from the industrial sites, from time
and fuel savings for the existing fishing fleet, from the fish catches of
an expanded fishing fleet (off-shore and deep sea), and from the various
facilities provided in the port.
10.       About 17,600 pyong (net) of industrial and commercial sites will
be developed as part of the project and sold, mainly to fish processing
industries, at prices which will be set at a level that reflects the high
value of the sites in this prime location, close to the port.
11.       At present, most fishing boats over 50 GT which are based in Yeosu,
land their catch in other ports, principally in Busan, in order to avoid
the congestion in the Yeosu port. By being able to land their catch in the
proposed new port, these boats would save operating costs, mainly fuel, as
well as time. The fuel savings would amount to about W 9 million per year.
The time savings would allow the boats to make several more fishing trips
per year and the net value of the additional catch has been estimated at
about W 60 million per year.
12.       The main benefits of the proposed port are derived from the ex-
pansion of fishing activities that it would permit. Several new boats are
already under construction in anticipation of the new port. It is estimated
that the catch landed in Yeosu, with the new port constructed, would increase
from about 74,000 tons in 1972 to about 231,000 tons by 1981, after which
year the catch has been assumed to remain constant. The total market value
of the catch unloaded in the port would increase from W 6,600 million in 1972
to about W 13,280 million by 1981.
13.       Finally, substantial additional benefits will be derived from the
use of specific port facilities, such as the auction market, ice-making
equipment and storage sheds. The present relatively low nrices for similar
facilities in Korea were used to quantify these benefits, resulting in an
annual value of about W 160 million by 1981.



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 11
14.       Rate of Return.  The cost and benefit streams (Table 2) discussed
above give an ERR of 33%. A 15% cost overrun would lower the rate to about
29%.
Suncheon City Mfarket
15.       Costs.  The costs of land acquisition, site preparation, on-site
infrastructure and buildings were included, with physical contingencies.
The purchase price for the land, W 1,900 per pyong reflects reasonably well
the value of the land in alternative uses. The annual maintenance cost
estimates are based on an assumed 3% of capital cost, excluding land. The
management cost estimates are based on the city's staffing proDosal for the
market.
16.       Benefits.  Surveys and analyses of rental values for existing stores
were carried out in late 1973. It was found that the quality of the structures
and the services provided are highly inadequate in these stores, particularly
from. the point of view of public health.
17.       A serious effort is now under way by the city to upgrade the present
markets and to induce improvements in private stores. The old Bookboo (North)
Market has been replaced by a new structure to be completed by November 1974.
The new market will have a floor area of 1,500 py built to modern standards.
A total of 307 stores would be provided at monthly rents of about W 1,000 per
pyong. In spite of this increase in rent, 537 approved applications were
received.
18.       The proposed new Namboo Market will have a more advantageous location
than the new Bookboo Market but, in order to be conservative, the same present
rent level of W 1,000 per pyong per month was used to quantify the benefits
from the store space that will be provided.
19.       An area of about 2,700 py would be provided for a 5-day market with
open stalls and about 3,000 py would be provided for a daily vegetable market,
half of which would be covered. An estimate of the benefits from these parts
of the proposed market component was obtained by applying W 60/py a day (the
average of the charge in the old market and the proposed charge in the new
market) to the 5-day market area every fifth day and W 50/py a day for the
daily market area. The utilization of these areas is assumed to increase
from 25% in 1977 to 100% in 1981.
20.       Rate of Return.  The proposed market component shows an ERR of 17%
with the above-mentioned cost and benefit streams (Table 3). A 15% construction
cost overrun would reduce the ERR to about 15%.



ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 11
Access Roads -
21.       Costs.  The costs of land acquisition, compensation, and construc-
tion were included, with physical contingencies. In the cases where reloca-
tion of families was involved, interviews were carried out to ensure that
the compensations to be paid reflect the economic and social costs involved.
22.       Benefits.  Projections were made of the traffic volumes on the
proposed roads (Table 4). The 1973 base for these projections was obtained
through traffic surveys carried out in the two cities in September 1973.
Relatively modest annual increases were assumed after project completion in
1977 with an average of 5.2% in Mogpo and 7.2% in Yeosu. The volume of truck
traffic was assumed to increase most rapidly, 10.5% and 13.0% per year,
respectively, due to the interdependence between these roads, the housing
site and the industrial estate in Mogpo and the fishery harbor in Yeosu. The
traffic volumes were assumed to remain constant from 1986 on.
23.       The benefits of the proposed roads were determined by comparinr
vehicle operating costs and passenger travel times with and without these
roads. The operating costs and the travel times would be reduced because
of better roads, shorter distances and higher speeds. To estimate the value
of passenger travel time savings, a value of W 50 per hour was used for car
passengers and W 25 per hour for bus passengers, less than 25, of the corre-
sponding wage rates in the region.
24.       Rates of Return.  Based on the above cost and benefit streams
(Table 5) and with passenger time savings included, the ERRts are 16% for
Mogpo and 34% for Yeosu. If costs increase by 15%, the ERR drops to 14Y
for Mogpo and 31% for Yeosu.
Summary
25.       A summary of the estimated ERR's are shown below:
1/   The industrial area access road in Mogpo and the Seogyo Dong - Orim
Dong road in Yeosu.



ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 11
Housing Sites and Services
Gwangju                                         22
Mogpo                                           19
Yeosu                                           17
Fishery harbor complex - Yeosu                       33
City market - Suncheon                               17
Roads
Mogpo                                           16
Yeosu                                           34
Total for all project components                     28
Sensitivity Analysis
26.       The sensitivity of the project components' rates of return to
assumptions about cost variations and benefit variations is shown below:
Under          15%             10%       10%
Present     Increase in    Decrease  Increase
Project     Construction        in         in
Assumptions      Cost         Benefits  Benefits
Housing Sites and Services
Yeosu                           177.'        16%            16%       197
Mogpo                           19%          18%            18%       21%
Gwangju                         227         21%            20%        24%
Suncheon City Mlarket                17%          15%            14%        19%
Yeosu Fishery Harbor                 33%          29%            30%        35%
Complex
Roads
Mogpo  1                        16%          14%            15%       17%
Yeosu-                          34%          31%            32%       37%
/1   Benefits include passenger time savings.



ANNEX 13
Page 6 of ll
Table 1
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Economic Cost and Benefits - Housing Sites and Services
(W 000)
Costs                                                  Benefits
Project (Land, site             Housing          Maintenance         Imputed Rental
preparation, on-site          Construction (2)        (3)            Value & Land
infrastructure) (1)
Yeosu
-1974       103,434
1975        142,857
1976         95,238                     125,422
1977           0                        160,650              1,254               47,795
1978           0                        154,756              2,861              106,819
1979           0                           0                 4,409              164,793
1980-          0-                          0-                4,409-             164,793-
2002           0                           0                 4,409              164,793
2003           0                           0                 4,409              268,227
Mogpo
1974         53,990
1975        191,125
1976        127,417                     154,989
1977           0                        186,731              1,550               62.,039
1978           0                        186,731              3,417             135,672
1979           0                           0                 5,284              209,305
1980-          0-                          0-                5,284-             209,305-
2002           0                           0                 5,284              209,305
2003           0                           0                 5,284              263,295
Gwangju
1974        214,353
1975        131,598
1976         87,733                     164,158
1977           0                        206,622              1,642               82,041
1978           0                        204,933              3,708              183,470
1979           0                           0                 5,757              284,067
1980-          0-                          0-                5,757-            284,067-
2002           0                           0                 5,757              284,067
2003           0                           0                 5,757              498,420



KOREA
SECCNDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits - Yeosu Fishery Harbor Complex
(W Million)
- -   COSTS _                                          BENEFITS
Net Benefits from
Maintenance              Sale of          Time and Fuel          Fleet Increase    Net Benefits from
/2    M and                   Industrial      Savings, Existing    Uff-Shore  Deep Sea    Marine Center,
ProjectZ     Management                Sites            Fishing Fleet        Fishing   Fishing   Storage Sheds, etc.
____  (1)      _    2)            __ ___ (3)                    4                 (          (6) -( Q(7)
197L         148             o                       0                    0                 0         0              0
1975       1,686             0                       0                    0                 0         0               0
1976       2,094             0                     293                    0                 0          0              0
1977         556            83                     293                    0               870       110             90
1978           0           165                     293                   69             1,000       275            110
1979           0           165                       0                   69            1,130        440            130
1980           0           1.65                      0                   69            1,260        605            150
1981           0           165                       0                   69             1,390       770            160
1982 -
2003/1         0           165                       0                   69            1,390        770            160
/1  In year 2003 the land value (W 143 million)   is added to the benefit stream, assuming the same unit value
as for the industrial land in 1974.
/2  Including the cost of the access road.                                                                                  CD
o \



ANNEX 13
Page 8 of ll
Tab-le 3
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits - Suncheon Market
(W million)
Costs                                 Benefits
Project                  Maintenance,             Store             Open Market
(land, infra-            Management,             Rental             Rental Value
structure,               and Land                Value
buildings)
(1)                      (2)                  (3)                    (4)
1974         30                           0                     0                    0
1975         52                           0                     0                    0
1976        175                          0                      0                    0
1977          98                         11                    61                    8
1978           0                         14                    56                   97
1979           0                         ll                    2.7                  39
1980           0                         15                    19                   51
1981           0                         lc                    19                   60
1982 -          0-                       15-                   19-                  s0-
2002            0                         15                   19                   So
2003           0                         l5                    19                   60
/1 The land value (W 22 million) is added to the benefits in Column (3) in year 2003.



ANNEX 13
Page 9 of 11
Table 4
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Estimated Daily Traffic Volumes in 1977 and 1986 on Project Roads
Cars     Buses      Trucks     Total
Mogpo:
Industrial Estate
Access Road
1977                         1,263         256       571      2,090
1986                         1,510         398     1,4O2      3,310'
Annual growth rate, %          2.0         5.0      10.5        5.2
Yeosu:
Seogyo Dong-
Orim Dong
1977                         1,308         797       934      3,039
1986                         1,706       1,184     2,807      5,697
Annual growth rate, %          3.0         4.5      13,0        7.2
Sources: Surveys carried out in September, 1973
and reviewed in July 1974.



ANNEX 13
Page 10 of 11
Table5
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits - Roads
(W million)
Benefits
Costs:            Excluding        Including
Land Acquisition      Passenger        Passenger
and Construction     Time Savings      Time Savings
(1)                (2)               (3)
MOGPO:
Access Road
1974                            78                  0                 0
1975                           213                  0                 0
1976                           281k                 0                 0
1977                             0                 75                81
1978                             0                  8o               86
1979                             0                  85               91-
1980                             0                  91               97
1981                             0                 97               104
1982                             0                103               110
1983                             0                110               118
1984                             0                118               126
1985                             0                127               135
1986-2003                        0                 136              145
YEOSU:   SeoEyo Dong - Orim Dong
1974                            61                  0                 0
1975                            9L                  0                 0
1976                           127                  0                 0
1977                            91,               119               131 -
1978                             0                128               140
1979                             0                137               150
1980                             0                148               162
1981                             0                160               174
1982                             0                173               188
1983                             0                188               204
1984                             0                 204              220
1985                             0                 222              239
1986-2003                        0                 2411             259



ANNEX 13
Page I Iof 11
Table6
KOREA
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Employment Effects
(Number of Full-Time Jobs)
Direct Long-
Direct Employment        Term On-Site    Total Direct
Direct Employment         Effect of On-Site         Employment      Employment
Effect of the Project     Housing Construction      Effect          Effect
1975       1,850                      0                      a              1,850
1976       2,800                      410                    0              3,210
1977       1,310                      515                    1,150          2,975
1978       0                          510                    2,500          3,010
1979       0                          0                      3,300          3,300
1980       0                          0                      4,l100         4,100
1981       0                          0                      4,600          4.,600
1982       0                          0                      4,600          4,600



KOREA: SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION FOR CONSTRUCTION*
INTER-MINISTERIAL POLICY COMMITTEE
CHAIRED BY THE VICE MINISTER, ECONOMIC PLANNING BOARD
PROVINCIAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN: GOVERNOR
MEMBER:  MAYORS                                                              EXECUTING AGENCY
REGIONAL REPRESENTATIVES                  -      _     _                 (MOC)
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION
PRIVATE SECTOR
GWANGJU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
_ _  _               PROJECT MANAGER
PLANNING                  ENGINEERiNG        |       MANAGEMENT,                  PRIWATE
ACCOUNTING &                SECTOFR
TRAINING                    PROMOTION    i
|  tGWANG JU)   j      ]    (MOGPO)       |l(SUNCHEON)                               (YEOSU)
* Upon completion of the construction phase, the Provincial Government
of Jeonra Nam would be responsible for the suPervision of the facilities
turned over to the cities. Urban Project Units would be established by
the cities.
World Bank-8482(RJ



KOREA - SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEAR    1 9 74    197 5                                      1 9 76                     1 97 7                     1 9 7
PROJET COMONENTQUARTER                           3      4      1      2     3  I4         1      2      3     4      1      2    3      4       1      2      3    4
1. HJOUSING SITES AND SERVICES                                                                                                                      
1.01 HOUSING SITES & SERVICES. YEOSU                                                                                                            I
1 L.an  A,q-it                                                               ...itI.
2 Se,le- on  f Con-idats Desig. D-tai,, E,,gineerr,,, Pros,e, Superisi-      "'"   S4W          
.4 Plot Occpirot. H-ridg C-ru-ucio-  ec                                                                  
1.02 HOUSING SITES & SERVICES- MOGOe 
11L-c  Acq,;,s,,o553555   35   *5
.2 Dies and s-ric-. C-nse-c6-
.4 C,tot- ty  u.,id,nc ISn-11 Hteaih Clmitel
1.03 HOUSING SITE.S& SERVICES- GWANGJU.
1 Lend AOqu tilt...
.2 Sele-ti- ct Con-il-tsDesgn O-tited  cienc,P-ojec- unoro                         
.3 Si-e a-d Sotuice  Cu-ste-ci-t
.4 Pint tltcupanc, Housice C-1-lttcini e.,
2. SUNCHEON CITY MARKET
.1 Land Acqu,isl-i.....n.
.2 Se,l,ction o C-1.tuirnt, Deignqd .,Graiiod Engineerin. Project Sa--tsio    WV,       '111   *   'i- 
4 C,srr W-tks  Si.  Pntas,tu-lCnsrucio
5 Civil We-ks  M.Meker Buldiegs Cons-ucion
3. YEOSU FISHERY HARBOR COWLEX
lan d A-itititiod"
2 Steinesrgti,   tOiggo  2,d! Ore. 19741
3 Se,ect--   ft Co Dat. Deign. Detailed Engineer ing. Pnlect. Sugeroisinmm.                    5'  
.4 Civil OsOtks-FiIh.ig tndusttr  Z-n  D-ortgmp-
.5 Civii Worlks  Site Ptr,p-eaioe   etanto,  Reeomee and dre,dging
.6 Covil Vsorsik  Masin. Neoilgasre  Aidsi. Glve  drc.
7 DC, I atoos. Dk cs Pipt & Abutm-n  C-nsrooi-oc1
.9 Civil Wi,tks               15aenrut.e.drildic  Constrct oi
150 Me0c,rrcl Eqipme.-   Pt-utee-  and Instllatin-
1 1 Mi..u--anc    WOtlkn  i.d.Intding Elecotcel Light ngt
t2  Occ.p,r        I.d-           .aoctecee nnsuupprrr-gtco                                  .........1....4....                                          ---
4. ACCESS ROADS                                                                                II
4.01 ACCESS ROADS. YEOSU 
2 Seero   tCottat,Design. Detailed Enginering Projec-usolrn                    '1
.3 Ciutil Votks C-netrctio                                                                                                                                             It 1`       - lf    SMii 5
4.02 ACCESS ROAD., MOGPO
.1 L-td Acquisitioni                                                             55 *SSS* SSSS*SS55SSS
.2 Secti-r ft Consutant  Desig, Deta,iled Ec,gi-mrin  Proec. uesiu-                           S  frIZi'~SS~.~itrrVSS.iViIS
.3 Ccil Works C-ntucrn                                                          _    _-.. . ..                    :I-i'
LEGEND:                                                                                  11   Si         did (T-dal Pe-on  Se, -ur- Or fid, D-t-e  Err~.re.i
0S.S555.....  Acquisit t of Lasio byr Gootn-e-                                                           l"Prir- Scetu,s-
mSWw ,,w        Selecion  t C-nuiets-                                                                                 Enir-- od "6
A    S      Desgn D-talveEglsrig  Peeearasin.ot. Contrac  D-cuens                                     Gu, -   v  d  100rP--     iru  ;oco Otr,ccliut  kii 



IBRD 10970
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E ,,                                                                                               MARC CR4,,,  b 
| /                    129'
L   o . .  X A   l | .$  N.,,I_    <     .                       r  : 3  2                         X  s m -Wk
~~J1 .z~~~  -  ~ ~         ~         QR(   it        -KQ~E,N 
CHINA                                                   V*  VESA5
N,  1IKORB~.
N,  REPUBLIC
Th.ORE,' .OEA                                                                          )   * CInhi           I dyeo\\pO<le
)e/3WSee  a 
c,Gg                       I j- gbongeun -
p~ ~                           i i- flNIGRGOSI   OE
Ocean~~~~~~~~~~~~,Wnr
Th,V b,,,IldBank1 ,IJ,                                   ',      ,,  ,/ "'I
37,                                                                                                         mi
Gong~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~EITN  NATIONALO HIGHWAY  '-S                      *I>
I~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 EEIN tTCNC  SISAC C 4K
Y'e//o w   Sea
36-
36'
J,eoHj~         / ~         N,         ~          ea~                       n..._ K.nRPL
7\   ,                                 1      AIRP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRRlORTCfl EN  OAL
35'               '0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31
-Moogo,
125-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~oege,PI .d  127                                                      12'19                                    
KOREA
wa~~~o                           PLANNING  REGIONS IN KOREA
PLANNING REGIO)N BOUNDARIES
PLANNING SJBREGIcIN BOUNDARIES
EXISTING  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                            34'
'34                                                                                                                   EXPRESS WAY (FOUR LANE TOLL)
______NATIONAL HIGHWAYSIFAVEOI
      ---NATIONAL HIGHWAYS(UNPAVED)
........FEASIBILITY STUDY AND ENGINEERING~TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CR S4-KO
4                                          \y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRST PROJECT LOAN 769-KG
5    2      Hp    6p      BO   ]go                                                                       CONSTRUCTION ANT IMPROVEMENT ISCNPRJT
KILOMETERS                                                                       ------PAVING                                SCN   RJC
JOU  .  .,                      -I-------~~~~~~~H  BAILWAYS
AIRPORTS (INTERNAT ONAL'
®  PROVIN- AL CAPITALS
----PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-    -NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
125'                     ~~~~~~~~~126'                       12 7'                             GB'~                              129'






IBRD 11082
C A            5A ,O                                                                                                                                                                                     NOVEMBER 1974
NORTH POREsK                                                                                                                                                                     RE
AFAST
SEA ,{ '   31l-                                                          \  s<SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
*vctorr'o~ *Se:u   SfA                                                                         \\%is                                             Gwangiu Housing Sites and Services
FIRST STAGE
, f;  \\ez zr                                                 Project boundary, first stage
Playgrounds ana parks
SEA        I            ,                                                                                              %                                                        roads footp s Lrj R   D  ( ect)
R vers
Wafr SUPPly ne(tWor
'0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----75mm diameter lines
________________________________                                                                                                ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----150mmndiameter Pnen
'14                                                                 ~         ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-150 -m  diameter lire (outside of proecet)
..........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Fire hydrants
Dra/vnage network:
250mm d anneterlines
300mm diameter linen
450mm diaimeter linen
Culvert
Manholes, I 2Om diameter
E/ectrlc dl/strsbet:ms network,
Power lines
Electric poles, concrete
Electric poles wits transformers
Street l:plrti>g network:-
Power lires
Street ligOts
O      00    AD      60     80      lOG
A--Prst stae pretst    -.o                                                                                                                                               a       5YeA         eo    l
0-e0l pleosed prsrsje                                                                                                                                                           VRO
-Rends
Reilwes






IBRD 11083
KO  R E A             NOVEMBER 1974
SECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Mogpo Housing Sites and Services
FIRST STAGE
J   .f,-- Project boundary, first stage
Lots
. Playgrounds
----T-  ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      -_____Rad,footpaths (Project)
Health clinic
Water supply network:
I _-=--   75mm  diameter lines
-              i             -                 -- 1  L        2 00mm  diameter lines
_50 mm diameter line (outside of project)
Fire hydrants
Drainage network:
250mm diameter lines
300mm diameter lines
--450mm diameter lines
*--600mm diameter line
1500mm diameter line
o Manholes, 1.20m  diameter
Mah* M    oles, 1.80m  diameter
Existing open drains
Electric ditiuinnetwok
Power linen
__ Jtm~~~~~.~~4!  ~~~ -i~~~::    _                                o~~~    Electric poles, concrete
*    Electric poles with transformer
Street lighting network.
----tI-II_ Power lines
* Sret l ight's
Note: Flat terrain
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l                                                                           .-J,  f Ig
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orcii ioxsIn   cc b,,J.,n |=<                                                                        J l  0p d
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                                     1 2           ts     I
NORTH, K05
Id,.                       FASr
SEA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~t
4      -~~~~~~~~~~~~ II-~~~~~~~~s-
o     20     40    60       to    100
METERS
o     20    40    60    so   too
YARD                                                                                                                   Plnedpojc
] i g ;- doomc9e krr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roadr s rs.r>Ih|
e   1->ft,L1   1:   [  t  J  }   t  fi;   j  T  1   <001           '      1                            11    llio-            Ii8-Xt        li3'~~~~~~~~~~~Rairoad






\  \                            i'' '                               -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K O R E A
C---eci\;g                                                                       :   SECONDARY CITiES REGIONAL PROJECT
==6er supply "nteS \. a Suncheon  City  Market
= p~~~~~~onneecll.ng toe/0n9\
Project boundary, first stage
JO' NECESsJ~~~~~~~~~s MARKEr ~~~~~Paved area
AR.KE.]                             0                                  _      3Unpaved area (hard standing)
Waler supply network;
-  -   75mm diameter lines
___ 100mm diameter line
Drainagle network:
Gutters
---Open drains
Electri distriution etworkr.
---  Power lines
SHELTER  ~ ~    ~                     o     Electric poles, concrete
AREA    FR~ESH PRODUCE   -~                                     Electric poles with transformer
Stetlightlng network:
Power lines
|-    -  *  Street lights
20    40    60    so
- METERS
Il o   I                                          '\S \'''WfoP'\            .            1             '':~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d~"dod ,o
F U TUR E    EXTENSION                                                                1 2 
(COMMERCIAL AREA  ZONE                                  N  '\  '                      - NORTH KOREA
N 01   1                                                                              \,\\  \  \    -   -X -Seoul
J5EA
___\S                                                                                         S '\0\ \ \  3Ry  -      rezow  k Doegu7  36
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S   A
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w~i
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 uo
z                                                                                             2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-15130" O






I BRD  10962RF
2   1                                                                                    2 FX60  0   ~t ¢Oc  <>  r   zYOVEMBER W974
re//owt ,f/>Jeonju          r             J/O                                                                                                      2
Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~KIOtETEPS
mitE
Breokwater
commerciali Port
SEODARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
Yeosu Project Components
Housing site and service project component (First stage)
LiiHousing site and service, overall planned area
7jj;Fishery harbor complex project component (First stage)
L17-7   Fishery harbor complex, overall planned area
-         Access roads project component
-X2=     i vers
Geng Ho Do                             Primary roads
---'---Railway
oo-  Contours in meters






IBRDS 11085
26'   I  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~h                     I, -   ,NOVEMBER 1974
E  /1>NORTH KOREAl3i          T3    he b.rndc,e, shee,,nr, on t ap dJI.r is,,108
-0             I  -mpl- cndoscmnr r apnnce be th,                                                                KOREA
EAST  W0r21&ekandmnaffibete SSECONDARY CITIES REGIONAL PROJECT
rrh5IoX930ul  0  rEA                                                                                Yeosu Housing Sites and Services
SEA                                                                                                                    FIRST STAGE
Project boundary, first stage
Lots
SEA                                                                                                                                               i °Doegu  S  ,r   Playgrounds
Jw qrqj      Busav, R" -rRoads footpaths (project)
4 Gonng u      Busas/y   q                                                                                                                   Rvr
MO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Contours, Sm interoals
£0511  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Water supply network(
75mm  digmeter lines
Flrst stage proiect                                                                                                                    --        lOOmm diameter lines
Oerul planned project                                                                                                                       *    Fire hydruants
-Rea,ds                                                                                            b                                              t7Dranage network
- R oads-                                                                                                                   -- 250 m m   -1200m m   diam eter   lines
Gutter
YEO5U<&                                                                                                              - -    Culvert
o    Manholes, 1 20m dioimeter
*    Manholes, .80m diameter
Electrit7 d1str1but,bn network:.
METFRS                        ,                                              \x                       y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pwr lie
Electric poles with transformers
WATtR DISTRIBUTION 
*  -  f,   'BOOTER PUMP  TATION
O     20    40      60      BO    100
O  20      dO      60      B0     100
METERS






IBRD 11086
NOVEMBER 1974
~   0~'V~                   0     0     0 2            ;f;                        YARDS r -50  r-100  150  200
Mc~~~~po  Y000    (RB          ~ ~~~~               _     l0     ~ 50           20
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~          ~          ~           ~          ~          ~         ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         _0
I=  IV
4     /                                L- -'1/  -       op _a                                       3        d         p        /                     Elevatloy - -  -n- - -OopO , -0-t-                  Od   r -   - 
Mp~~~~ ~~~ A-   -e o f\   | X.ppS.,tIig.irg fixurscdfcrti oe(tp)rClet.!?S 
9                \d      :             °                            "      TrcesFormErs                                            '      Manholes                                                 /             :      : 



