CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1070 KO
Project A.greement
(Secondary Cities Regional Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
JEONRA NAM PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
DATED JANUARY 15, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1070 KO
Project Agreement
(Secondary Cities Regional Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
JEONRA NAM PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
DATED JANUARY 15, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and JEONRA NAM PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT (hereinafter called JNPG).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Korea (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in var,ous currencies equivalent to
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that JNPG agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS JNPG, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the term "Won" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. JNPG shall be responsible for the operation and administration
of (a) the housing sites and services in the cities of Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu
under Part A(i) of the Project, (b) the Suncheon city market under Part A(iii)
of the Project and (c) the access roads in Yeosu and Mogpo under Part A(iv)
of the Project. JNPG shall perform such functions with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿4
Section 2.02. JNPG shall cause GCG, MCG, SCG and YCG to establish and
maintain in Gwangju City, Mogpo, Suncheon and Yeosu, respectively, a suitably
staffed Urban Project Unit within the Mayor's office, which shall have the following
functions: (a) in Gwangju City, Mogpo and Yeosu, respectively, the Urban Project
Unit shall be responsible for (i) the selection of settlers eligible to purchase the
lots provided under Part A(i) of the Project, in accordance with criteria satisfactory
to the Bank, including, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower, (ii) the sale of those lots under Section 2.04 of this
Agreement, (iii) the supeivision of construction of model housing units using
low-cost materials and family labor, and (iv) the identification of potential projects;
and (b) in Suncheon, the Urban Project Unit shall be responsible for monitoring
progress in the implementation of Part A(iii) of the Project and for the identification
of potential projects.
Section 2.03. In order to assist the Urban Project Units in the sale of lots
to settlers and in the supervision of construction of low-cost housing models with
a view to demonstrate the feasibility of utilizing low-cost methods of construction
in self-help schemes, JNPG shall cause GCG, MCG and YCG to secure the services
of the Korea Housing Corporation.
Section 2.04. JNPG shall cause GCG, MCG and YCG to sell through the
Urban Project Units the lots of the housing sites acquired pursuant to Section
3.03(a) of the Loan Agreement to the settlers selected by the Urban Project Units,
under terms and conditions in accordance with those set forth in Schedule I to
this Agreement.
Section 2.05. JNPG shall cause GCG, MCG and YCG to make loans secured
by mortgages to all purchases of 35 PY and 50 PY lots, ich loans to cover up
to 80% of the cost of housing construction, to be amortized over a period of
1.5 years and to bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum, provided that such
loans shall allow initial debt service payments up to 15% lower than those required
under constant monthly payments, the subsequent debt payments increasing over
time to meet the full amounts of the purchasers' debt obligations under such loans.
Section 2.06. JNPG shall cause SCG to rent to merchants space in the new
Suncheon city market under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.07. JNPG shall cause GCG, MCG, YCG and SCG to maintain
adequately all the facilities transferred to them by the Borrower pursuant to Section
3.03(a) of the Loan Agreement, to make all necessary repairs thereto promptly,
all in accordance with sound enginc 7ring practices and to provide, promptly as


﻿5
needed, the funds, services and other resources required for such maintenance and
repairs.
Section 2.08. JNPG shall cause GCG, MCG, SCG and YCG to duly perform
all their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, JNPG shall not take or concur in any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 2.09. (a) JNPG shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   JNPG  shall promptly inform  the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the performance by JNPG of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of JNPG
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other


﻿6
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Jeonra Nam Provincial Government:
Jeonra Nam Provincial Government
Gwangju City
Republic of Korea
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of JNPG may be taken or executed by the Governor or such other person or
persons as JNPG shall-designate in writing.
Section 4.03. JNPG shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of JNPG, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by JNPG pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
JEONRA NAM PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
By  /s/ Yoon Sae Yang
Authorized Representative


﻿8
SCHEDULE 1
Selection of Settlers, Mortgage Loan Terms,
and Conditions of Sale
A.    Selection of Settlers
1.   The Urban Project Units shall be responsible for the selection of settlers
and shall give public notice of the availability of lots for sale. Settlers wishing
to purchase a lot provided under Part A(i) of the Project shall submit an application
to the Urban Project Unit on forms provided by the Urban Project Unit.
2.    Eligible applicants shall meet inter alia the following eligibility criteria: (i)
applicants for 35 py lots must have an annual household income, based on 1973
prices, of less than 580,000 Won; applicants for 50 py lots must have an annual
household income, based on 1973 prices, of less than 840,000 Won; and all
applicants must show satisfactory evidence of regular income and employment;
(i) applicants must have the funds necessary to meet the downpayment
requirements under Part C of this Schedule; and (iii) applicants shall not own a
house at the time of their application, as evidenced by their holding of a non-house
certificate issued by the city government.
3.    The Urban Project Units shall take into consideration other elements such
as household size and conditions of present occupancy.
B.   Determination of Lots Sale Prices
The price of 35 py and 50 py lots to be charged by the Urban Project
Units shall be equal to the full cost of land acquisition and civil works for site
preparation and on-site infrastructure. The price of 70 py lots to be charged by
the Urban Project Units shall be at least 30% above the full cost of land acquisition
and civil works for site preparation and on-site infrastructure.
C.   Mortgage Loan Terms
A 20% downpayment shall be required from purchasers of 35 py lots; a
50% downpayment shall be required from purchasers of 50 py lots; the 70 py
lots shall be sold on a cash basis only.
The mortgage loans by the Urban Project Units to purchasers of 35 py and
50 py lots for the balance of the purchase price shall be extended on terms and
conditions which shall include the following:


﻿9
(a)   The loan shall be amortized over a period of 15 years from the date
of signing of the sales contract with the city with prepayment allowed;
(b)   the loan shall bear an interest at the rate of 12% per annum on the
principal amount outstanding from time to time; and
(c)   debt service payments shall be made monthly. Initial debt service
payments up to 15% lower than those required under constant monthly
payments shall be allowed, provided that subsequent debt service
payments shall increase over time to meet the full amounts of the
settlers' debt obligations under such loans.
D.    Conditions of Sale
The contracts of sale of lots shall include the following conditions:
(a)   Settlers on 35 py and 50 py lots shall occupy personally the lots
within a period not exceeding 18 months from the date of purchase;
(b)   the cities shall retain title to the lots until repayment is completed;
(c)   settlers shall abide by the applicable building regulations;
(d)   settlers shall properly maintain their lots and the structures thereon;
(e)   settlers shall cooperate in the maintenance of community facilities and
sanitary conditions throughout the site; and
(f)   all resales of 35 py and 50 py lots shall be subject to approval by
the Urban Project Units within a period of five years from the date
of signing of the corresponding loans.


