CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1070 KO
Loan Agreement
(Secondary Cities Regional Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 15, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1070 KO
Loan Agreement
(Secondary Cities Regional Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 15, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Jeonra Nam Provincial Government (hereinafter called JNPG), JNPG has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
(C)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and JNPG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "MOC" means the Ministry of Construction of the Borrower;
(b)   "JNPG" means the Jeonra Nam Provincial Government;
(c)   "GCG" means the Gwangju City Government;


﻿4
(d)   "MCG" means the Mogpo City Government;
(e)   "YCG" means the Yeosu City Government;
(f)   "SCG" means the Suncheon City Government;
(g)   "GRDU" means the Gwangju Regional Development Unit to be
established under Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement;
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and GCG, MCG, SCG and YCG respectively, pursuant
to Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement;
(i) "Urban Project Units" means the units to be established under Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement;
(j) "KHB" means the Korea Housing Bank; and
(k)   One "py" means one pyong, which is equal to 3,307 square meters.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars (515,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project shall be awarded in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1979 or such other date
as 3hall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE Ill
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
the Project through MOC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, services and resources required
for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause all its departments, agencies and political
subdivisions and all agencies of its political subdivisions, responsible for the carrying
out or the financing of the Project or any part thereof, to cooperate effectively
with each other in the execution of the Project.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause JNPG, GCG, MCG, SCG and
YCG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements all their respective obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable JNPG,
GCG, MCG, SCG and YCG to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. In order to ensure efficient coordination in the implementation
of the Project by the city governments and the agencies involved in the Project
and to assist the Borrower in the formulation of a regional planning program, the


﻿6
Borrower shall (a) establish and maintain a suitably staffed Gwangju Regional
Development Unit (GRDU) to be responsible to MOC; (b) cause MOC to appoint
as head of GRDU a Project Manager whose qualifications and experience shall be
acceptable to the Bank; (c) cause GRDU to complete a work program and a schedule
for the implementation of the Project not later than June 30, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; (d) assign to the Vice
Ministers Conference for Economic Affairs the responsibility of providing policy
guidance for regional planning and development first for Gwangju region and
thereafter for the Borrower's other planning regions; and (e) establish and maintain
a Provincial Advisory Committee chaired by the Governor of Jeonra Nam Province,
whose membership shall include the mayors of the cities of Gwangju, Mogpo, Yeosu
and Suncheon, regional representatives of the Ministries and representatives of
educational institutions and -of the private sector, and whose function shall be to
advise the Project Manager on major development programs to be carried out in
Gwangju region.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause (i) GCG, MCG and YCG to repay
to the Borrower an amount equivalent in terms of currency of the Borrower to
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn by GRDU on behalf of GCG, MCG and YCG,
respectively, on account of expenditures incurred (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be incurred) for the execution of Part A(i) of the Project (such equivalent to
be determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals from the Loan Account)
and (ii) SCG to repay to the Burrower an amount equivalent in terms of currency
of the Borrower to the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn by GRDU on behalf
of SCG, on account of expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) for the execution of Part A(iii) of the Project (such equivalent to be
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals from the Loan Account),
pursuant to subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and GCG, MCG, YCG and SCG, respectively, upon terms and conditions which
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such terms and conditions t. include, inter alia,
those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause KHB to make loans to GCG,
MCG and YCG (hereinafter called KHB loans) to cover: (i) the cost of acquisition
by GCG, MCG and YCG of all such land as shall be required for the purpose
of Part A(i) of the Project and (ii) that part of the costs of civil works and


﻿7
engineering consultants' services under Part A(i) of the Project which shall not
be financed by the Loan and for which GRDU shall be entitled to withdraw from
KHB loans all such amounts as shall be necessary for the execution of Part A(i)
of the Project, such KHB loans to be amortized over a period of 15 years, including
a grace period of 3 years and to bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum.
(b)   Upon completion of the lots provided under Part A(i) of the Project,
in order to assist GCG, MCG and YCG in the financing of part of the cost of
housing construction under Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause KHB to make available to GCG, MCG and YCG loans which shall be
amortized over a period of 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years, and
which shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause SCG to provide all such funds as
shall be necessary to cover: (i) the cost of acquisition by SCG of the land required
for the purpose of Part A(iii) of the Project and (ii) that part of the costs of
civil works and engineering consultants' services under Part A(iii) of the Project
which shall not be financed by the Loan and for which funds shall be made available
by SCG to GRDU.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall transfer to GCG, MCG and YCG the funds
needed to meet their respective financial obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and KHB loans, with respect to expenditures made for the off-site
infrastructure, engineering consultants' services, the construction of community
facilities and the development of green areas required under Part A(i) of the Project,
such transfer to be made in accordance with schedules of payments which shall
conform pro rata to the installments set forth in the amortization schedules under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and KHB loans respectively, provided that the
Borrower shall be allowed to prepay all or part of its financial obligations under
this section.
Section 3.07. (a) In order to assist MOC in carrying out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, (i) engineering consultants
acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and
(ii) contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b)   For the purpose of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed, consultants acceptable to the Bank upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. In o.Jer to assist the Office of Fisheries in the management
and operation of the Yeosu fishery harbor complex to be constructed under Part


﻿8
A(ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Office of Fisheries (a) to appoint
a harbor manager, an assistant manager for administration, a traffic officer and
a port engineer for planning and maintenance, all of them with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank and (b) to employ consultants acceptable to
the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause MOC to suspend ti sale of sites
selected for fish processing plants to be provided in the Yeosu fishery harbor
complex under Part A(ii) of the Project until detailed site planning and layouts
have been completed.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that
the plants located in the Yeosu fishery harbor complex are operated with due
regard to ecological and environmental factors in order to avoid pollution of the
rivers leading to Gamag Bay.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause MOC to make all such arrangements
with the Korea Electric Company as shall be necessary to provide off-site electrical
facilities required for the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Boirower shall cause MOC to furnish to the Bank,
promptly   upon  their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably rLquest.
(b)   The Borrower (i) shall cause MOC to maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿9
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for tne benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto, and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by


﻿10
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall (a) cause GRDU to establish and maintain
(i) a separate Project Account with sub-accounts for each Part and sub-Part of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) accounts and records
adequate to reflect separately the amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account and
KHB loans by GRDU on behalf of GCG, MCG, YCG and SCG, pursuant to Section
3.03(a) and Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement respectively; (b) cause GCG, MCG,
YCG, SCG and the Office of Fisheries to submit to GRDU quarterly financial
reports on the operation and management of the facilities turned over to them
by the Borrower upon completion of their construction; and (c) cause GRDU to
have the Project Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied and to furnish to the Bank the report of
such audit as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   JNPG  shall have failed to perform  any covenant, agreement or
obligation of JNPG under the Project Agreement;
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that JNPG will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement; and
(c)   any Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any material provision thereof shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived by GCG, MCG, YCG or SCG,
without the prior agreement of the Bank.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and JNPG; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
JNPG have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b)   The execution and deli- y of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements on
behalf of the Borrower and GCG, MCG, YCG and SCG, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(c)   The execution and delivery on behalf of KHB and GCG, MCG and
YCG, respectively, of the KHB loans provided for the first year of the Project,
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(d)   GRDU has been established in accordance with Section 3.02(a) of this
Agreement;
(e)   The Project Manager referred to in Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement
has been appointed and has taken up his post;
(f)   The Borrower has employed the engineering consultants referred to
in Section 3.07(a)(i) of this Agreement; and
(g)   The Borrower, pursuant to the Land Expropriation and Planning Laws,
has (i) published notices delineating the lands to be acquired for the carrying out
of the Project, (ii) frozen the prices of those lands and (iii) purchased or zoned
the area southwest of the proposed new Yeosu harbor site to reserve it for future
expansion of the harbor.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, JNPG, and is legally binding upon JNPG
in accordance with its terms;


﻿12
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and GCC, MCG,
YCG and SCG, respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower, GCG, MCG,
YCG and SCG in accordance with their terms;
(c)   That the KHB loans have been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of KHB, GCG, MCG and YCG, respectively, and
are legally binding upon KHB, GCG, MCG and YCG in accordance with their terms;
and
(d)   That the establishment of GRDU has been authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action.
Section 6.03. The date April 15, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Economic Planning Board of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul
Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿13
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s / Yoon Sae Yang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
*                                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works under             7,300,000          60%
Part A of the
Project
(2)   Engineering Consult-            800,000          60%
ants' services for
civil works under
Part A of the
Project
(3)  Equipment under                 1,100,000          100% of foreign
Part A(ii) of the                                 expenditures
Project
(4)  Consultants' ser-               1,000,000         60%
vices under Part B
of the Project
(5)   Unallocated                   4,800,000
TOTAL         15,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditure for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower, provided, however, that if the currency


﻿15
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which goods
or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account
of expenditures incurred after August 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $150,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan,


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in establishing a regional
development program in Gwangju region. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.
(i)         Preparation of housing sites with services in Gwangju City,
Mogpo and Yeosu covering a total area of about 37 ha and
providing about 1370 lots of 35 py, about 350 lots of 50 py
and about 180 lots of 70 py.
(ii)        Construction of a fishery harbor complex in the Gukdong area
of Yeosu including: the construction of about 820 m of landing
and berthing quays, and about 240 m of piers and abutments;
the construction of fishery harbor buildings and infrastructure
for the harbor complex; the development of industrial sites with
services for the establishment of fish processing plants and
auxiliary facilities for the fishing industry; and the procurement
and installation of handling equipment and navigational aids.
(iii)       Construction of a city market in Suncheon covering an area of
about 3.3 ha with a building space providing for retail stalls,
a sheltered area for fresh produce, a paved area for the market
held daily and an additional unpaved surface for the market held
every fifth day.
(iv)        Construction and improvement of about 6.6 kin of access roads
(including five bridges) in Yeosu and Mogpo to connect the
housing sites to industrial or commercial sites and to other
centers of activity of the two cities.
Part B.     Provision of consultants' services:
(i)         to assist GRDU's Project Manager in the formulation and
implementation of the work program referred to in Section
3.02(c) of this Agreement;
(ii)       to assist MOC in the review of regional development policies
at the national level of Government, the evaluation of the


﻿17
housing sites and services experience, the formulation of a
housing policy and the training of MOC's regional planning staff;
(iii)      to assist the Borrower's Office of Fisheries in the management
and operation of the Yeosu fishery harbor complex, including
the assessment of costs and charges, the preparation of a financial
plan and of a planning program for future expansion of the
harbor complex;
(iv)       for the preparation of a program to improve the operation and
management of water supply systems in Gwangju City, Mogpo,
Yeosu and Suncheon, including short-term improvements to be
financed by available resources under the budgets of GCG, MCG,
YCG and SCG respectively; and
(v)        to carry out feasibility studies and the preparation of selected
projects to be identified under regional physical planning studies
which are being carried out by the United Nations Development
Programme and MOC, including, inter alia, the preparation of
plans for sewerage and night soil disposal in Gwangju City and
Mogpo.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1978.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1982                                           195,000
September 15, 1982                                      200,000
March 15, 1983                                          210,000
September 15, 1983                                      215,000
March 15, 1984                                          225,000
September 15, 1984                                      235,000
March 15, 1985                                          245,000
September 15, 1985                                      255,000
March 15, 1986                                          265,000
September 15, 1986                                      275,000
March 15, 1987                                          285,000
September 15, 1987                                      300,000
March 15, 1988                                          310,000
September 15, 1988                                      320,000
March 15, 1989                                          335,000
September 15, 1989                                      350,000
March 15, 1990                                          360,000
September 15, 1990                                      375,000
March 15, 1991                                          390,000
September 15, 1991                                      405,000
March 15, 1992                                          425,000
September 15, 1992                                      440,000
March 15, 1993                                          460,000
September 15, 1993                                      475,000
March 15, 1994                                          495,000
September 15, 1994                                      515,000
March 15, 1995                                          535,000
September 15, 1995                                      555,000
March 15, 1996                                          580,000
September 15, 1996                                      605,000
March 15, 1997                                          625,000
September 15, 1997                                      650,000
March 15, 1998                                          680,000
September 15, 1998                                      705,000
March 15, 1999                                          735,000
September 15, 1999                                      770,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿19
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 3/4%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                               2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   3%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         4-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                         6-3/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                               7-1/2%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                                   8%


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
publ'shed by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Civil works shall be aggregated adequately so as to encourage competitive
bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of Korea may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Republic of
Korea if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of
the Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of Korea equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿21
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Korea.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 1 5% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
I.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.


﻿22
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to. the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
made by the consultants employed under the Project on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award of
the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 5
Financial Obligations of GCG, MCG, SCG and YCG
to be included in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1.   Financial obligations of GCG, MCG and YCG with respect to the preparation
of housing sites
(a)   no interest shall be charged until completion of the housing sites;
(b)   during the period of site construction, GCG, MCG and YCG shall
transfer to the Borrower, on a quarterly basis, all payments (down payments,
monthly payments, cash sales) received from purchasers of the lots; and
(c)   upon completion of the housing sites, GCG, MCG and YCG shall repay
the amounts referred to in Section 3.03(a)(i) of this Agreement tess the aggregate
amount of payments made to the Borrower under paragraph (b) above, over a
period of 25 years, including a grace period of 7 years at an interest rate of 8%
per annum on the amount outstanding from time to time, provided that GCG,
MCG and YCG shall be allowed to prepay all or part of their financial obligations
under this Schedule.
2.   Financial obligations of SCG with' respect to the construction of the
Suncheon city market
(a)   no interest shall be charged during the construction of the city market.
(b)   upon completion of its construction, SCG shall repay the amount
referred to in Section 3.03(a)(ii) of this Agreement over a period of 25 years,
including a grace period of 7 years, and at an interest rate of 8% per annum on
the amount outstanding from time to time.
3.   Financial obligations of YCG and MCG with respect to the access roads
provided under Part A(iv) of the Project
YCG and MCG shall not assume financial obligations other than those referred
to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement with respect to the maintenance of
the access roads transferred to them by the Borrower.


