                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 27635

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (IDA-27850 TF-20334)

                                            ON A

                                          CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 32.9 MILLION
                               (US$49.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                              TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

                                          VIETNAM

                                           FOR A

          PAYMENT SYSTEM AND BANKING SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                        June 15, 2004




Country Department Unit, Vietnam
Poverty Reduction and Economic Managemetn Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
                         1 Vietnamese Dong = US$ 0.00006355
                                    US$ 1.00 = 15,736 Vietnamese Dong

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                  January      December

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB                      Asian Development Bank
ASEAN                    Association of South-East Asian Nations
ATM                      Automated Teller Machine
BIDV                     Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam
CB                       Commercial Bank (participating in the project)
CBPS                     Comercial Bank Payment System
Eximbank                 Vietnam Export and Import Commercial Joint Stock Bank
IBPS                     Inter-Bank Payment System
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
Incombank                Industrial and Commercial Bank of Vietnam
ITDB                     Informatics Technology Department of the Bank (SBV)
JSB                      Joint Stock Bank
Maritimebank             Vietnam Maritime Commercial Joint Stock Bank
MOF                      Ministry of Finance
NPC                      National Payments Council
PHRD                     Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (Japan)
PMU                      Project Management Unit
PPC                      Provincial Processing Center
SAPS                     Settlement Account Processing System
SAR                      Staff Appraisal Report
SBV                      State Bank of Vietnam
SIDA                     Swedish International Development Authority
SOCB                     State-Owned Commercial Bank
SOE                      State-Owned Enterprise
SWIFT                    Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications
UNDP                     United Nations Development Program
VBARD                    Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
VDC                      Vietnam Data Company
Vietcombank              Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam
VNPT                     Vietnam Posts and Telecommunications



                            Vice President:        Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                         Country Director:         Klaus Rohland, EACVF
        Chief Economist and Sector Director:       Homi Kharas, EASPR
                           Sector Manager:          Khalid A. Mirza, EASFP
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Miguel Navarro-Martin, EASFP

                                          VIETNAM
   PAYMENT SYSTEM AND BANKING SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

Project ID: P036042                                                  Project Name: BANKING SYSTEM
                                                                     MODERNIZATION
Team Leader: Miguel Navarro-Martin                                   TL Unit: EASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                    Name: BANKING SYSTEM MODERNIZATION                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-27850; TF-20334
    Country/Department: VIETNAM                                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

         Sector/subsector: Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement (85%);
                            Banking (15%)
                   Theme: Standards and financial reporting (P); Other financial and private
                            sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
            PCD: 08/31/1994                                    Effective: 04/15/1996                04/30/1996
      Appraisal: 06/10/1995                                        MTR:
       Approval: 11/21/1995                                     Closing: 06/30/2000                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM/STATE BANK OF VIETNAM
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Klaus Rohland                                  Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:                 Homi Kharas                                    --
Team Leader at ICR:             Miguel Navarro-Martin                          Shilpa Patel
ICR Primary Author:             Thang-Long Ton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



Note on the Ratings: The ICR ratings take into account the project's overall performance and the results in terms of
activities completed and outcome achieved.

Footnote: The project was listed as a as a problem project for the period of 1996-1999 due to weak management and
unreadiness among the institutions concerned to proceed with the implementation. In addition, the project's implementation
was delayed due to the need to resolve a complaint submitted to the World Bank from a unsuccessful bidder on procurement
issues (Section 4, Paragraph 4.1.8).

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. Background. Since its opening to the world in the late 1980s, Vietnam has embarked
upon a long-term development strategy to modernize its economy and to integrate it with the
international community. This strategy required extensive efforts and actions on many fronts to
support the country's transition from a centrally-planned regime to a market-oriented economy.
One of the most important sectors to be developed and modernized was the country's financial
sector to support economic growth and the smooth transition to a market economy. The
government's long-term development strategy for the financial sector was formulated around the
following objectives: (i) developing a market-based monetary management system; (ii) fostering
efficiency and competition in the financial sector through equal treatment for all participants and
through modernization of banking systems; and (iii) promoting public confidence in the banking
system. The government followed a building-block approach, tackling areas of immediate
concern first, keeping to the philosophy of gradual, and sustainable reform process with broad
consensus among stakeholders. This was reflected in the government's decision to begin the
reform process with the Payment System and Banking Modernization Project.

3.1.2. In the early 1990s, the payment system was making progress but the consensus was that
much more needed to be done to foster effectiveness and efficiency in servicing the banking
sector. For example, in the absence of non-cash payment instruments, cash was the predominant
means of payments in the country and, without electronic transfer of funds, government payments
between agencies as well as other expenditures were handled outside the banking system and
payroll payments were done in cash.

3.1.3 Objectives. The Payment System and Banking Modernization Project sought to establish an
adequate banking sector infrastructure which would consist of principal building blocks such as
efficient payment, clearing and settlement systems and the associated legal and regulatory
framework within which a modern financial sector could operate efficiently. This infrastructure
would provide basic services and enable the mobilization of capital held in liquid forms outside the
banking system. The project aimed to improve and accelerate payment services in the economy in
order to reduce float, speed up circulation of funds and increase efficiency of funds transmission,
while providing convenience and services to users. The project sought also to strengthen the
institutional capabilities of participating banks in order to stimulate commercial bank initiatives to
improve internal management and customer services.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1. There was no revision in the objectives of the project.




                                                            - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. To carry out the above objectives, the project provided financial support for four principal
components: (i) a national inter-bank payment clearing and settlement system; (ii) commercial
bank's intra-bank payment systems; (iii) commercial banks' institutional strengthening; and (iv)
project management support. Training and skills transfer were also integrated into the first two
components while computer hardware and software for the system operations were being
established and installed.

3.3.2. Table 1summarizes the project's objectives, its components, and the proposed instruments
and actions to be implemented.

Table 1. Objectives, Components, Instruments/Actions

         Objective            Components                          Instruments/Actions
· Improve payment          · National           · Interbank Payment System (IBPS)
services in the economy    Inter-bank Payment      o Low-value sub-system for credit transfers and
                           Clearing and            pre-authorized debit transfers to handle batches of
                           Settlement System       items (bulk payments) and individual items
                                                   o High-value sub-system for credit transfers with
                                                   real-time gross settlement facility for individual
                                                   time-critical payments
                                                · Settlement Account Processing System (SAPS)
· Strengthen the           · Commercial         · Commercial Bank Payment System (CBPS) for each
institutional capabilities Bank's Intra-bank    of the six commercial banks included within the scope of
of participating banks in  Payment Systems      the project
order to stimulate
commercial bank
initiatives to improve
internal management and
customer services
                           · Commercial         · Diagnostic reviews of commercial banks'
                           Bank's Institutional modernization needs
                           Strengthening        · Diagnostics portfolio reviews and financial audits of
                                                commercial banks to determine their true financial
                                                situation
                           · Project            · Procurement of the systems
                           Management           · Technical support to the Project Management Unit
                           Support



3.3.3. National Inter-bank Payment Clearing and Settlement System. This component
supported the establishment of a system of payment clearing and settlement by the State Bank of
Vietnam (SBV) and the commercial banks with two sub-components: (i) an Inter-Bank Payment
System (IBPS) between banks; and (ii) a Settlement Account Processing System (SAPS) (see



                                                 - 3 -

Table 1). The IBPS was designed to handle intra- and inter-provincial domestic inter-bank
payments in Vietnamese dong, with a currency conversion facility for non-dong-denominated
payments. Settlement banks would have direct access to the IBPS, with a single centralized
settlement account at the SBV and the IBPS interacted with SAPS for settlement purposes. The
SBV established the criteria for participation in the IBPS for settlement banks, including financial
strength, conformity with technical standards and risk management ability. A bank without a
settlement account could participate indirectly through a correspondent relationship with a
settlement bank. The IBPS was designed to allow access by settlement banks through six
provincial processing (clearing) centers and through the banking centers in Hanoi and Ho Chi
Minh City. Any commercial bank that met the participation criteria set by the SBV could
participate.

3.3.4. Commercial Bank's Intra-bank Payment Systems addressed the intra-bank and
international payments needs of the six participating banks: the four State-Owned Commercial
Banks (SOCBs) and the two joint-stock banks (JSBs). They were: Bank for Investment and
Development of Vietnam (BIDV), Industrial and Commercial Bank of Vietnam (Incombank),
Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD), Bank for Foreign Trade of
Vietnam (Vietcombank), Vietnam Export and Import Commercial Joint Stock Bank (Eximbank),
and Vietnam Maritime Commercial Joint Stock Bank (Maritimebank). Together, the six
accounted for around 90 percent of banking activity in the country in the mid-1990s (87 percent
for the four SOCBs). The Bank assessed that the SBV criteria for selection were adequate,
including the adoption of and compliance with the SBV-mandated Commercial Bank Chart of
Accounts, following the country's accounting framework, and availability of audited statements.
There were at that time 4 SOCBs, 36 JSBs , 69 credit cooperatives, 3 joint venture banks, 16
foreign bank branches and 153 popular credit funds. Only the four SOCBs and the two JSBs
mentioned above were qualified to participate in the project. Besides the SOCBs, the JSBs were
selected to ensure the systems were inclusive and the payment systems established to serve more
banks, and not just SOCBs.

3.3.5. A commercial bank payment system (CBPS), envisioned for each of the six commercial
banks, was designed to support and reflect the different customer accounting organization
structures (centralized, decentralized, or a hybrid) of the commercial banks. The generalized
CBPS structure could accommodate the varied needs of the commercial banks in their present
situation as well as those of their future plans for customer accounting improvements. Payment
instructions from commercial bank branches would be transmitted electronically, once validated,
to the account-holding branches for updating of the customer accounts maintained for originators
and receivers. The CBPS could be integrated with the SWIFT-based international payment
facility already set up at the head offices of the commercial banks to provide participating
branches with the ability to send payments to and receive payments from foreign correspondents.

3.3.6. Commercial Bank's Institutional Strengthening. This component consisted of (i)
diagnostic reviews of the commercial banks' modernization needs, emphasizing particularly the
design of appropriate customer accounting systems; and (ii) diagnostic portfolio reviews and
financial audits of the commercial banks to determine their true financial situation. The diagnostic
reviews of the commercial banks' modernization needs were to be implemented in two stages as



                                                   - 4 -

follows: (i) drafting of detailed terms of reference tailored to the specific situation of each
commercial bank undertaken by consultants hired through the PHRD preparation grant; and (ii)
implementing diagnostic reviews for each commercial bank, based on the agreed terms of
reference to be undertaken within the project time frame.

3.3.7. Project Management Support. In anticipation of the complexity of the implementation
process, the credit provided support to carry out the project management activities above and
included consulting services for the procurement of the systems and technical support to the
Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU, which assumed the management and coordination
of the project, was established in September 1995 under the SBV to oversee the implementation
of the project. Its responsibilities included: (i) coordination of the day-to-day implementation
activities; (ii) administration of the credit; and (iii) focus for Bank supervision activities. The
PMU was expected to be staffed with qualified personnel who were involved in the preparation of
the project and were trained through the support of the PHRD project preparation grant. It was
expected that as the project proceeded through each phase, the PMU would need to respond to
the changing requirements and changing of the relative importance among the different functions
through the project implementation period. The Bank sought assurance at negotiations that the
PMU be maintained with adequate and capable staff for the life of the project. An experienced
technical specialist would be appointed as a Resident Advisor to counsel the PMU on technical,
project management and vendor contract matters, given the complexity of the project and the
fast-changing technology environment in the computerized systems. The project envisaged an
important role for the Resident Advisor who was expected to be in place prior to contract
negotiations and available for consultation with the PMU during system construction and pilot
operation for any vendor-proposed change orders and system design modifications.

3.3.8. Implementation. While the outcomes were clearly defined through the above-mentioned
components, the implementation and the mechanism to realize these activities were critical for the
project to deliver the intended results. Implementation procedures were specified for the
interbank system, including procurement of supplier, in four phases: (i) construction (systems
specification, site preparation and installation, system testing and training plans, documentation
and disaster recovery plan and drill); (ii) initial pilot for selected sites (new settlement accounts
and parallel old and new systems), (iii) pilot expansion (for remaining sites, on-site training,
testing and de-commissions of the old payment system; and (iv) operation and maintenance.

3.3.9. Given the complexity of the project and the unfamiliarity of the PMU staff with the World
Bank's procurement procedures, the staff appraisal report (SAR) gave specific instructions and
established a detailed road map to guide the PMU. Bank staff conducted workshops and other
training activities to bring the SBV staff up to date in the administration of the project and related
issues. The project envisaged detailed indicators for performance monitoring, reporting and
supervision to ensure that the system meet the stated needs of the users and generate the planned
improvements. These indicators along with the implementation progress and development impact
indicators were provided in the SAR. The PMU was mandated to provide semi-annual progress
reports on the status of on-going and planned project activities. From the Bank's side, a
supervision plan was also outlined in details.




                                                    - 5 -

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1. Components were not revised, although there were some adjustments made to the way the
commercial banks' intra-bank payment systems were procured. The delay in starting up the
project meant that the single procurement strategy on the basis of a common commercial bank
solution became unsuitable in 1996. The Commercial Bank Payment System (CBPS) was no
longer the generalized architecture to accommodate the varying needs of the commercial banks as
they had implemented some internal systems improvement and were no longer at a similar level of
development. Subsequently, the initial single large turn-key contract envisaged in the SAR was
divided into two major components (IBPS and six intra-bank systems). Accordingly, the
procurement arrangements were modified with the drawing up of a contract for each of the
commercial banks to accommodate the new reality at these banks. The project in effect had six
sub-projects and each of the six commercial banks was given authority to manage their own
component.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1 The design of the project was rated satisfactory and was based on extensive financial
sector work by Bank staff. Two Bank financial sector reports assessed Vietnam's needs in this
sector and identified the priority activities in this sector. Further consultation and close
cooperation with the government resulted in the agreement to begin the activities to modernize
the financial sector and banking system with the Payment System and Bank Modernization
Project. The preparation of the project was undertaken with careful consideration of the current
situation of the banking system in terms of technology, capacity of the banking system and its
operators, human resources and management capacity, as well as the absorption capacity of the
sector.

3.5.2 The preparatory work and training were emphasized for SBV officials who would manage
and oversee the banking sector and implement the interbank payment system and for management
and employees of the commercial banks who would carry out the individual sub-components of
the project. Bank staff took care to prepare training programs and workshops for these officials
to upgrade their knowledge and know-how prior to and during the preparation of the project. A
PHRD grant helped finance these training programs, workshops and study tours. In addition,
there were detailed preparation and emphasis on the timely transfer of technology to the
Vietnamese and the appropriateness of the new systems and their ability to accommodate future
growth and system improvement. Initial pilot programs were designed and set up for each of the
components with the required fine-tuning of the new system to ensure its reliability prior to
general implementation. Close attention was also paid to the implementation of the project
through detailed monitoring and supervision plans to ensure reasonable and appropriate progress.
These included monitoring and progress indicators as well as periodical implementation reports
and field visits.

3.5.3 Bank staff and government officials highlighted the needs to establish an appropriate legal
and regulatory framework and conducive legal environment for the new payment system
arrangements. These involved actions of appropriate Vietnamese ministries and agencies beside


                                                   - 6 -

the SBV, including the ministries of Finance, Interior, Justice, and Planning and Investment, the
Office of Government, and the National Assembly and its Standing Committee.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 Achievement of Development Objectives - IBPS. At the project's closure on December
31, 2003, the project was rated satisfactory and has achieved its original objectives: to assist in
the development of a modern banking sector capable of servicing the growing needs of an
expanding economy -- albeit in a longer time frame than originally envisaged. With the support
and financing from this project, the IBPS at the SBV was put into live operation in May 2002.
The IBPS has vastly improved the payment services in the economy by successfully reducing float
(from up to 30 days in mid-1995 to less than 24 hours today), accelerating circulation of funds
and increasing efficiency of funds transmission, while providing convenience and service to users.
The velocity of money (measured as the ratio of GNP to the total supply of money) has moved
from an estimated 1.9 in 1994 to 1.4 in 2003, the trend which is also found in other transitional
economies with stabilization programs in place and low inflation.                 (2)



            (2)
                IMF, "Explaining and Forecasting the Velocity of Money in Transition Economies, with Special Reference
            to the Baltics, Russia and other Countries of the Former Soviet Union," by M. De Broeck, K. Krajnyak, and H.
            Lorie, IMF Working Paper WP/97/108, September 1997.


4.1.2 Available statistics on the operation of the IBPS since its introduction show a steady
increase in the volume of transactions and their value.

Item                                      2001                            2002                          2003
Volume of Transactions                    207,246                        257,521                        309,275
Value (billion dong)                   1,082,000                       1,233,000                     1,384,000
Source: ITDB, SBV.


4.1.3 Participants in the IBPS system in early 2004 are as follows:

Region/City                 State-owned             Joint             Foreign          Joint Stock            Total
                              financial          Ventures              Banks               Banks
                            institutions
Hanoi                              39                  6                 12                   9                  66
Hai Phong                           8                  2                  -                   4                  14
Ho Chi Minh City                   44                  4                 14                  15                  77
Danang                              6                  1                  -                   7                  14
Can Tho                             7                  1                  -                   6                  14
Total                            104                  14                 26                  41                185
Source: ITDB, SBV.




                                                            - 7 -

4.1.4 The share of non-cash payments in the total transactions via the payment systems has
increased steadily since 1999.

    1997               1998              1999               2000               2001               2002              2003
   69.2%              73.4%             70.9%              75.0%              75.0%              76.0%             77.0%
Source: ITDB, SBV.


4.1.5 The establishment of the IBPS in Vietnam and the expected links to SWIFT will also
position Vietnam in good stead to facilitate the implementation of the US BTA, to fulfill its
obligations under AFTA and ASEAN agreements, and to meet the requirements of the WTO, a
further step toward the gateway for global markets.

4.1.6 Achievement of Development Objectives ­ CBPS. The intra-bank and commercial bank
systems at the six commercial banks were made operational between 2002 and 2003. The
intra-bank system has strengthened the institutional capabilities of participating banks and
stimulated initiatives to improve their internal procedures, structure, management and customer
services. Table 2 summarizes the outcome of the CBPS at the participating commercial banks
                                     (3)
and their operating modules.

Table 2. Commercial Bank Payment System ­ Outcome


    Participating                Total            Branches Connected to the New Core                      Operating

         Banks               Number of                          Banking System                              Module
                              Branches               Number                 % of Total Branches
       VBARD                     1,900                  115                               6.1                 11
         BIDV                      160                     8                              5.0                 10
      Incombank                    124                    53                             42.7                 12
     Vietcombank                    53                    26                             49.1                    9
       Eximbank                      9                     6                             66.7                    8
    Maritimebank                     7                     7                           100.0                  13

Note:    Level I and level II branches.
Source: ITDB, SBV.

         (3)
             Modules refer to specific banking functions and include: ATM Module covering electronic banking services;
         Branch Automation Module to cover branch business management; Centralized Customer Information Module or
         Customer database management; Data Warehouse Module: database and communication management activities;
         Deposit Module for checking and savings accounts with capability for term management, interest calculation, and
         currency conversion; General Ledger Module with income and expense analysis tools and accounting; Human
         Resource Module for personnel management and records; Internal Accounting covering core cost accounting
         activities; Loan Module covering lending ,credit rating and leasing activities; MIS Module for information
         management activities; Remittance Module covering payments service; Trade Finance Module covering trade
         financing activities; Treasury Module for baking operations such as derivatives, securities management, trading,
         portfolio management tools, asset management tools and other tools in monetary markets


4.1.7 Project Implementation. This credit was among the very first batch of projects approved
by the Board during the mid-1990s as Vietnam resumed its borrowing from the Bank. The



                                                             - 8 -

complexity of a large and multifaceted system development project posed a serious challenge to
the Borrower in carrying out the proposed activities, and exacerbated the unfamiliarity of the
officials at the SBV with the Bank's procurement procedures and guidelines, especially the
two-stage bidding process and contract writing. There was also uncertainty at the beginning
implementation stage due to the unclear assignment of responsibilities for project management
between the actual PMU and the Informatics Technology Department of the SBV (ITDB). To
allow a more accurate assessment of the activities supported by the project, the implementation
stage is separated into two phases. Phase One includes the start of the project until the arrival of
the new task manager in 1999. Phase Two covers the period from 1999 to the closure of the
project in 2003.

4.1.8 Project Implementation ­ Phase One. During this phase, the project was classified as a
problem project due to the slow pace of implementation and recommendations were made for its
cancellation. On the Bank's side, the slow beginning was due to the time and effort needed to
resolve a complaint of unfair bidding process by one of the unsuccessful bidders to the IBPS. The
complaint alleged that the lowest bidder did not meet the quality requirements and that the
imprecise nature of the consortium of consultants which did not allow for clear legal obligations
of all the consultants involved in the contract. The World Bank took about one year to address
this complaint fully and found that there was no irregular activity relating to the procurement
procedures as followed by the SBV according to the amount of evidence available. Appropriate
approach to the bidding process and bidding evaluation was administered by SBV officials
according to the Bank's procurement guidelines in effect at that time. However, as a result of
this complaint, the Bank clarified the steps in its procurement procedures to avoid future
misunderstandings in the language of the World Bank Procurement Guidelines with clearer
                                                                                                           (4)
definition of consortium of consultants and their legal obligations within the contract.

        (4)
           The Bank's Procurement Guidelines provide a clearer definition of consultants and consortium of consultants and
        their legal obligations. See World Bank, Consulting Services Manual: A Comprehensive Guide to Selection of
        Consultants (2002), Section 14.3 ­ 3.3, p. 83.


4.1.9 The project was the very first one in Vietnam which called for a complex two-stage
bidding process and contract writing and the amount of preparation and training envisaged and
carried out ahead of time could not be translated readily into action. To exacerbate the delay, the
PMU did not have a strong leadership nor a clear mandate to undertake the first step towards
implementation which required in-depth IT knowledge and close cooperation from the ITDB. At
the same time, the appointment of the Resident Advisor was delayed, thus there was no available
assistance to the government in dealing with vendor contract matters (negotiations, change in
proposed orders, etc) and technical management (system design modifications, etc).

4.1.10 In 1998, however, the SBV completed the selection of consultants to implement the IBPS.
Stage 1 bidding was initiated in January 1998 and completed in August 1998. Financial bids for
Stage 2 were undertaken in November 1998, thus providing a positive step toward the
implementation of the IBPS and the beginning of Phase Two of the project implementation stage.
During Phase One, it should be noted that the suppliers continued to work with the PMU in good
faith to prepare and design the systems that eventually were implemented. Without the continued



                                                          - 9 -

effort of the consulting firms on preparatory work, the project would have suffered further delays.
Bank staff also continued to provide advice and efforts to move the implementation activities
forward through supervision missions, assistance in consultant selection and technical and IT
input.

4.1.11 Project Implementation ­ Phase Two. In 1999, SBV senior management appointed a
strong management team for the PMU and put it directly under the ITDB management, i.e., the
ITDB Director was also the PMU Director. With this appointment, the project began to take its
first breath of life. The appointment of a Resident Advisor to SBV contributed to expedite the
resolution of all remaining technical and procurement issues and improved the dialogue with
suppliers and consultants. Following the Stage 2 bidding activities, the contract award was signed
for the design and implementation of the IBPS in late 1999.

4.1.12 At the same time, the newly constituted World Bank project team -- put together in late
1999 -- contributed to the acceleration of the project's implementation through better and more
focused supervision and dialogue with the PMU and its staff. In December 1999, the project was
taken off the list of problem projects (so classified since late 1996) and within a few months the
project's rating was changed to satisfactory and the two-stage bidding procurement processes for
the six participating commercial banks' sub-projects were initiated. Due to the inexperience of
the commercial bank staff in dealing with such a complex procurement exercise, the process took
considerably longer than normal and therefore, the project's closing date had to be extended to
ensure full implementation of each of the sub-projects. The implementation of the systems for the
participating commercial banks is discussed in details in Section 4.2 Outputs by Components.

4.1.13 Results of the Quality Assessment Group (QAG) findings. A Quality of Supervision
Assessment was carried out by a QAG panel of reviewers for this project in October 2002. The
QAG findings concluded that the project was "satisfactory overall with a high prospect of
sustainability. All the beneficiary institutions are now fully in charge of implementation and seem
                                                                     (5)
to have trained staff to address implementation problems."                     The QAG Assessment noted
that the project at the beginning stage encountered major problems because of the poor
understanding among the beneficiaries of the technical complexities of the project, exacerbated by
the lack of technical staff. The QAG Assessment also noted that SBV was at first unfamiliar with
the Bank's procurement procedures and project implementation arrangements, while learning at
the same time how to deal with foreign consultants for the first time in many instances. The
project may have been a bit premature for the country in 1994-96, but judging from the results
achieved, there is no doubt that the project was key for the development of the financial sector in
Vietnam.

            (5)
               Quality Assessment Group (QAG), Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5), Banking System
            Modernization Project, October 11, 2002.


4.1.14. From 1999, the QAG assessment agreed with the appropriateness and adequacy of actions
by the Bank to resolve the difficulties above, leading to the fruitful effort to reactivate the project
and to bring it not only to a successful but also sustainable end.



                                                     - 10 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Project Component 1. National Inter-bank Payment Clearing and Settlement System (IBPS).

4.2.1 The IBPS is the largest component of the project, accounting for $13.2 million of the
credit's total amount ($49 million). The system was completely installed by April 2001 after 18
months of implementation and was largely fine-tuned by September 2001. In May 2002, the
system was formally made operational after a government decree gave the legal validity to
electronic signatures. The IBPS has been successfully implemented as discussed earlier (paras.
4.1.1 ­ 4.1.4) and well accepted by the users as shown by the following statistics:

Item                                              Original Target                Current
Average transaction volume                             4,500                      10,000
Peak transaction volume                                8,000                      12,000
Number of participating banks                            7                          51
Number of participating branches                       150                         190
Source: ITDB, SBV.



4.2.2 Despite the success of the system, there is a concern regarding the capacity of the system.
Indeed, the ICR mission found that this concern was expressed in every meeting with participating
banks in the system as well as with the ITDB at its headquarters and also managers of the
branches. To ease this constraint to the system's capacity, the low-value sub-system was put into
live operation in Hanoi in November 2003 and it is expected that additional locations will follow
during 2004. It is therefore expected that about 30 percent of the current large value transactions
will migrate to the low-value system, easing the capacity constraints of the system. To date,
available data in May 2004 show that high-value transactions accounted for 98.8 percent of total
transactions and about 1.2 percent was for low-value transactions. The World Bank team, during
its last supervision mission in November 2003, supported the SBV-ITDB proposal to immediately
increase the capacity of the servers both in the Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City Processing Centers as
an interim solution while the follow-up project was being prepared. The ICR mission reported
that the resources required (US$35,000 to US$45,000) have been approved by the SBV and the
servers will be upgraded in the first half of calendar year 2004. As such, this constraint has been
taken into account in the design of the follow-up proposed project which is scheduled to be
presented to the Bank's Board in the second quarter of FY2005.

4.2.3 Another measure of success came from the users of the system. Participating banks have
been very pleased with the IBPS because it has increased the speed of transactions processing,
reduced the manual work of branch staff and most importantly enabled the banks to provide
substantially improved service to their customers (Annex 8 on Press Coverage of the IBPS). The
ICR mission found the positive reaction to the IBPS in all of the meetings with participating banks
who clearly stated that they can no longer operate without the IBPS.




                                                 - 11 -

Project Component 2: Commercial Bank's Intra-bank Payment Systems.

4.2.4 This component was broken down into six sub-components for the six commercial banks
(four SOCBs and two JSBs). As discussed above, once the procurement complaint was cleared
(para. 4.1.8), the sub-projects were implemented one by one during 1998-2003. The six
commercial banks organized their bidding processes to select their suppliers. In November 2001,
the Maritimebank was the first commercial bank to complete the process and signed a contract
with its supplier. VBARD followed suit and signed a contract with its supplier in January 2002.
The rest of the commercial banks completed their bidding processes between February and March
of 2002.

        Participating Banks, their Suppliers, and Contract Dates

        Bank                                          Supplier             Contract Date
        Maritimebank                                  Silverlake           November 2001
       VBARD                                          Hyundai               January 2002
       BIDV                                           Silverlake            February 2002
       Incombank                                      Silverlake             March 2002
       Vietcombank                                    Silverlake             March 2002
        Eximbank                                      Hyundai                March 2002

        Source: ITDB, SBV.


4.2.5    The implementation and workplan for each of the sub-projects were on schedule and the
activities were completed by the closing date on December 31, 2003. The last supervision
mission in November 2003 found that the all commercial banks had been working well with their
suppliers. The ICR mission confirmed that all the agreed activities had been completed on
schedule. These activities included the payment and core banking systems which had been made
operational at different branch locations. As with any new system, there are needs for some
fine-tuning and for ironing out certain errors to ensure that the systems are working smoothly.
The results from the six commercial banks are presented below.

4.2.6 Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV). The new system in operation
consisted of ten separate modules implemented at BIDV's headquarters and in its seven branches
as planned. BIDV had been working with the supplier to ensure that the remaining modifications
to the software would be in place. Staff training to operate the new system has also been
completed and BIDV personnel are confident that they will be able to support the systems
operations from a technical perspective. The last supervision mission noted that the project
supervision consultants from Pricewaterhouse Coopers confirmed that the new system was
working well and had been accepted by BIDV employees.

4.2.7    Industrial and Commercial Bank (Incombank). The new system with 12 separate
modules was installed and has been operating in the five pilot branches. While the implementation
of the ATM and Internet modules were deferred to effect some modifications, all the day-by-day
transactions were processed properly with no delays. Information was readily available to bank



                                                - 12 -

personnel and customers, and end-of-day procedures were effected without any substantial
difficulties. The system was able to process some 10,000 non-financial transactions and up to
6,000 financial transactions on a daily basis. Incombank strategy called for the introduction of the
new system simultaneously into the five branches to save time; this was done successfully as the
supplier and the project supervision consultants provided a "command center" for immediate
expert support. There was, however, some concern among Incombank management and staff at
the branch level on the change in the core banking systems and its effect on Incombank
operations. The last Bank supervision mission urged the Incombank senior management to take
proactive steps to allay these concerns and to convince its staff of the value of the new
computer-based banking system as key for successful banking and the inevitable tool for
Incombank viability and profitability in the future. The final acceptance test which was pending
during the ICR mission in January 2004, was finally carried out and the system became fully
operational at all pilot branches in February 2004.

4.2.8    Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD). The formal technical
implementation of the system was completed and the new core banking was installed and in full
working order in some 45 branches. The fine-tuning of the system continues as staff and supplier
are learning and perfecting the operation of the new system. VBARD management is now
working with staff to ensure there is enough internal capacity to assume the operational
responsibility for all aspects of the new system following the handover by the supplier.
Transitional measures have also been put in place to ensure a smooth transfer of responsibility.

4.2.9 Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam (Vietcombank). The new system was put into
operation toward the end of 2003 and staff of Vietcombank assumed overall responsibility for the
system's operation in December. All the modules have been operational with minimum problems.
During the implementation, Vietcombank specified some modifications to the system ­ in the
trade finance and treasury modules ­ which were being completed by the supplier to ensure a
satisfactory outcome and approval from Vietcombank's management.

4.2.10 Vietnam Export Import Bank (Eximbank). The new system was put into live operation
towards the end of 2003 once the data migration between the old and the new system was
completed. Eximbank's management is satisfied with the results of the migration and the
reliability of the new system. Furthermore, Eximbank has made arrangements with the supplier to
upgrade the server to meet the larger than expected number of users. The system was designed
for the use of approximately 64 users and is now reaching almost 200 users, thus the need to
increase the capacity of the server.

4.2.11 Vietnam Maritime Commercial Stock Bank (Maritimebank). Maritimebank has
successfully implemented all the banking modules in all its branches. The technical transfer was
effectively made and staff of Maritimebank are now confidently managing and operating the new
system. With no outstanding implementation issues, Maritimebank has been focusing on how best
to use the new system to provide the most benefit to its customers.




                                                - 13 -

Project Component 3: Commercial Banks' Institutional Strengthening

4.2.12 The project financed (i) diagnostic reviews of the commercial banks' modernization needs,
emphasizing particularly the design of appropriate customer accounting systems; and (ii)
diagnostic portfolio reviews and financial audits of the commercial banks to determine their true
financial situation. These diagnostic reviews were undertaken for each bank by consultants who
were competitively selected. The outputs of these reviews described the ways in which modern
Information Technology could be used to assist each bank achieve its business objectives. In
essence, the outputs of these reviews became the inputs for the specific procurements of IT
Systems and Equipment for each bank. The specifics of the IT systems to be procured were
designed to address the needs of each bank in terms of Management Information, Decision
Support Systems and Application System needs to support the electronic delivery and
management of a range of modern banking products and services. The outputs also described the
specific computer processing and telecommunications requirements of each bank.

4.2.13 Staff training and institutional strengthening have been undertaken as a matter of course
with the introduction of the new system at each commercial bank. This is to ensure that staff of
the commercial banks can be confident in managing and operating the new system. With the new
banking practices, each commercial bank has also introduced changes to its internal procedures,
as well as in its managerial and administrative structures to accommodate and adjust to the new
system which is more customer-oriented and demands centralization of management and
administrative style.

Project Component 4: Project Management Support

4.2.14 Toward the second half of the life of the project, the PMU was very effective and
proactive in the implementation of the project. In fact, the successful implementation of the
project was due to a strong PMU and its staff who performed well in their role as the manager of
the project, especially in undertaking the IBPS implementation, and in playing a key role in the
dialogue between SBV senior management, the Bank, and the six commercial banks. The strong
presence of the Director contributed to a successful outcome of the project, turning things around
as he assumed leadership of the PMU.

4.2.15 The project benefited from the Bank's new task manager who was able to devote time and
effort in reactivating the dialogue and the supervision with the PMU and its staff. Better
supervision and better monitoring contributed to the satisfactory outcome from the Bank's side.

4.2.16 This was in contrast with Phase One of the project's implementation when responsibility of
the PMU and that of the ITDB in terms of actual IT implementation were not clearly defined by
SBV senior management. Without an effective PMU and the cooperation of the ITDB, the
project floundered at the beginning, exacerbated by the SBV unfamiliarity with Bank procedures
and process at the time when Vietnam just resumed borrowing from the Bank.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1. Not applicable. However, the project would improve the efficiency of resource allocation


                                                - 14 -

and hence returns on investment generally.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1. Not applicable. While the project did not have a financial rate of return in a direct
measurable way, there are other measurable improvements that make up for this. The IBPS has
facilitated the transfer of funds and has made possible the use of new non-cash payment methods.
The commercial bank systems have improved the efficiency of the participating commercial banks
and the number of services offered to clients. Overall, the new systems are contributing to the
establishment of cost accounting systems that will allow a more accurate calculation of financial
benefits in the future.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. The project's institutional development impact was substantial. The traditional ways in
which financial transactions were performed (by hand and via paper-based activities) and how the
banking sector operates (involving human monitoring and control) were dramatically changed
with the installation of the IBPS and the CBPS. Parallel changes introduced to the infrastructure
of the banking system and its legal and regulatory framework are also expected to be long lasting.
The new systems have revolutionized the way bank officers perform their duties and have
redefined their responsibilities accordingly. This project was a key building block for the
development of the banking sector and its future expansion will allow further improvements.

4.5.2. For the SBV, the IBPS has facilitated the electronic transfer of funds and accelerated
payment services, reducing float, speeding up circulation of funds and increasing the efficiency of
funds transmission, while providing convenience and services to users (paras. 4.1.1-4.1.2). The
IBPS has also made possible the use of new non-cash payment methods (para. 4.1.4). In addition,
the systems will allow a closer and more effective monitoring of the banking sector through the
IBPS. Senior bank officials could now devote more time to policy-making activities in order to
improve the sector's performance. The monitoring and surveillance functions of SBV are
becoming more effective and less time consuming as data are now available more regularly,
allowing for fast and efficient reporting.

4.5.3. For the commercial banks' management, the new system will provide them a timely and
accurate picture of the bank's daily operations (including those from the branches) that they can
use for timely decision-making purposes, improve its operations where needed, increase the
number of banking products and services for the benefits of their customers and to attract new
ones. All the modules installed contributed to the changes in banking services and management,
including ATM, internet banking, etc. The basic managerial structure of each of the commercial
banks has started to change in order to take full advantage of the new systems. Branch managers
could now focus on activities to expand their customer base and the range of services while
spending less time on reporting and data management. Banking services become more
transparent and easily monitored. In response to these changes, the institutional capabilities of
participating banks have been strengthened with many initiatives to improve internal management
of the banking activities, including in particular the introduction of risk management in their
portfolios.



                                                 - 15 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. The unfamiliarity among bank officials with the requirements of the banking and financial
sector acted as an initial obstacle to the implementation of the project despite the amount of
training provided. Further, the limited level of IT knowledge among officials was an initial
constraint for the project despite extensive training provided.

5.1.2. The rapid changes in the technology environment constituted a serious challenge to the
implementing agency, affecting the activities related to system design and implementation,
especially in this project where technology was key for its successful implementation.

5.1.3. The IT expertise and proper knowledge of the banking sector in Vietnam among vendors
and suppliers which were crucial for the appropriate design and implementation of all the systems
were not under the control of the implementing agency.

5.1.4. The speed and the changes required of the legal and regulatory framework might not be
timely for the implementation of the project.

5.1.5. The complaint by one of the bidders on the procurement process which delayed the
project was outside of the control of the government and the implementing agency (para. 4.1.8).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. The government's appointment of the PMU staff and its manager allowed the PMU to
play a leadership and coordinating role effectively.

5.2.2. The selection of the resident advisor for the project ­ which was delayed ­ was a key
factor in ensuring the satisfactory implementation of the project.

5.2.3. Issuance of decrees and regulatory measures by the SBV and related ministries and
agencies provided the appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the system to operate.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1. The implementation agency oversaw the overall management of the consultants, the
suppliers and the vendors, coordinated the activities with all the participating banks to bring about
the timely completion and successful operation of the new systems.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1. The base project cost (financed by IDA) was estimated at SDR$32.9 million (US$49
million equivalent) and the total project cost was US$53.9 million equivalent. The foreign



                                                     - 16 -

component accounted for about 92 percent of total cost. The disbursement figure was SDR 29.1
million (US$40.16 million equivalent), and the balance of SDR 3.8 million (US$5.5 million
equivalent) was cancelled on April 30, 2004. There are two main reasons for the canceled
amount. First, hardware costs dropped considerably over time. With the project start-up delays,
the hardware estimates presented by the suppliers were below the budgeted amount under the
original SAR. Secondly, the two-stage bidding process and the importance of the weight given to
the financial proposals also helped reduce the overall costs for each of the commercial banks.
Thus, the government managed some savings in this project.

5.4.2. The project followed the Bank procurement guidelines. However, there was a complaint
from a unsuccessful bidder challenging the qualifications of the lowest evaluated bidder which is
discussed in details in para. 4.1.8. The Bank's ruling was that the complaint was not valid as the
SBV followed the World Bank's guidelines in performing the bidding process and that the lowest
bidder was qualified.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1. The overall project sustainability is rated "likely" at its closure, achieving its planned
development objectives, despite the problems and delays faced during the first stage of the
project's implementation. The IBPS and the CBPS sub-components have been completed
successfully and the project has helped the SBV to build a solid infrastructure in the banking
sector on which further enhancements could be made for it to grow and to meet the demand of
the economy.

6.1.2. Convinced of the usefulness and soundness of the IBPS and the CBPS systems, the
government and the commercial banks have made firm commitments to use their own resources
to maintain and upgrade the systems as required and to initiate the roll-out of the systems to
additional locations. In particular, the SBV allocated its own fund to upgrade the servers for the
IBPS in both Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City before the planned expansion to be financed by the
follow-up project. This will ensure the smooth operation of the system and will allow IBPS to
meet the anticipated increase in demand during 2004 and to ensure that the system continue to
deliver its services to the banking sector safely and reliably. Thus, the IBPS would continue to
operate and would be upgraded as necessary to maintain and enhance the services to the banking
sector, sustaining the activities initiated by this project.

6.1.3. Commercial banks have also made additional investments from their own funds to help
improve their system. All but one bank have expressed their strong interest in participating in the
follow up project. At the same time, new banks have sought to participate in the follow-up
project as they see the benefit of the system to strengthen their position in the increasingly
competitive banking business. However, to accommodate the urgent needs of the participating
banks the World Bank and the government agreed to proceed with the follow-up project using the
new repeater project guidelines. This means that only the banks participating in the current
project are eligible for the follow-up project. To accommodate the demands from other banks, a
subsequent operation is under discussion with the government and has been included in the CAS



                                                   - 17 -

for FY2006.

6.1.4. The project's IBPS and CBPS components have instituted valuable and practical building
blocks in the banking sector that contributed to sustain the government's overall banking reform
program and the project's development objectives. The valuable contribution of the IBPS to the
banking sector in particular and the economy in general were no longer questioned, rather the
concern is how to keep the system operating without disruption and how to enhance and upgrade
it further to meet the growing needs of the sector (Annex 8 on the Press Coverage).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. The project will be followed up with a proposed repeater project, the Payment System and
Banking Modernization Project 1.2, which seeks to expand and upgrade the scope of the IBPS
and its coverage and the intra-bank systems of the commercial banks. Preparation has been
underway for the proposed repeater project with an expected Board presentation in the second
quarter of FY2005.

6.2.2. The subsequent operation planned for FY2006, the Financial Sector Modernization and
Information System project, will provide financing for joint-stock banks and other financial
institutions for the modernization of their banking system. This proposed project will also provide
support to the SBV to improve its management and credit reporting systems and strengthen its
supervisory capacity. Another operation, the Rural Finance 3 project, is also under discussion and
the Financial Sector Team will ensure full consistency with the overall bank reform agenda.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1     Lending:

7.1.1. In the early 1990s, as Vietnam rejoined the international community and resumed its
membership in the World Bank Group, there were a lot of activities and efforts by the Bank's
managerial team and staff to seek to narrow the gap of knowledge between Vietnam and the
world in general and in the financial sector in particular. The project was the result of extensive
work on the financial sector that cumulated in two financial sector reports analyzing the current
financial situation in Vietnam and assessing the needs to modernize this sector.

7.1.2. The Bank's performance in the project identification activity is rated satisfactory. The
project was designed to address an initial critical bottleneck in the banking sector, as identified by
the two in-depth studies of the financial sector in Vietnam. A large amount of time was dedicated
by Bank staff to improve and deepen the knowledge of the banking officials regarding modern
banking technologies and the needs for a well-defined legal framework for the new systems.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1. The Bank's performance in the overall supervision of the project was satisfactory, with



                                                  - 18 -

efforts on the part of the Bank to keep the activities going during the first stage of the project
while the issue on procurement and responsibility of the PMU were being addressed in Phase One.
With the appointment of a new task manager during Phase Two, the implementation began to
build its momentum. The new task manager worked proactively to improve the implementation
of the project and help bring it to a successful completion.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory in this project, albeit with some need
for qualification during the initial stage of project implementation due to the issues facing the
project in its early years. While the Bank accurately identified the activities needed by the
Borrower as the latter embarked on the modernization of the banking and financial sector, it could
not mitigate some of the anticipated risks relating to the unfamiliarity of the Borrower with the
Bank procedures and processes. However, Bank staff provided close support, supervision and
close coordination with the government, the PMU and the implementing agencies in the second
stage of the project in order to carry out the planned activities and bring the project to a
successful end.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1. The government's role in the preparation was satisfactory. It has shown its commitment
at the highest level to the modernization of the Vietnamese economy in general and the banking
sector in particular. Close and effective dialogue with the Bank's management has also helped to
bring about a responsive Bank assistance to the country.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1. The government's performance was relatively satisfactory as a whole, despite a period of
inaction at the beginning phase during which the project appeared to flounder without an effective
PMU and no clear allocation of responsibility. The inability to appoint quickly the Resident
Advisor also threatened the viability of the project due to the inexperience of the Borrower in
dealing with the complexity of implementing a large IT-dominated project. Once the senior
management focused its attention on the implementation of this project with a Deputy Governor
overseeing the project, the SBV proceeded with the restructuring of the PMU and provided its
unwavering support to carry out the planned activities for a successful completion.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1. After a period of inaction due to ineffective management and rivalry between the units of
the SBV which covered the project, the PMU was staffed with a strong Director and adequate
officials. The project benefited tremendously from this change and was implemented
satisfactorily. The strong PMU was key to bringing about the changes and progress needed to
turn the project from a problem project into a successful one at its closure.




                                                  - 19 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1. The government's overall performance was satisfactory. Through its commitment to the
modernization of the banking sector and of the project in particular, SBV senior management has
provided their strong support to carry out successfully this project, despite some difficulties and
inaction at the beginning due to the unfamiliarity with Bank's procedures and processes and due
to an initial lack of consensus in the government on how best to carry out the project.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1.     The major lessons are:

·        Overall strong support and ownership from the Borrower during project preparation and
implementation contributed to the successful completion of the project.
·        A strong, knowledgeable and well-staffed PMU was required to deal with the complex
procurement processes and to meet the demands from participating commercial banks and the
World Bank.
·        Legal and regulatory changes have to go hand-in-hand with the introduction of a new
banking system so that they can provide timely and consistent legal support and build a legal
environment basis for the new banking system to operate effectively.
·        Close supervision by the Bank's task manager ensured that the project's implementation
schedule was on track. Close coordination between the Bank and the PMU during the
implementation stage ensured smooth procurement services and timely solutions to bottlenecks.
·        Clear operational guidelines within the Bank are needed to avoid adverse effects on the
supervision and implementation of the project in the client country, particularly when the Bank
has to resolve disputes arising from the implementation of its guidelines.
·        Time frame required for institutional-building operations: The project was extended two
times (for a total period of three and a half years) so that activities under various components
could be completed. The time actually taken to introduce fundamental changes in the banking
sector and institutional building as well as consultant requirements will need to be acknowledged
in planning similar projects with a technical assistance feature.
·        Capacity building and institutional development activities that effectively address critical
needs of an economy in transition in general and of the banking sector in particular can be
sustained with ease beyond the life of the project. This project has demonstrated that basic
building blocks that directly match the requirements of the banking sector could easily be
sustained.
·        Clearer procurement procedures and guidelines help to better address complaints in the
procurement process. This project has contributed to the revision of the Bank procurement
guidelines for better definition of various procurement steps and qualification of the vendors.
Clear guidance will be needed to help recipients define different stages of completion within a
turn-key contract.
·        Given the substantial human resources capacity constraints common in the client
countries, especially with projects that require high level IT knowledge and serious implications
for the effectiveness of the IT operating system, the need to focus on manpower training will be
critical for the successful implementation of these projects.
·        Technical systems such as the IBPS and intrabank payment system require a back-up


                                                 - 20 -

system as a critical matter of security for the banking sector as a whole and for the concerned
bank in particular.
·      Physical security and integrity of the IBPS and CBPS systems need to be considered as the
highest priority to protect the systems with concrete policies and security measures, such as
regulated access, firewall mechanisms, penalties and discipline, etc. to prevent potential fraud and
abuse.
·      Clear definitions and guidelines regarding verification and acceptance of deliverables as
well as billing and payment procedures should be established up front to avoid long payment
delays to suppliers and consultants.




                                                 - 21 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                     - 22 -

ITDB                                          STATE BANK OF VIETNAM
                                  INFORMATICSTECHNOLOGYDEPARTMENTOFTHEBANK
                                         64 Nguyen Chi Thanh street - Dong Da - Hanoi
                                              Tel: 844 8344093 - Fax: 844 8345180
                                                                         Tuesday, May 04, 2004

To:             Mr. Miguel Navarro-Martin
                       Senior Financial Sector Specialist
                       East Asia and Pacific Region
                       The World Bank
                       Washington, D.C. 20433

From:           Dr. Ta Quang Tien
                Director
                ITDB/SBV

      Subject: Payment System and Bank Modernization Project ­ Credit No. 2785-VN


Dear Mr. Navarro-Martin:

 The Payment System and Bank Modernization Project (Credit No. 2785-VN), funded by the
 World Bank (WB) under the Development Credit Agreement No. 2785-VN was
 successfully completed on December 31, 2003 (closing date of the Development Credit
 Agreement). We highly appreciate the efficient, continuous assistance and close cooperation
 extended to the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) from the WB's staff. SBV has carried out its
 own sub-project and gave out guidance to all participating commercial banks to implement
 their own sub-component following strictly the proposed objectives. Participating banks
 have built a modern technology infrastructure, appropriate with the development trend of the
 economy in accordance with international standards. The project has created an urgent need
 for researching and completing all necessary legal framework which will be the foundation
 for the operation of the system.

 Through the project, commercial banks have launched some safe, efficient and modern
 products and services such as: ATM services, real time payment services, credit
 management, fund transfers ... creating more efficiency in banking activities, consolidating
 the trust in the banking sector by the public.

The project has met the proposed objectives:
 ·   To establish the Inter-Bank Payment System and the Intra-Bank Payment Systems of the
     commercial banks applying the most advanced technology to modernize the banking and
     payment systems, meet the new development requirements of the economy;
 ·   To strengthen the managing and controlling roles of banks in implementing the
     monetary policy, credit and banking services;
 ·   To accelerate the velocity of capital flow in the entire society;




                                            - 23 -

·   To accelerate the velocity of capital flow in the entire society;
·   To improve payment procedures;
·   To improve and strengthen the internal control and accounting procedure within
    commercial banks and the State Bank of Vietnam;

·   To create condition for Vietnamese banks to integrate with other banking
    institutions in the region and the world.

The above objectives of the project have been fully satisfied through the
implementation process of the project and this fact has been proven right in the
beginning phase of putting the systems into live operation. The efficiency of the project
is realized in the following aspects:

Enhancing quality of payments; creating a unified national payments network; helping
the smooth financial "circulation" throughout the country;

The Payment Systems and Bank Modernization Project has contributed directly to the
country's modernization and industrialization, and establishes one of the most modern
and important informatics networks in Vietnam at present;

To contribute significantly to the strategy of fund mobilization and to optimize the
allocation and distribution in the use of resources in the society, to serve economic
growth, to change economic structures and to implement successfully the national
policy on stabilization of the value of the state currency.


                                         Sincerely,




                                  Dr. Ta Quang Tien
                                         (signed)
                         Director of the Project Management Unit
                     Director of Informatics Technology Department
                                  State Bank of Vietnam




                                             - 24 -

 D· án Hi·n ··i hoá Ngân hàng và H· th·ng thanh toán (VN2785) ···c Ngân hàng Th· gi·i (WB) tài
 tr· theo Hi·p ··nh tín d·ng phát tri·n ·ã
 ···c hoàn thành vào ngày 31/12/2003 theo ngày h·t h·n c·a Hi·p ··nh tín d·ng. Chúng tôi ·ánh giá
 cao s· h· tr· có hi·u qu·, liên t·c và ph·i h·p ch·t ch· v·i NHNN c·a cán b· WB, Ngân hàng Nhà n··c
 ·ã tr·c ti·p th·c hi·n và ch· ··o các ngân hàng th··ng m·i tham gia tri·n khai D· án theo ·úng các m·c
 tiêu ·· ra. Các ngân hàng tham gia d· án ·ã xây d·ng ···c m·t n·n t·ng công ngh· hi·n ··i, phù h·p v·i
 xu h··ng phát tri·n c·a n·n kinh t· theo tiêu chu·n qu·c t·. Vi·c ·ng d·ng d· án ·ã t·o ra m·t yêu c·u
 c·p bách trong vi·c nghiên c·u và hoàn thi·n h· th·ng v·n b·n pháp lý làm c· s· ho·t ··ng cho h· th·
 ng.
 Thông qua D· án, các ngân hàng th··ng m·i ·ã cho ra ··i các s·n ph·m d·ch v· an toàn, hi·u qu· và
 hi·n ··i: D·ch v· ATM (máy rút ti·n t· ··ng); d·ch v· thanh toán t·c th·i; Qu·n lý tín d·ng; ·i·u chuy·n
 v·n... cho phép nâng cao hi·u qu· ho·t ··ng c·a ngân hàng, c·ng c· uy tín c·a h· th·ng ngân hàng ··i
 v·i công chúng.
 D· án ·ã ··t ···c m·c tiêu ·· ra:
        ·      Thi·t l·p h· th·ng thanh toán liên ngân hàng và m·t s· h· th·ng thanh toán n·i b· c·a các
        Ngân hàng Th··ng m·i ···c ·ng d·ng b·i các công ngh· tiên ti·n ·· hi·n ··i hoá ngân hàng và h·
        th·ng thanh toán, ·áp ·ng yêu c·u phát tri·n m·i c·a n·n kinh t·;
        ·      T·ng c··ng vai trò qu·n lý và ki·m soát c·a các ngân hàng trong vi·c th·c hi·n chính
        sách ti·n t·, tín d·ng và d·ch v· ngân hàng;
        ·      T·ng t·c ·· l·u thông và chu chuy·n v·n toàn xã h·i;
        ·      C·i ti·n ph··ng th·c thanh toán;
        ·      C·i ti·n và t·ng c··ng th· t·c ki·m soát và k· toán n·i b· trong ph·m vi các ngân hàng
        th··ng m·i và Ngân hàng Nhà n··c;
        ·      T·o ·i·u ki·n ·· Ngân hàng Vi·t Nam h·i nh·p v·i các ngân hàng trong khu v·c và th· gi·
        i.
 Các m·c tiêu nêu trên c·a D· án ·ã ···c ·áp ·ng ··y ·· thông qua quá trình tri·n khai th·c hi·n d· án và
 ·ã ···c th·c t· ch·ng minh ···c ngay trong giai ·o·n ··u ··a các ti·u d· án vào v·n hành th·c t·. Hi·u qu·
 c·a d· án ·ã ···c th· hi·n trên các m·t sau ·ây:
        ·      Nâng cao ch·t l··ng nghi·p v· thanh toán; hình thành m·ng l··i thanh toán th·ng nh·t c·a
        Qu·c gia, giúp cho "tu·n hoàn" tài chính
        ···c thông su·t trên toàn qu·c;
        ·      D· án Hi·n ··i hoá Ngân hàng và H· th·ng thanh toán ·ã ·óng góp tr·c ti·p vào s· nghi·
        p Hi·n ··i hoá, Công nghi·p hoá ··t n··c, thi·t l·p nên m·t trong nh·ng m·ng l··i tin h·c hi·n ··i
        và quan tr·ng nh·t · Vi·t Nam hi·n nay;
        ·       Góp ph·n quan tr·ng vào chi·n l··c huy ··ng v·n và t·i ·u hoá vi·c phân ph·i s· d·ng các
        ngu·n trong xã h·i, ph·c v· t·ng tr··ng kinh t·, thay ··i c· c·u kinh t· và th·c hi·n t·t chính sách ·
        n ··nh giá tr· ··ng ti·n c·a nhà n··c.




(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                                    - 25 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Please see Annex 7 for the Summary of Outcomes and Results.




                                               - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           Appraisal         Actual/Latest           Percentage of
                                                                           Estimate             Estimate                Appraisal
                            Component                                     US$ million         US$ million
State Bank of Vietnam                                                         11.13                    9.76                    87.7

 Commercial Banks
   - Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development                                8.50                    7.49                    88.1
   - Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam                            6.61                    5.98                    90.5
   - Vietnam Export-Import Bank (Eximbank)                                     2.20                    2.07                    94.1
   - Industry and Commerce Bank of Vietnam                                     6.37                    6.19                    97.3
         (Incombank)
   - Vietnam Maritime Commerical Joint Stock Bank                              2.22                    2.06                    92.8
         (Maritimebank)
   - Vietnam Bank for Foreign Trade (Vietcombank)                              4.60                    4.16                    90.4


Total Baseline Cost                                                           41.63                 37.71
  Physical Contingencies                                                       4.16                    4.16
  Price Contingencies                                                          3.78                    3.78
                              Total Project Costs                             49.57                 45.65
                      Total Financing Required                                49.57                 45.65
Note:
1. Details many not add to total due to rounding.
2. Figures represent amount financed by the IDA credit.
3. Due to the movements of the exchange rate, the project's amount at the approval stage was different than that at the closing
stage.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       1
                                                           Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                   ICB                NCB                       2             N.B.F.            Total Cost
                                                                                  Other
1. Works                                    0.00               0.00                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)
2. Goods                                   43.95               0.00                 0.11                2.69                 46.75
                                           (41.75)             (0.00)              (0.08)               (0.00)             (41.83)
3. Services                                 0.00               0.00                 7.17                0.00                 7.17
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)              (7.17)               (0.00)              (7.17)
4. Miscellaneous                            0.00               0.00                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                            0.00               0.00                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                            0.00               0.00                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)
    Total                                  43.95               0.00                 7.28                2.69                 53.92
                                           (41.75)             (0.00)              (7.25)               (0.00)             (49.00)



                                                            - 28 -

Note:
1. Details many not add to total due to rounding.
2. Figures represent amount financed by the IDA credit.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                        Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                   ICB            NCB                     2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                    0.00           0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                   42.50           0.18              0.11             2.00             44.79
                                           (42.50)        (0.02)            (0.07)            (0.00)           (42.58)
3. Services                                 0.00           0.00              4.20             0.00              4.20
                                           (0.00)         (0.00)            (3.07)            (0.00)           (3.07)
4. Miscellaneous                            0.00           0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                            0.00           0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                            0.00           0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                   42.50           0.18              4.31             2.00             48.99
                                           (42.50)        (0.02)            (3.14)            (0.00)           (45.65)
Note: Details many not add to total due to rounding.


 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                        - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              March 1994                4    FINANCIAL SECTOR                 S               S
                                             SPECIALISTS (3),
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              September 1994            6    FINANCIAL SECTOR                 S               S
                                             SPECIALISTS (3),
                                             ECONOMIST (1), IT
                                             SPECIALISTS (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              August                    8    FINANCIAL SECTOR                 S               S
              -September 1995                SPECIALISTS (3),
                                             ECONOMIST (2), IT
                                             SPECIALISTS (2), Counsel
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              March 1996                4    FINANCIAL SECTOR                 S               S
                                             SPECIALISTS (2),
                                             PROCUR SYS SPECIALIST
                                             (1); TASK MANAGER (1)
              November 1996             3    TASK MANAGER (1); YOUNG          U               S
                                             PROFESSIONAL (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              March 1997                2    TASK MANAGER (1); INFO           U               S
                                             TECHN CONSULTANT (1)
              September 1997            2    TASK MANAGER (1); INFO           U               S
                                             TECHN CONSULTANT (1)
              March 1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1); INFO           U               S
                                             TECHN CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PAYMENT SYSTEMS (1);
                                             RMV ECONOMIST (1)
              November 1998             2    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.             U               S
                                             ADVISOR FIN INFRA (1)
              July 1999                 2    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.             S               S
                                             ADVISOR FIN INFRA (1)
              December 1999             2    NEW TEAM LEADER (1); SR.         S               S
                                             ADVISOR FIN INFRA (1)
              June 2000                 2    TTL (1); SR. ADVISOR FIN         S               S
                                             INFRA (1)
              May 2001                  2    TTL (1); SR. ADVISOR FIN         S               S
                                             INFRA (1)
              January 2002              1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
              June 2002                 3    TTL (1); SR. ADVISOR FIN         S               S
                                             INFRA (1)
              May 2003                  3    TTL (1); SR. ADVISOR (1);        S               S



                                              - 31 -

                                                 FINANCIAL SECTOR SPEC.
                                                 (1)
               November 2003                3    TTL (1); SR. ADVISOR (1);         S    S
                                                 FINANCIAL SECTOR SPEC.
                                                 (1)

 ICR
               January 2004                2     TTL (1); SR. ADVISOR              S    S
                                                 (1); ECONOMIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                200.4                         701.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     219.4                         767.9
  Supervision                               518.5                        1814.8
  ICR                                           65                        227.5
  Total                                   1003.3                         3511.6
Note: Figures do not include Trust Funds.




                                                 - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Note. The ICR rating takes into account the project's overall performance and the results achieved in terms
of activities completed and outcome achieved.




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Annex 7 - Summary of Outcomes and Results


Vietnam PSBM - ICR -- Annex 7.doc

Annex 8 - Press Coverage of the Project




Vietnam PSBM - ICR -- Annex 8.doc




                                           - 35 -

- 36 -

