CREDIT NUMBER 2785 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Payment System and Bank Modernization Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPbMNT ASSOCIATION
Dated     C[ J t,a       , 1996


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2785 VN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AGREEMENT, dated    Lhka1 /4      , 1996, between SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM (the Borrwer) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1. 01.  The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements " of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
knowle"Lge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Bank for Foreign Trade of Viet Nam" and the acronym
"Vietcombank" mean the State-owned bank established and operating
pursuant to the Statute of the Bank for Foreign Trade of Viet Nam
dated November 11, 1992, issued under the Decision No. 252/QD-NHS of
the State Bank of Viet Nam dated November 11, 1992;
(b) "Bank for Investment and Development of Viet Nam" and the
acronym "BIDV" mean the State-owned bank established and operating
pursuant to the Charter of the Bank for Investment and Development
of Viet Nam dated March 21, 1995, issued under Decision No. 79/QD-
NH5 of the State Bank of Viet Nam dated March 21, 1995;
(c) "Implementation and Onlending Agreement" means an imple-
mentation and onlending agreement to be entered into by the
Borrower, through SBV, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, with Incombank, Maritimebank, Vietcombank, Eximbank,
Agribank or BIDV, and such term includes all schedules to such
Implementation and Onlending Agreement, and "Implementation and
Onlending Agreements" means, collectively, all six of the
Implementation and Onlending Agreements;
(d) "Industrial and Commercial Bank of Viet Nam" and the
acronym "Incombank" mean the State-owned bank established and
operating pursuant to the Statute of the Industrial and Commercial
Bank of Viet Nam dated November 11, 1992, issued under the Decision
No. 251/QD-NH5 of the State Bank of Viet Nam dated November 11,
1992;
(e) "Inter Bank Payment System" means the inter bank payment
system referred to under Part A of the Project;
(f) "National Payments Council" and the acronym "NPC" mean the
advisory council established within SBV by a Decision of the
Governor of the State Bank of Viet Nam of July 1994, consisting of
representatives of the SBV and the Participating Banks to provide
advice on matters related to the payments systems in the financial
sector;
(g) "Participating Banks" means, collectively, Agribank, BIDV,
Eximbank,    Incombank,  Maritimebank   and    Vietcombank,   and
"Participating Bank" means any one of them;
(h) "Project Management Unit" and the acronym "PMU" mean the
unit established within the SBV by Decision No. 269/QD-NH9 of the
Governor of the State Bank of Viet Nam dated September 23, 1995 for


﻿-3-
purposes,   inter  alia,  of   coordinating  day-to-day   Project
implementation activities and to recommend the issuance of required
regulations for the efficient implementation of the systems under
Parts A and B of the Project;
(i) "Respective Part of the Project" means, for each Partici-
pating Bank, the activities under Parts B and C of the Project
related to it;
(j) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(k) "State Bank of Viet Nam" and the acronym "SBV" mean the
central bank of the Borrower and any successor thereto;
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or
effectively controlled by a Participating Bank or by any one or more
subsidiaries of a Participating Bank or by a Participating Bank and
one or more of its subsidiaries;
(m) "Systems Contract" means the contract for the purchase of
computer software and hardware, design, installation and initial
operation of the systems under Parts A and B of the Project;
(n) "Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture" and the acronym "Agribank"
mean the State-owned bank established and operating pursuant to the
Statute of the Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture dated November 11,
1992, issued under the Decision No. 250/QD of the State Bank of Viet
Nam dated November 11, 1992;
(o) "Viet Nam Export-Import Commercial Joint-Stock Bank" and
the acronym "Eximbank" mean the joint-stock bank established and
operating pursuant to the Charter of the Viet Nam Export-Import
Commercial Joint-Stock Bank dated April 6, 1992, the Decision No.
140/CT dated May 24, 1989 of the Council of Ministers, and the
Decision No. 0011/NH-GP dated April 6, 1992 of the State Bank of
Viet Nam; and
(p) "Viet Nam Maritime Commercial Stock Bank" and the acronym
"Maritimebank" mean the joint stock bank established and operating
pursuant to the Charter of the Viet Nam Maritime Commercial Stock
Bank dated April 4, 1991 and the Decision No. 0001/NH-GP dated June
8, 1991 of the State Bank of Viet Nam.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty two million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 32,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditurLs made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Vietcombank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-5-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably   request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 2006 and ending November 1, 2035. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on November 1, 2015 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross.national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-6-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through SBV
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, banking and financial practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b)  Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower
shall, through SBV, enter into an implementation and onlending
agreement with each of the Participating Banks, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, under which: (i) the
Participating Bank shall carry out its Respective Part of the
Project in accordance with the provisions set out in Part B of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be on-lent to the Participating Bank in accordance
with Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each of the
Participating Banks to perform the obligations set forth in its
respective Implementation and On-lending Agreement, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance; and


﻿-7-
(ii) shall exercise its rights under each Implementation and
Onlending Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower  shall   not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or   waive  the
Implementation and Onlending Agreements or any provision thereof.
(d)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with Part A of the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall onlend part of the proceeds
of the Credit to the Participating Banks under Implementation and
Onlending Agreements which shall include the following principal on-
lending terms and conditions:
(a)   the  principal  amount   on-lent  to   each  of   the
Participating Bank shall be:
(A)    for Agribank, $ 10,000,000;
(B)    for BIDV, $ 7,750,000;
(C)    for Eximbank, $ 2,600,000;
(D)    for Incombank, $ 7,500,000;
(E)    for Maritimebank, $ 2,600,000; and
(F)    for Vietcombank, $ 5,350,000,
provided that such amounts shall be adjusted from time
to time to reflect the amounts withdrawn from the Credit
Account in respect of each Participating Bank's
Respective Part of the Project and its pro-rata share of
the cost of the Systems Contract and Part D of the
Project, and the principal amount repaid shall be the
equivalent in dollars at the time of withdrawal of the
amounts so withdrawn.


﻿-8-
(b)   interest shall be payable by the Participating Banks on
the principal amount so on-lent, withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate of 6.25% per
annum;
(c)   commitment charges shall be payable by the Participating
Banks on the principal amount so on-lent and not yet
withdrawn from time to time at the rate payable by the
Borrower under Section 2.04 (a) of this Agreement; and
(d)   the principal amount so on-lent shall be repaid by the
Participating Banks within 20 years, including five
years of grace.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿-9-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish  to  the  Association,   as  soon   as
available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish   to   the   Association   such  other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any party to an Implementation and Onlending Agreement
shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under such
Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that either SBV or
a Participating Bank will be able to perform its obligations under
the respective Implementation and Onlending Agreement.
(c)   The Statute or Charter of a Participating Bank, as the
case may be, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or
financial conditions of such Participating Bank or its ability to


﻿- 10 -
perform any of its obligations under its respective Implementation
and Onlending Agreement.
(d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of a Participating Bank or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)  The Decision No 269/QD-NH9 dated September 23, 1995 or
any part thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project or any Part thereof.
(f)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the National Payment Council or for the suspension of its
advisory functions.
(g)  A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by a Participating Bank, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
such Participating Bank's business or such Participating Bank's
financial condition or the efficiency of such Participating Bank's
management and personnel in carrying out its Respective Part of the
Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)  any event specified in paragraphs (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and the respective Participating Bank; and
(b)  any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f) or
(g) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6. 01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
(a)  that the Implementation and Onlending Agreements shall
have been entered into between the Borrower and Agribank, BIDV,
Eximbank, Incombank, Maritimebank and Vietcombank, respectively; and
(b)  that the- Borrower has furnished to the Association
evidence satisfactory to the Association that SBV has established
the participation criteria for settlement banks pursuant to the
provisions of Part A.2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Implementation and
Onlending Agreements shall have been duly authorized or ratified by
the Borrower and Incombank, Maritimebank, Vietcombank, Eximbank,
Agribank and BIDV, respectively, and are legally binding upon the
parties thereto in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor, State Bank of Viet Nam       is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Viet Nam
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Cable address:          Telex:
VIETBANK                      412248 NHTWVT
Hanoi


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
.1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/By.' Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods for                    60,000      100% of foreign
Part D                                   expenditures,
of the                                   100% of local
Project                                  expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2)   Consultants'              4,100,000      100%
Services under
Parts C and D
of the Project
(3)   Systems Contract         25,440,000       95%
(4)   Unallocated               3,300,000
TOTAL                 32,900.4000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 14 -
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 3,300,000, may
be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after May 12, 1995.


﻿- 15 -
SCEDUIE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the development of a modern banking sector, through improved
national payment processing, clearing and settlement services and
strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the Participating
Banks.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Design and implementation of a national inter-bank payment
clearing and settlement system, including:
(1)   an inter-bank payment system to handle all domestic
inter-bank payments comprised of: (a) a low value sub-system for
credit transfers and pre-authorized debit transfers operating on a
net settlement facility, and (b) a high value sub-system for credit
transfers of individual time-critical payments operating on a real-
time gross settlement facility; and
(2)   a settlement account processing system.
Part B:
Design and implementation of an electronic intra-bank payment
system for the Participating Banks to handle their domestic intra-
bank payments.
Part C:
Institutional strengthening of the Participating Banks,
through the undertaking of: (1) diagnostic reviews of their banking
services needs, including customer accounting systems; and (2)
diagnostic portfolio reviews and financial audits to determine their
financial situation.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:
Strengthening the PMU' s Project management capabilities
through provision of consultants' services, vehicles and office
equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿- 17 -
SCEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)   Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for the Systems Contract shall be
carried out in two stages in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)   Preference for domestically manufactured coods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
National Shopping
Goods for Part D of the Project estimated to cost $50,000
equivalent or less per contract and $110,000 equivalent or less in
the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 18 -
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
With respect to all contracts for goods, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex,
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by
the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A: Project Implementation
1.    (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause SBV to, maintain the
National Payment Council with such membership, staffing, funds,
functions and responsibilities as shall be required to enable NPC to
provide advisory and policy guidance to SBV on matters relating to
the payment systems in the financial sector.
(b) The Borrower shall, and shall cause SBV to, maintain the
PMU headed by a qualified and experienced officer assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers and assigned with such functions
and responsibilities, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be
required to enable it to undertake the overall coordination and
supervision of day-to-day Project implementation activities and to
recommend the issuance of required regulations for the efficient
implementation of the systems under Parts A and B of the Project.
2.    (a) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the
Association for its review and comments drafts of an SBV regulation
on electronic funds transfer and operating procedures for the Inter
Bank Payment System; (ii) issue such SBV regulation and such
operating procedures by December 31, 1996, taking into account the
Association's comments thereon; and (iii) thereafter, implement the
Inter Bank Payment System in accordance with such regulations and
operating procedures.
(b) The Borrower shall adopt and thereafter apply criteria,
satisfactory to the Association, for banks to participate in the
Inter Bank Payment System.
(c) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter implement the
pricing structure and fee schedule for all inter bank payment
services under the Inter Bank Payment System in accordance with
principles satisfactory to the Association.
3.    For the purposes of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project,
the Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary to
cause its Viet Nam Post and Telecommunications (VNPT) to: (a)
install and operate, in a timely and efficient manner, a nationwide
X.25 data communications network reaching the sites required under
the Project by September 30, 1996; and (b) by December 31, 1996,


﻿- 20 -
enter into a Service Agreement with each of SBV and the
Participating Banks, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, for the efficient operation of the national inter-bank
payment clearing and settlement system and intra-bank payment
system, respectively, under Parts A and B of the Project.
4.    Without limitation on the provisions of Section 9.06 (a) of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, through the PMU, prepare
and furnish to the Association semi-annual Project progress reports,
by March 1 and September 1 in each year, commencing on March 1,
1996, covering the preceding six months ending December 31 and June
30,  respectively,   including:  (a)   financial  information  on
expenditures planned, committed and disbursed; and (b) summary
statistics on the implementation of the Inter Bank Payment System.
Part B: Implementation and On-lendincr Agreements
The Implementation and On-lending Agreements shall include
provisions for the following undertakings by each Participating
Bank:
1.    Each Participating Bank shall carry out its Respective Part of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, banking and financial practices and in
accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
The responsibilities of SBV for the carrying out of Part B of the
Project shall also be set forth in each Implementation and Onlending
Agreement.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the consultants' services required for Parts B and C of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.    Each Participating Bank shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of its Respective Part of
the Project.
4.    For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, each
Participating Bank shall enter into a Service Agreement with Viet
Nam Post and Telecommunications, on terms and conditions acceptable


﻿- 21 -
to the Association for the efficient operation of the intra-bank
payment system, in accordance with Part A.3 (b) of this Schedule.
5.    Except as the Association may otherwise agree, no Partici-
pating Bank shall:
(a) sell, lease, assign or otherwise dispose of any of its
assets which shall be required for the efficient performance of its
operations or which may prejudice its ability to perform
satisfactorily any of its obligations under its respective
Implementation and Onlending Agreement; or
(b) (i) amend, suspend or repeal any provision of its
respective Statute or Charter, as the case may be; or (ii) make any
change in its structure, organization, powers or responsibilities
which may materially and adversely affect (A) its ability to perform
any of its obligations under its respective Implementation and
Onlending Agreement or (B) the operation of the facilities
established under Part B of the Project.
6.    Except  as  the  Association  shall  otherwise  agree, no
Participating Bank shall take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Implementation and Onlending Agreement or any provision thereof.
7.    Each Participating Bank shall, at the request of SBV and the
Association, exchange views with SBV and the Association with regard
to the progress of its Respective Part of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under its respective Implementation
and Onlending Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
8.    Each Participating Bank shall promptly inform SBV and the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by the Participating Bank of its obligations under its respective
Implementation and Onlending Agreement.
9.    Each Participating Bank shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound commercial banking,
administrative and financial practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.


﻿- 22 -
10.   Each Participating Bank shall:
(a) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition;
(b) have its records, accounts and financial statements (its
balance sheets, statements of income and expenses, cash flow and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(d) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 24 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested.  On the basis of each such request,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph    3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or


﻿- 25 -
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.      Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


