CIRCULATtNG COPY
Report No. 403a-MAG                 M1  BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                      j
Appraisal of the Village Livestock  REPORTS r,
and Rural Development Project    ONE W<- 
Madagascar
;une 25, 1974
Agriculture Credit and Livestock Division                                 FILE     COpy
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was pïrepared tor official use only bv the Bank Group. It may not
be pubfished, quoted or (ited without Bank Croup authorization, The 8ank Croup does
not a«cept responsibihity for the aL uracy or c ompleteness uo the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = Malagasy Francs 215 (Fmg)
Fmg 1.00 = us$ .oo465
(US$ 1: Fmg 215 was the current exchange rate at
time of appraisal; currently the rate is fluctuat-
ing around US$ 1: Fmg 230)
WEIGHTS AND MASURES
Metrie System
1 hectare (ha)              =      10,000 m2 = 2.h6 acres
1 kilometer (km)            =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)        0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)             =   2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                 =   0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton    =   0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BNM    =  Banque Nationale Malagasy de Developpement
FED    =  Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FAC    =  Fonds D'Aide et de Cooperation
IEMVT  =  Institut d'Elevage et de Médecine Vetérinaire des Pays Tropicaux
LDU    = Livestock Development Unit
ODEMO = Operation pour le De'veloppement du Moyen Ouest
OMBY   =  State Farm OMBY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pae No.
SUMMARY AND CONC7LUSIONS ........................i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ......     . ........... . ......... e... .. .1...
Il.   BACKGROUND ..................                            2
A.   General ........ .        .....      .     ......   2
B.   The Agricultural Sector .......   ..................   3
C.   Livestock Marketing and Processing ..............   4
D.   Government  Services   ........................... *  5
E.  Agricultural Credit .............. ...............  6
F.  The Project Area ....................****..  7
III.   THE BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 585-MAG) ...   8
IV .  THE PROJECT .................................... .  10
A.   General Description .. ... . . ........... ........  10
B.   Detailed Features ............................  l
C.  Project Costs ............................*...., 15
D.  Financing ...............<,,,,  17
E.  Procurement ....... .........                 .....   18
F.   Disbursement .... ..               . .... ..*... ....... ..  18
G.   Accounts and Audit  . ..........        .......  19
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT.. ......   19
VI.  PRODUCTION, MJARKETING, PRODUCER BENEFITS AND PROJECT
COST RECOVERY ..........            ................****   24
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION        ......     .......  27
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATION      . ......  28
SCHEDULE A:       STAFFING OF FAFIFAMA
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Madagascar
in September - October 1973, composed of Messrs. M. Walshe, A. Marot, Ms. K.
Marshall and Mr. S. Steengaard.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Malagasy Administrative Structure
2.   Agriculture and the Livestock Sub-sector
3.   Land Tenure
4.   Livestock Marketing, Meat Processffng, Meat Prices and Exports
Table 1. Livestock Marketing in Majunga Province - 1972
Table 2.  Principal Slaughteriouses and Processing Plants
Table 3. Official Meat Prices in Tananarive and Majunga
Table 4. Exports and Imports of Cattle, Meat and Meat Products
Table 5. Exports of Meat by Destination - 1970-1971
Table 6.  Sumnary of Taxes Related to Livestock Marketing,
Meat Processing and Exports
5.   Rural Education and Health Services
6.   Agricultural Credit
7.   Village Structure and Livestock Development
8.  Water Points Construction and Maintenance Program
9.   Rural Roads Improvement Program in Majunga Province
10.   The Beef Cattle Development Project
11.   FAFIFAMA
12.   Development Projections
Model: Village Herd - 200 Cows
Table 1. Herd Projection
Table 2. Sales and Operating Expenses
FAFIFAMA - Headquarters
Table 3. Investment Costs
Table 4. Operating Costs
FAFIFAMA - Veterinary and Extension Service
Table 5. Investment Costs
Table 6. Operating Costs
Table 7. Operating Costs - Incremental Expenses
FAFIFAMA - Pasture Improvement Program
Table 8. Investment Costs
Table 9. Operating Expenses
Water Development
Table 10. Pond Construction Program - Investment Costs
Table 11. Shallow Well Construction Program - Investment Costs
Table 12. Borehole Construction Program - Investment Costs
Table 13. Water Points Maintenance Program - Capital and
Recurrent Costs
Table 14. Summary - Water Points Construction lnd Maintenance
Costs



Table of Contents (Conttd)
Road Improvement Program
Table 15. Investment and Operating Cost of Equipment for
Maintenance and Construction Units
Table 16. Annual Costs of Wages and Salaries
Table 17. Summary of Costs
Mobile Health Unit Program
Table 18. Investment Costs
Table 19. Operating Expense Projection,
Rural School Program
Table 20. Investment Costs
Table 21. Operating Costs
O.MY Extension Program
Table 22. Village Model - Herd Projection Share Fattening
Herd - 100 Steers
Table 23. Investment Costs
Table 24. Village Model - Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 25. Village Model - Cropping Pattern
Table 26. OiIY: Revenue and Operatlng Expenses
Table 27. Incremental Cash Flow - fMBY
Village Share Fattening Program
Table 28. Village Model 100 Steers - Herd Projection
Table 29. Investment Costs
Table 30. Village Revenue and Operating Expenses
Table 31. Sales and Operating Expenses - Project Administration
Table 32. Project Administration and Village Participants -
Incremen.:al Cash Flow
Model: Pig Farm of 6 Sows
Table 33. Herd Projection
Table 34. Investment Costs
Table 35. Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 36. Incremental Cash Flow
Pig Program
Table 37. Investment Costs
Table 38. Revenue and Operating Expenses
Table 39. Cash Flow
Technical Services
Table 40. Investment Projection



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
13.   Summary of Annual Project Costs
14.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement.
15.   Financial Rates of Return
16.   Governnent Cash Flow from Project
17.   Economic Analysis
Table 1. Summary - Economic Rates of Return
Table 2. Sensitivity Analysis
Table 3. Incremental Output and Foreign Exchange Earnings
CHART
Ministry of Rural Development
MAP
Village Livestock and Rural Development Project - Project Area (IBRD 10854)



MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY ANI) CONCLUSIONS
i.        Since Independence in 1960, the Goverument of the Malagasy Republic
has placed a high priority on rural development. The growtrt. of agricultural
production has, however, barely kept pace with population growth, and Govern-
ment is currently reassessing its policies and programs in the whole field
of development. A new draft development plan was recently completed which
emphasizes the importance of increasing agricultural production, and a basic
reform of local government now underway aimi8 at promotîng the active partici-
pation of the rural population in developmext activities. Livestock formas
an integral part of the traditional village economy in Madagascar, and as
there is an excellent prospect for increasing production, Government's strategy
has placed a high priority on the development of the livestock subsector.
ii.       The proposed Project would assist Government's livestock and vil-
lage development programs through the proviaion of improved veterinary and
extension services, as well as essential ruval infrastructure in about 2,000
villages in Majunga Province. It would alsoi finance three pilot development
schemes in the Middle West Zone which would assist villagers in the develop-
ment of livestock and mixed farming enterprises. In Majunga Province the
Project would establish a livestock development unit known as FAFIFAMA, which
would reorganize and upgrade the veterinary and livestock extension services;
develop 10,000 ha of improved pasture; construct water facilities, rural
roads, village schools and an agricultural training center. The Project would
also include establishment of mobile health centers, and provision for tech-
nical services and future project preparation. In addition, the Project would
provide limited assistance to the OMBY state ranches developed under an earlier
project to enable them to extend their activities to surrounding villages
through an extension and community development program. Finally, the Project
would establish pilot cattle share fattening and pig production schemes which
would help diversify livestock production at the village level.
iii.      Responsibility for Project implementation and coordination ln
Majunga Province would rest with the General Manager of FAFIFAMA. He would
have direct responsibility for all components within Majunga Province with
the exception of the mobile health units which would be administered by the
Ministry of Social Affairs.  The Department of Livestock would coordinate and
assist with the execution of the pilot livestock development components in
tlie Middle West Zone and the Minîstries of Education and Public Health would
participate in the community development programs. The Department of Public
Works would implement the road construction program and the Ministry of Mines
would participate in the water development program.
iv.       An IDA credit of US$9.6 million is proposed whîch would cover about
75% of total Project costs of US$12.79 million (Fmg 2,751 million) over the
four year Project period 1975 - 1978. Funds for the Majunga Province develop-
ments would be channelled through FAFIFAMA, and those for the OMBY extension



- ii -
and community development program would be made available to OMBY; these funds
would not be repayabli or carry an interest charge.  Funds for the share
fattening program would be made available to OMBY at an interest rate of
7-1/4% for a period of thirteen years including a three year grace period;
funds for the pig development program would be made available to the pig pro-
gram at 5% for a period of twenty years, and that portion for farm development
would then be onlent to the pig farmers at 7-1/4% for a period of five years.
Vehicles and equipment (US$2.6 million) would be procured by international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. In appraisal of bids,
local manufacturers would be allowed a preference margin of 15% or the exist-
ing rate of import duties, whichever is lower. In view of the fact that
operations would be scattered over a wide area, all infrastructure would be
constructed under force account or local competitive bidding. Miscellaneous
equipment would be procured after local competitive bidding; orders would be
bulked to the maximum extent possible. Livestock, vaccine, drugs and seed
(US$0.6 million) would be procured locally.
v.        Incremental production of cattle from the Project by year 5 would
total about 50,000 cattle or 7,400 m tons of meat. At full production in
1986 (year 12), the Project would produce an additional 70,000 head, or
10,600 m tons of meat annually - a 27% increase in output for the Project
area. The Project would also result in increased output of pigs, rice, maize,
manioc and peanuts. About 80% of the incremental beef production would be
exported, mainly as chilled or frozen beef, and the net foreign exchange earn-
ings from these exports would total about US$10 million annually. Incremental
production of pork, poultry and agricultural produce valued at US$0.45 million
would be consumed domestically, as would 20% of the incremental beef production.
vi.       The economic rate of return of the Project (excluding health, edu-
cation and technical services) is estimated at 69%. If investment costs were
increased by 10%, the return would be about 62%. The major benefits from the
Project in Majunga Province would be derived from the improved veterinary and
extension service and from water development. However, feeder road develop-
ment, pasture improvement, and the health and education facilities would
improve communications, facilitate marketing of crops and livestock, and help
raise the standard of living in the rural areas. It is also expected that
bv involving a broad segment of the population in the development effort, the
Project would provide a firm basis for future development activities.  In
the Middle West the pilot programs would not only directly provide for in-
creased incomes of participating villagers but would also have a valuable
demonstration effect as to the efficacy of new techniques for raising live-
stock output.
vii.      Despite the satisfactory economic and financial returns it would
not be possible for Government to recover all investments directly since
several of the investments require long demonstration periods if villagers
are to be persuaded of their desirability.



- iii -
viii.     The Project would almost entirely involve poor rural families.  ic
wculd assist about 80,000 families (400,000 persons) in Majunga Province and
wcould increase their per capita cash incomes from about US$20 to US$30.
Since Majunga Province is one of the poorest regions in Madagascar (average
rural per capita income about US$70 compared with US$80 for the whole country)
the Project would assist income distribution. In the Middle West Zone OMBY's
extension progran would assist about 1,600 familïes (8,000 persons) and would
increase their per capita cash incomes from about US$35 to US$65; the pîg and
shere fattening pilot development programs would assist about 200 families
(1,000 persons).  In addition, the Project would provide employment for
about 300 during the construction period.
ix.       Three loans or credits totalling US$23.1 million have previously
been approved for agricultural projects in the Malagasy Republic. These in-
clude two credits for irrigation: a credit for US$5.0 million for the Lake
Alaotra Irrigation Project in 1969, and a credit of US$15.3 million in 1972
for the Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project. In 1969 a loan
of US$2.8 million was extended for a Beef Cattle Development Project.
Progress under the two irrigation projects has been satisfactory; the Beef
Cattle Development Project has experienced serious difficulties, but it is
now proceeding satisfactorily.
x.        The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$9.6 million to the
Coverrment of the Malagasy Republic.






2MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The economy of Madagascar is dominated by a traditional rural sector
comprising about 90% of the population close to subsistence levels. Since
Independence in 1960, Government has placed a high priority on rural develop-
ment, and one of the prime objectives has been to involve the rural communi-
ties more actively in the development process. The growth of agricultural
production has, however, barely kept pace with population growth, and the Govern-
ment is currently reassessing its policies and programs in the whole field of
development. A new draft development plan was recently completed which
emphasizes the importance of increasing agricultural production, and a basic
reform of local government now underway aims at promoting the active participa-
tion of the rural population in all future development activities. Livestock
forms an integral part of the traditional village economy and the potential
for increasing production and meat exports is good; this is particularly true
in the proposed Project area which is extremely underdeveloped, lacks essential
infrastructure and has considerable under-employment. The Government's stra-
tegy for economic development has therefore placed a high priority on the
development of the livestock subsector.
1.02      Three loans or credits totalling US$23.1 million have previously
been approved for agricultural projects in the Malagasy Republic. These in-
clude two credits for irrigation: a credit for US$5.0 million for the Lake
Alaotra Irrigation Project in 1969, and a credit of US$15.3 million in 1972
for the Morondava Irrigation and-Rural Development Project. In 1969 a loan
of US$2.8 million was extended for a Beef Cattle Development Project. Pro-
gress under the two irrigation projects has been generally satisfactory,
although the Alaotra project was slow getting underway due to difficulties
with procurement and with recruitment of local counterparts, and the effec-
tiveness of the i4orondava Credit was delayed several months due to adminis-
trative difficulties. It has since progressed well but is likely to cost
considerably more than expected at appraisal, primarily because of necessary
design changes and inflation of construction costs. The Beef Cattle Develop-
ment Project has experienced serious difficulties; however, the Bank and
Government have been engaged in a mutual effort to resolve these problems
and considerable progress has been made over the past year. This project is
more fully discussed in paras 3.01 - 3.03.
1.03      The Village Livestock and Rural Development Project was prepared ty
the Government with assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. During
appraisal, the Governnent agreed that the area in the Majunga Province to be
served by the reorganized veterinary and extension service should be reduced
to about five million ha, about 50% of Government's original request, to make
it more manageable and three pilot development programs were added. This
report is based on the findings of an IDA Appraisal Mission to Madagascar in
September-October 1973 composed of Messrs. M. Walshe, A. Marot, Ms. K. Marshall
and Mr. S. Steengaard.



- 2-
II. BAGKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Madagascar is an island in the Indian Ocean some 400 km off the
southeast coast of Africa, and has an area of 592,000 km2.  The climate and
other physical conditions very widely from the tropical climate of the low-
land coastal areas to drier sub-tropical conditions on the central plateau
where about 60% of the population is concentrated. The total population il
now estimated at about 7.5 million.
2.02      Madagascar has a pronounced dual economy divided between a small
modern sector and the traditional sector living close to subsistence levels.
Overall per capita GDP vas about US$142 in 1972, although that of rural areas
was estimated at about US$80. Economic growth has been slow; real per capita
GDP increased by little more than 1% a year between 1966 and 1972. The major
factor in this disappointing performance is that agricultural output increased
at only 2.9% annually during this period, which is little more than the
population growth rate (about 2.5% per annum). There are marked inequalities
in income between regions; many areas are almost completely undeveloped with
widespread poverty, poor nutrition, high infant mortality, and limited oppor-
tunities for education or advancement. Transportation difficulties exacer-
bated by climatic conditions and topography have also severely constrained
more rapid progress.
2.03      The Malagasy Goverxment its currently undertaking a reorganization of
local administration. As part of this reform, representative institutions will
be established. The new system reflects an effort to build into local gov-
ernment traditional institutions and practices, and to make it more responsive
to the local population. The fokonolona, which is the traditional designation
for a village or group of villages, is the basic unit of the new system.
Detailed features of organization and operation of the new system have not
been finalized, and local administration is currently in a transîtional state.
Although most existing local gove-rnment institutions will eventually be re-
placed, the Government intends at this time to retain the current provincial
structure for the foreseeable future.  The administrative reform is complex,
and further details on the old and tke new system may be found in Annex 1.
The fokonolona reform is a fbsndatetal part of the Government's strategy for
involving village communi ties emre actively in the development process.



- 3 -
B. The Agricultural Sector (Annex 2)
2.04      Agriculture is Madagascar's most important economic sector.  It
directly supports about 80% of the population, contributes about one-third
of GDP, and is the source of about 85% of foreign exchange earnings. On farm
consumption absorbs about 60% of total agricultural production. Basic food
crops are rice, maize and manioc while the principal agricvltural exports are
coffee, cloves, vanilla, pepper and beef. Domestic per capita beef consump-
tion is relatively high (about 16 kg) in comparison with that of other East
African countries (Zambia about 10 kg). Livestock production accounted for
about 10% of total GDP in 1972, and contributed about 11% of total exports.
Dairy products comprised about 2% of total imports in the same year.
Livestock
2.05      The livestock population is estimated at about 10 million cattle,
about 1.7 million sheep and 0.7 million pigs. National cattle herd growth
has averaged about 1% annually over the past decade. About 900,000 head of
cattle are slaughtered annually, a total offtake of about 9%. However, only
about 350,000 are marketed or slaughtered through commercial channels giving
a commercial offtake rate of about 3.5%.  Virtually all beef production comes
from the traditional sector since commercial beef production is limited to
the OMBY 1/ state ranches (paras 3.01-3.02) and a few private producers.
Animal Health
2.06      Anthrax and Blackleg are widespread in Madagascar, but can be con-
trolled by systematic vaccination. However, inadequate control of these
diseases is reflected in high mortality and low calving percentages over
much of the country. Tuberculosis occurs in about 30% of cattle but is not
a serious threat to production. Internal parasites, a source of mortality
and poor growth of young stock, and Liver Fluke are prevalent in many areas,
but can be largely controlled by drenching. Streptothricosis and tick-borne
fevers are of limited economic significance as the native Zebu cattle are
generally immune to their effects. Pigs are subject to "Teschen Disease"
and Pig Cholera, but both can be controlled by vaccination.  In summary, the
major cattle scourges are absent, and the diseases responsible for economic
loss in both cattle and pigs are controllable by modern techniques.
Pasture Improvement
2.07      Much of Madagascar is covered by vast natural pastures.  Under the
traditional management system, (where pasture is burned every year and grazing
is uncontrolled), the carrying capacity of these natural pasture is about
1/   The State ranching organization set up to manage the ranches established
under the Beef Cattle Development Project,  OMBY is Malagasy for Steer.



-4-
10 ha per A.U. 1/. With improved grazing management and controlled burning
this can be increased to about 4 ha rer A.U. By planting the sub-tropical
legume stylo, 2/ which remains green and provides good feed during the dry
season due to its deep rooting ability, the carrying capacity can be improved
to about 1.5 ha per A.U. Stylo was introduced to Madagascar ln about 1930 by
French researchers and its establishment and performance were tested at tle
;iianjasoa Research Station (para 2.14). The improvement of pasture by planting
stylo has been highly successful under The Beef Cattle Development Project
(para 3.02), which was the first major effort to apply this technology to
commercial farming. Soil and climatic conditions over vast areas of Mada-
gascar, including the Middle West Zone 3/ and most of Majunga Province, are
ideally suited to stylo. Although research experience indicates that stylo
can be developed inexpensively and directly facilitates more intensive beef
production, it has not been utilized extensively and is virtually unknown in
Majunga Province. Until the technical and financial value of stylo are
clearly demonstrated to traditional producers, the adoption of stylo by
villagers for beef production will be slow (Annex 2).
2.08      Apart from its evident value in improving natural pastures, the
broader agricultural implications of stylo are still more important. It can
aid in transforming vast areas now under grasslands into productive cropping
land, as it helps to build soil fertility and humus. Crop yields are signifi-
cantly higher on land that has been under stylo, and the land is also much
less susceptible to erosion. Although it may represent a technological break-
through for Madagascar, its development at the village level raises a number
of important questions; these include the pattern of farming and cropping
suitable for different regions, the size of farms as related to farming systema
and acceptable farm incomes, and Government land tenure policies for communal
pasture areas (Annex 3).
C. Livestock Marketing and Processing (Annex 4)
2.09      The cattle trade is a complex traditional system, with limited
effective Government control. A farmer, apart from his own consumption and
sales within his own village (which together make up two thirds of all con-
sumption), sells cattle in village markets or secondary markets administered
by local authorities. Except for some transport along main axes, traders move
animals up to 600 km along unimproved stockroutes from the Western breeding
areas to the Central Plateau and East Coast for fattening, sale for draft,
or slaughter. Numerous intermediaries are involved from small bush traders
to large entrepreneurs and processing companies.
1/   Animal unit:  any adult animal over 1 year old.
2/   Stylosanthes gracilis or humilis - sub-tropical legumes.
3/   Middle West Zone:  A major ecological zone about 100 kms wide and 500 kms
long running North to South through the middle of the country with
Tsiroanomandidy sub-prefecture approximately in the center.



-5-
2.10      The one third of animais entering commercial trade are either slaugh-
tered in municipal slaughterhouses (primarily for urban domestic consumption)
or private plants (primarily for export). The capacity of existing slaugh-
terhouses is underutilized at present, and a new national slaughterhouse with
a designed capacity of 100,000 head is being constructed in Tananarive to
replace existing slaughterhouses. Existing facilities will thus be adequate
to process significantly increased production.
2.11      Livestock exports have recently increased sîgnificantly:  fresh and
frozen meat exports rose from 1,060 m tons in 1955 to 3,340 m tons in 1966 and
10,250 m tons (equivalent to 35,000 head) in 1972; currently about 12,000
head are exported live. The 1972 exports were valued at about US$23 million.
The most important markets are France, Mauritius, and La Reunion. The poten-
tial for expanding exports is considerable, since Madagascar (because it is
free of foot-and-mouth and other serious diseases), has access to European
and other markets. However, export growth plrospects are endangered by slow
national herd growth and domestic policies aimed at controlling domestic meat
prices and restricting exports. (para. 6.03).
2.12      Taxes are levied at various levels by the national and local Govern-
ments. Details are set out in Annex 4, Table 6. The Government is currently
considering improvements in the marketing aid processing system. These could
be beneficial, but although the present sys:em is somewhat inefficient, it is
adequate to meet the Project's needs.
D. Government Services
2.13      Responsibility for agricultural services rests with the Ministry of
Rural Development. Its Department of Livestock and Fisheries is responsible
for veterinary and extension services, livestock marketing and slaughtering,
research, and the establishment and supervision of state farms for livestock.
Its headquarters and central services are located in Tananarive, under the
Director of Livestock. The field operations of the Department are organized
on a provincial basis, with a Chief Veterinary Officer responsible for opera-
tions in each province. Provincial services include: a veterinary service,
a livestock extension service, veterinary stations in the larger towns for
diagnostic work and for sanitary control of slaughterhouses and retail meat
sales, and a few livestock breeding centers. Although the headquarters staff
in Tananarive are well-trained and competent, the services provided at the
provincial level, and particcularly in villages, are generally weak. Although
vaccination against Anthrax and Blackleg is provided free of charge, the
veterinary service reaches only between 40 and 50% of the total cattle
population annually. This is due largely to inadequate transport, cattle
handling facilities and insufficient field staff at the lower levels (many
of whom live in towns rather than in the rural areas). The most serious
problem is inadequate organization, planning and supervision. Training for
agricultural extension workers and veterinary technicians is adequate.
llowever, practical training for farmers is very limited (Annex 5).



-6-
2.14      There is an efficient vaccine procuction laboratory operated by the
Livestock Department in association with th< IEMVT 1/. It produces the full
range of vaccines required for cattle, pigs and poultry and has been able to
assure an adequate supply at a reasonable cost. An efficient veterinary
diagnostic laboratory is operated on a similar basis. The research service
of the Livestock Department maintains two research stations at Kianjasoa (in
the Middle West Zone) and Miadana (near Majunga City). Research covers
pasture improvement techniques using stylo, crop production for livestock
(maize, manioc and peanuts), feeding and management systems, and crossbreeding
for beef and milk. Although the technical level of work has been high, it has
not been effectively integrated into farming practice.  The French Government
has provided technical and financial support through the IEMVT for research,
diagnosis and vaccine production. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that these services would be maintained by Government at satisfactory levels;
that they would be staffed by personnel with adequate training and experience;
and that the quantity of vaccine produced would continue to be adequate to
supply the Projcct's needs without reducing supplies to the vaccination pro-
gram in the rest of the country.
E. Agricultural Credit (Annex 6)
2.15      The BNM (Banque Nationale Malagasy de Developpement) is virtually
the only source of agricultural credit, and this constitutes its main lending
activity. From 1963-1972 about 159,000 loans (60% of total loans) amounting
to Fmg 36 billion (US$167 million) were made for agriculture. In 1972 about
44,000 loans (78% of total lending) amounting to Fmg 7 billion (US$32.5 mil-
lion) were committed for agriculture. Loans for marketing agricultural pro-
ducts, including substantial amounts for rice imports, accounted for 82% of
total agriculture commitments in 1972.  Other agricultural loans committed to
the modern commercial sector amounted to Fmg 985 million (US$4.5 million),
and only Fmg 323 million (US$1.5 million) was extended as small-scale loans
for the traditional farming sector. At present BNM's small-scale agricultural
credit is only extended under development projects undertaken by Government
for specific crops or livestock enterprises where strong supporting services
exist and where recovery is ensured through marketing arrangements. For
example, BNM channels limited funds for crops and livestock to small farmers
in part of the Middle West Zone through ODEMO 2/ - the rural development
agency for this zone. BNM's lending for livestock to date has been small.
In 1972 BNMf's commitments for livestock amounted to Fmg 303 million (US$1.4
million) or about 4% of total agricultural loan commitments. Of this amount,
about 60% was extended to commercial farmers and about 30% to traditional
1/ Institut d'Elevage et de Medecine Veterinaire des Pays Trpicaux, a French
public research organization.
2/ Operation pour le Developpement du Moyen Ouest, an agency attached to the
Ministry of Rural Development.



- 7 -
small farmers. About 55% (US$0.7 million) of total livestock loans have a
one year period and are made mainly for purchasing pigs and cattle. The
remaining 45% (US$0.6 million) are short or medium term loans (2-5 year period)
for livestock purchase and constructing piggeries and barns. BNM's lending
rates for livestock are 7.5%-8.75% for one year loans, 4%-8.75% for medium
term loans (2-5 years) and 3%-6.75% for long term loans 10 years). Tradi-
tional small livestock producers find it extremely difficult to meet BNM's
lending conditions because of their low cash resources ar.d inadequate colla-
teral associated with the present land tenure systems and the difficulty of
applying mortgages to cattle. BNM has 36 permanent offices, but almost all
of them are located in the Tananarive and Fianarantsoa Provinces. BNM is well
managed and is financially viable.
F. The Froject Area
2.16      The Project area consists of the Majunga Province in the northwest
of Madagascar and the Tsiroanomandidy sub-prefecture of the Tananarive Province
in the Middle West Zone. The climate is tropical with average summer tempera-
tures ranging from about 23°C to 27°C.  The average rainfall is about 1,500 mm
with pronounced wet (Nov. to Feb.) and dry (April to Oct.) seasons. The
Project area (about 16.2 million ha) is relatively sparsely populated (about
1.1 million). The potential for livestock development and for increased crop-
ping in the Project area is good, as the soils are generally rich and the
climate favorable (Annex 7).
2.17      The Project area contains about 3 million cattle and is one of the
principal breeding and fattening regions of Mladagascar. Average family herd
size is about 14 head of cattle. Tsiroanomardidy city is also the site of
a major cattle market which handles virtually all cattle moving from the
west to the Tananarive area; between 75,000 and 90,000 animals are sold in
this market annually. Tsiroanomandidy sub-prefecture is an important area
for breeding and fattening steers, and pig production is becoming increasingly
important. The principal problems for village producers in the Project area
are animal health, the poor quality of feed during the prolonged dry season,
and inadequate drinking water for cattle on range land (Annex 8).
2.18      The Project area is one of the least developed regions of Madagascar.
There are few large towns or villages and about 90% of the population lives
in rural villages, close to subsistence levels. Poor communications are a
critical constraint to development, since few roads are passable year-round
and the rural population is often cut off completely from other parts of the
country for 6 to 8 months of the year. The rugged topography, numerous rivers
and streams, and high rainfall concentrated in a few months make road construc-
tion and maintenance difficult and expensive. Difficulties of access hamper
extension efforts, limit both social and economic services, and make marketing
crope difficult outside the producing villages (Annex 9). Social services
also are very limited. There are few doctors or health centers in the rural
areas: less than 20% of the population has access to medical care of any



- 8 -
kird.  Bilharzia is a serious problem; malaria is widespread and, partly due
to poor nutrition, epidemic diseases such as measles take a high toll, espe-
cially among children. Less than 50% of school-age children attend primary
schools, and only a small percentage of the population is literate. School
facilities are inadequate and, though villagers are prepared to assist in
school construction and in paying teachers' salaries, they require financial
and technical assistance in building and running schools.
2.19      Most families in the Project area cultivate some subsistence crope
(rice and manioc) by hand or using teams of oxen, and the total area cultivated
per family is usually about 0.5 to 1 ha. There are significant regional vari-
ations within the Project area: in the north of Majunga Province cash cropa
are beco«ing increasingly important - notably rice, cotton, tobacco, peanuts,
cashewnuts and sugar; in the south of the province, the climate is dryer and
cattle production is the principal source of livelihood of the vast majority
of the population. The Tsiroanomandidy sub-prefecture forme part of the
Middle West Zone and is a region with a good potential for mixed farming
(rice, manioc, maize and cattle). The strategy for the development of both
the Majunga Province and the Middle West Zone should focus on the extension
of the cropping area to the fullest extent possible with due attention to
preventing erosion and maintaining soil fertility. Diversification to pigs,
poultry and dairying should be emphasized in the Middle West Zone. In the
next 20 years, however, the proportional reduction in total natural pasture
areas will be small, even with the most optimistic projections for increased
cropping. Nevertheless, since cropping offers the best opportunity for
increasing farmer incomes in the âhort term, the expansion of cropping should
be emphasized in future projects for these areas.
III. THE BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Annex 10)
3.01      The development of the livestock subsector in Madagascar was sup-
ported by a Bank loan of US$2.8 million in 1969 for the Beef Cattle Develop-
ment Project. This loan covered about two-thirds of total estimated costs of
US$4.2 million. The project vas designed to demonstrate the feasibility of
modern commercial ranching techniques in Madagascar through beef production
on lmproved pasture, and up-grading of the local Zebu stock. It provided for
the development of six breeding and fattening ranches in the Middle West Zone
of from 20,000 - 25,000 ha each, as well as for the construction of access
roads and the development of stockroutes. The ranches were initially to be
owned and managed by 0MBY, a state ranching organization established for this
purpose; it was intended that they would ultimately be sub-divided and trans-
ferred to private ownership by Malagasy nationals employed and trained under
the project.
3.02      The project was slow getting underway due to problems in recruiting
qualified management staff wîth French language capability and delays in pro-
curing materials and equipment. The most serious problems, however, involved



- 9-
management difficulties and conflicts with villagers. The expatriate manage-
ment staff recruited for the project were tec-hnically competent, but their
lack of French, and their lack of experience or familiarity with Malagasy
customs or the essentially French administrative system led to difficult
relations with local and Government personnel. Subsequent changes in project
management staff did not improve the situation as their lack of French speak-
ing staff continued to be a serious problem. There was also a serious conflict
between the ranch management and the local villagers who li ved nearby and
grazed their cattle over ranch lands. At ap)raisal it was assumed that the
region was sparsely populated, and that an es;timated 700 villagers living in
the region could easily be resettled or empluyed on the ranches. In retrospect,
this estimate proved too low and the problems were exacerbated by the rapid
spontaneous migration to the region, the traditional attachment of villagers
to the land and the strength of customary land tenure rights, which were not
anticipated. Finally, shifts in ranch sites to allow for contiguous boundaries
facilitated communications among the ranches, but could not avoid conflicts
with villagers, who persistently refused to move themselves or their cattle
from the ranches. As a result of these difficulties with the villagers, the
ranches faced unexpected and critical problems. Although cattle theft on a
minor scale is not unusual in Madagascar, ranches experienced unprecedented
large-scale cattle rustling, and 15% of the total herd was stolen in a single
year. Most pastures were burned during the dry season and villagers cut
fences to gain access to grazing lands, and village dogs attacked ahd killed
a large number of calves. The controlled grazing system originally employed
to allow for minimum herding proved unworkable, and ranch managers were
forced to increaee the level of herding and to confine cattle to small paddocks
at night. In adcdition, the cost of fencing and the price of both local and
imported cattle proved to be considerably higher than projected. Breeding
heifers were difficult to procure, and a significant number of imported bulls
succumbed to local diseases. As these problems became apparent, Government
increasingly tended to disassociate itself from the project, and, particularly
after mid-1972, gave management little support. Conflicts over accounting
systems developed, and as a result practically nio accounts were kept; Govern-
ment subsequently cut off funds to OMBY, including payment of staff salaries,
pending resolution of the accounting problem.
3.03      In spite of these serious difficulties, there are several positive
aspectes of the project. Development of stylo (para 2.07) has been highly
successful, thus demonstrating the technical feasibility of pasture improve-
ment in the region. In addition, the infrastructure for the four ranches
has been successfully established, and the construction of about 250 km of
inexpensive, but adequate roads has helped to open up this part of the Middle
West.
3.04      The Bank and Government have been engaged in a mutual effort to
resolve these problems. The boundaries of the ranches were adjusted in con-
sultation with the local population and many contested areas were returned
to the villagers. Malagasy staff were appointed as OMBY's General Manager
and managers of the ranches. With these changes, communication between the
ranches and the villagers has improved and the employment of villagers on the



- 10 -
ranches has increased. Serious difficulties remain, however; although the
loan is now almost fully disbursed, herd development on the four ranches has
not yet been completed. Because of a lack of accurate accounts, stemming
from the management difficulties, operating losses incurred to date are not
known accurately but they are likely to have been considerable and it is
uncertain when OMBY could become profitable. The Bank is assisting OMBY
management and the Government to fully exploit the technical advances achieved
on the project and their dissemination amongst village cattie owners and
also make OMBY a financially viable enterprise. In addition, the experience
with the Beef Cattle Development Project has been used in designing the pro-
posed Project, which instead of commercial ranch development, emphasizes
cattle development at the traditional village level by providing essential
infrastructure and technical services. Moreover, the management of the project
will be entirely the responsibility of Malagasy officials with foreign experts
in an advisory role.
IV. THE PROJECT
=
A. General Deacription
4.01      The Project would be a broadly based program to assist village
livestock and rural development over four years in the Majunga Province and
the Tsiroanomandidy sub-prefecture of the Tananarive Province. It would
specifically include:
(a) development of an intensive veterinary and livestock
extension service;
(b) improvement of 10,000 ha of communal pasture in about
200 villages through the introduction of stylo;
(c) construction of water facilities for about 300 villages;
(d) improvement or construction of about 170 kms and maintenance
of about 280 kms of secondary and tertiary roads;
(e) construction of 28 village schools, an agricultural training
center, and provision for eight mobile health units;
(f)  three pilot development programs in the Middle West Zone: an
extension, veterinary, and community development service
for OMBY, a beef share fattening program, and a pilot pig
program; and
(g) provision of technical services, training, Project
monitoring and evaluation, and future project preparation.



- il -
4.02      The Ministry of Rural Development's Livestock Department would have
overall responsibility for the majority of Project activities. Under its
general directioni, a livestock development unit known as FAFIFAMA 1/ would be
established which would have responsibility for coordinating and supervising
al. Project activities in the Majunga Province (Annex 11); Project components
outside Majunga Province would be carried out by (MBY and ODEMO.
4.03      The principal objective of the Project is to increase productivity
of about 1.2 million cattle in the Project area by providing an efficient
veterinary and extension service, by providing water for cattle and by
demonstrating the value of improved pasture. The road program would facil-
itate access to villages. Although the education and health programs would
not contribute directly to Project production, they would support other Proj-
ect activities and would be designed to assist in general area development.
B. Detailed Features
Intensive Veterinary and Extension Service
4.04      An intensive veterinary and extension service would be developed
for seven of the eighteen sub-prefectures of the Majunga Province (Map). The
service would ensure annual vaccination of all village cattle against Blackleg
and Anthrax, would dose young stock twice a year for gastro-intestinal parasites,
and would provide advice on animal husbandry techniques and range management.
These services would substantially increase productivity from a village herd;
offtake would increase from about 9% to 14%. (Annex 12, Tables 1 and 2).
When fully operational (Year 4) the service would reach about 1.1 million
cattle grazing over an area of about five million ha and owned by about 1,850
village communities. The main ittims provided would include: housing for about
60 field staff, three veterinary stations, veterinary equipment, cattle handl-
ing facilities, vehicles, vaccines, drugs, staff salaries and other operating
costs for four years (Annex 12, Table 5).
Pasture Improvement
4.05      About 10,000 ha of pasture would be improved over four years through
the introduction of stylo. About 50 ha of village communal grazing land would
be improved in each of about 200 villages scattered throughout Majunga Province
or along major stockroutes. In most cases stylo would be planted by broad-
casting on mechanically cultivated seedbeds; manual cultivation is not possible
because available labor is required for traditional cropping during the cul-
tivation season. The main items financed would include seed, fertilizer,
tractors, machinery and labor costs (Annex 12, Table 8).
1/   Fampivoarana Ny Piompiana Amin'ny Faritra Andrefan I madagasikara,
Malagasy for livestock development unit for the West of Madagascar.



- 12 -
Water Points Construction and Maintenance (Annex 8)
à.06      Drinking water for animals and humans would be provided in about 300
villages where the need for water is greatest. Three types of water facil-
ities would be constructed: on the basis of hydrogeological studies it is
expected that the need would be met by about 100 water ponds, 50 shallow wells,
and 150 boreholes. Water ponds would be built where topographical and geo-
logical conditions are suitable and on average would store about 6,500 cu. m.
4.07      Shallow wells would be constructed mainly on alluvial soils and on
sandstone. The average depth would be about 15 m and wells would be dug by
hand. They would be lined (reinforced concrete pipes), provided with filters
and finished with a concrete base plate. Small windmills with 20 cu. m. tanks
would be used on approximately half the shallow wells and hand pumps on the
other half. In all cases, however, a simple rope and bucket arrangement would
be installed as an emergency standby. Boreholes would be constructed where
it was necessary to bore 30 to 40 m for a satisfactory water supply. The
bore diameter would be about 15 cms and lined with a steel tube. It is ex-
pected that a hand-pump and trough would be used on about 45 boreholes, a
medium size windmill and 20 cu. m. tanks on about 90 boreholes and a large
windmill and 60 cu. m. tanks on the remaining 15 boreholes. The main items
financed would include earth-moviag equipment, fencing, water troughs and
piping, other construction costs, vehicles, spare parts, workshop equipment
and operating cost for four years. Staff and equipment for two pond construc-
tion teams (16 staff each), one pond maintenance team (2 staff), and three
5-man maintenance teams for deep and shallow wells would be provided (Annex 12,
Table 10-13).
Road Improvement (Annex 9)
4.08      The feeder road network in the Majunga Province would be improved
in order to facilitate access to villages primarily for veterinary and exten-
sion agents but also for supplies and marketing. About 170 km8 of secondary
roads would be upgraded or built over four years. Works would include con-
struction of small bridges, concrete aprons, and culverte and grading and
levelling steep slopes as well as normal grading and levelling. The average
cost of improving these roads would be about US$5,000 per km. Provision would
also be made under the Project for the annual maintenance of about 280 kms of
roads at an annual cost of about US$300 per km. The main items financed would
include equipment for both a public works road construction and a road main-
tenance unit, spare parts, fuel, materials and other operating costs including
wages and salaries for supervisory and professional staff (Annex 12, Tables
15-17). Priority in road improvement would be accorded to: (i) the area
surrounding the city of Majunga where the main trunk roads are generally ade-
quate and where development of access roads to isolated villages could be
achieved at a relatively low cost and (ii) the Maintirano prefecture where
the basic road network is poor and improvement of the principal axes must
precede feeder road development. Agreement was reached at negotiations that
the Department of Public Works would repair and maintain the Maintirano-
Morafenobe-Tsiroanomandidy road before any access roads are constructed or
improved in the area under the Project.



- 13 -
Education, Agricultural Trainingand Health Facilities (Arnex 5)
4.09      Twenty-eight village primary schools would be constructedz most
would be located in the Maintirano prefecture where there is a serious shortage
of school facilities.  They would normally have three rooms and w7ould serve
an average of 75 pupils. Construction costs would be shared in a proportion
of approximately 70% to 30% between FAFIFAMA (which would provide materials,
equipment and technical assistance) and the Fokonolona (which would furnish
labor and materials available locallv). FAFIFANA would also provide basic
equipment and supplies necessary to set up the school.
4.10      Under the Project, an Agricultural Training Center (Centre de
Formation Professionelle) for about 80 students would be constructed in
laintirano.  The center, a simple four-room structure, would specialize in
practical training for farmers in livestock husbandry. Provision would be
made for basic supplies and equipment and for a four-wheel drive vehicle to
be used for students' field work. Investment items would include buildings
and equipment (Annex 12, Table 20).
4.11      Eight mobile healtlh units (Annex 5) would be established: most would
operate in the M4aintirano prefecture where access to medical care is limited.
The units would be staffed by a public health officer, a nurse and driver-
mechanic who wqould travel continuously over an area approximately the size
of a suh-prefecture. Thev would emphasize basic health education such as
sanitation and nutrition and preventive medicine. The principal investment
items for each unit would be housing and office facilities at a central
location, a four-wheel drive vehicle, basic medical supnlies and equipment,
simple garage equipment for vehicle maintenance, and operating costs over
four years (Annex 12, Table 18).
Middle West Pilot Development Programs
4.12      OMBY Extension Pro         An extension program rwould be established
for 40 villages surrounding the four OMBY state ranches financed under the
Beef Cattle Development Project (paras 3.01-3.03). The program would assist
villagers in livestock development (beef cattle, pios and poultry), and basic
crops (rice, maize, manioc, and peanuts). Each ranch would provide veterinary
services, crop extension services, tractor services, seeds and fertilizer (as
seasonal credit, with payment at harvest-time), and a primary school and health
center. The principal investment items would be vehicles and equipment for
extension workers, agricultural equipment, school buildings and health centers,
seeds and fertilizer and operating costs (Annex 12, Table 23).
4.13      VilaeShare Fattening.  In each of about 30 villages in the
Middle West Zone, OMBY or ODEMO (according to the village's location) would
establish a share fattening program.  OMIBY/ODE.MO would develop about 25 ha
of stylo and purchase on the local market about 100 4-year old steers per
village (about 20 head to 5 individual villagers). Villagers would herd cattle
on both the improved and unimproved communal pasture and provide supplemental feed
feed when necessary.  They would dose for liver fluke and follow other veterinary



- 14 -
and husbandry techniques under the general guidance of an extension and veter-
inary service which OMBY/ODEMO would provide. After about one year OMBY/ODEMO
would market the steers and the gross profit (difference between purchase and
sale price) would be divided equally between OMBY/ODEMO and the villagers.
Share fattening on the above lines is well known in Madagascar but it has not
previously been linked to improved pasture and veterinary and extension services
(Annex 12, Tables 28-32).
4.14      Pilot Pig Program.  A pilot pig program would be established under
the auspices of ODEMO (para 2.15). Fifty small pig farms would be developed
in villages in the vicinity of Kianjasoa research station. A typical farm
would be about 8-10 ha with 5 breeding sows and would produce about 65 pigs
annually.  Pigs would be fed manioc, maize and peanuts grown on the farm.
Pig farmers would be provided with essential services including veterinary
and extension services, machineri contract service, and credit and marketing
services by a management unit established under the Project (para 5.12).
The main investment items would include breeding stock, piggeries, food
storage facilities, a veterinary and extension service, tractor equipment,
and operating costs for one year (Annex 12, Tables 34 and 37).
Technical Services (Annex 12, Table 40)
4.15      Technical services 'ould include:
(a)  Training.  Four 2-year overseas fellowships for selected
graduates in range management, pig production, dairy pro-
duction and agricultural economics as well as local in-service
training for FAFIFAMA staff.
(b)  Applied Investigational Work.  FAFIFAMA would need to conduct
simple applied investigations including cheap methods of stylo
establishment; effect of husbandry practices on livestock perform-
ance; management of natural and improved pastures; and simple
methods of providing village water supplies. It is expected that
FAFIFAMA's veterinary and extension staff would carry out this
work in conjunction with their routine duties. Small amounts of
additional fertilizers, veterinary supplies and minor consul-
tancy services would be required.
(c) Evaluation, Monitoring and Project Preparation. Many parts of
this Project should be reproduceable (particularly the veterinary
and extension service and pasture improvement) and after careful
study could be extended either to the remainder of Majunga
Province or elsewhere in the country. In addition the Project
itself may need modification in the light of operating experience
and performance. For example, the area or the number tof cattle
serviced by a village livestock agent may need modification.
Furthermore, evaluation and monitoring will be essential as a
basis for future project preparation. Attention should be given



- 15 -
to identifying the most suitable methods of disseminating
agricultural information (radio, adult education and extension
agents) and to the advantages and disadvantages of each method.
The Director of Livestock would be responsible for evaluation,
monitoring and project preparation as any replication or exten-
sion of the Project may not involve FAFIFAMA. Although present
arrangements for livestock marketing and slaughter are adequate
to meet Project needs (paras 2.09-2.10), there are deficiencies
which eventually will constrain future livestock development.
Therefore funds are provided for overall studies identifying,
inter alia, project possibilities in marketing and slaughtering.
Support for a cadastral survey is included to assist Project
implementation in areas where the clarification of land tenure
rights is delayed by lack of funds for survey and administrative
work.
Environmental Impact
4.16      Under the Project, tne improvement of natural pasture by sowing
stylo and the adoption of a st'rlo-cropping rotation is emphasized.  Since
these two practices, coupled with controlled burning, are the best means for
controlling erosion, the Project is expected to have a beneficial environmental
impact.
C. Project Costs (Annexes 12 and 13)
4.17      Total Project cost is estimated at Fmg 2,751 million (US$12.8
million) of which US$6.4 million or 50% represent foreign exchange require-
ments. Details are summarized in the following table:



- 16 -
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total   Exchange
----Fmg 'million  -----US$ '000--- ---   ---
Majunga Province
Developments
FAFIFAMA
Headquarters          45.4        5.9     51.3    210       30       240     13
FAFIFAMA
Veterinary &
Extension Service    117.6       143.5    261.1    540      670    1,210      55
Pasture Improvement    55.2        38.4     93.6    260      180       440     41
Water Points Con-
struction and
Maintenance           191.6      282.8    474.4    890   1,320    2,210       60
Road Improvement       145.2      139.8    285.0    680      650    1,330      49
Rural Education         57.9       20.1     78.0    270       90       360     25
Mobile Health Units    37.9        76.3    114.2    170      360       530     68
Sub-total          650.8     706.8  1,357.6  3,020   3,300    6,320        52
Middle West Pilot
Programs
Extension Program       87.0      ^65.6    152.6    400      310       710     44
Village Share
Fattening Program      70.8        5.3     76.1    330       20       350     57
Pilot Pig Program       51.9       35.9     87.8    240      170       410     41
Sub-total          209.7     106.8    316.5    970       500    1,470      34
Technical Services      18.3       73.3     91.6      90     340       430     79
Total              878.8     886.9  1,765.7  4,080   4,140    8,220        50
Contingency
Allowances
Physical                87.9       88.7    17E.6    410      410       820     50
Price                  402.5     405.8    808.3  1,870   1,880    3,750        50
Total
Project Cost:   1,369.2   1,381.4  2,750.6  6,360   6,430   12,790         50
Costs have been estimated at prices'prevailing at the end of 1973.  A physical
contingency of 10% and a cumulative price contingency of 12% annually have
been applied to all Project items. Taxes and import duties on Project goods
are estimated at Fmg 140 million (US$0.7 million). The phasing of investment
costs and a breakdown of Project costs by Project item is given in Annex 13.



- 17 -
D. Financing
4.18      Financing of Project costs would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:
Government   Villagers   IDA    Total
------------ US$ million ------------
Total Project Cost           3.04          0.15      9.60   12.79
Percentages                  24%            1%       75%    100%
4.19      The proposed IDA credit of US$9.6 million would be to Government
on standard IDA terms. The Credit would finance about 75% of total Project
costs.  Government's contribution (US$3.04 million) would amount to about 24%
of total Project costs; this would be offset to the extent that Project costs
include about US$0.7 million for taxes and duties. IDA's contribution exclud-
ing taxes and duties would be about 80% of total Project costs. The villagers'
contribution (US$0.15) would be about 1% of total Project costs.
4.20      Funds for the veterinary and extension service, pasture improvement,
construction and maintenance of water points, roads and rural education would
be channelled to FAFIFAMA. Funds for mobile health units would be channelled
to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Funds for the pilot extension program in
the Middle West Zone would be channelled to OMBY. Funds for share fattening
would be onlent to OMBY at 7.25% anuiually for a term of 13 years with a 3-year
grace period.  Funds for the pilot pig prog am would be onlent to OMBY at 5%
annually for a term of 20 years with a one year grace period. OMBY would
onlend to pig farmers at 7.25% annually for a term of 5 years with a one year
grace period. The interest rate of 7.25% reflects the current commercial
rate in Madagascar for share fattening and pig production. The 5% interest
rate to OMBY for the pig program is appropriate because of the pilot develop-
ment nature of this eomponent. Although ODEMO would be the implementing agency
for part of the share fattening program and all of the pig program, for legal
reasons funds for both these programs would be channelled through OMBY. Funds
for Project related research, training, Project evaluation, monitoring and
project preparation would remain with Government and would be handled through
the Ministry of Rural Development. It would be a condition of Credit effec-
tiveness that subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to IDA would be executed
between Government and OMBY and that an agreement satisfactory to IDA had
been entered into between Government and FAFIFAMA for the transfer and use of
Project funds.



- 18 -
E. Procurement
4.21      Contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment (US$2.4 million)
would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for borehole construction (US$1.2 million)
would be tendered locally, since the amount involved would not attract inter-
national competition. There is sufficient local competition for works of this
kind and size. Due to the non-availability in Majunga Province of suitable
contractors and since the diversity of items and their dispersed location would
be unlikely to attract international and local bidding, construction of cattle
handling facilities, buildings, housing, schools, water ponds and stylo planting
would be carried out directly by FAFIFAMA. Shallow wells would be constructed
by force account (para 5.05). Road improvement and maintenance would be
carried out by the Department of Public Works by force account (consistent
with current practice). Construction of piggeries and buildings for the pilot
pig scheme would be subject to local competitive bidding. Procedures for
local bidding are satisfactory and there is sufficient competition for work
of this size and kind in the Middle West Zone. Draft tender documents for
all contracts exceeding US$ 50,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval
before invitations were issued. Because of the small size of individual
purchases, items such as single tractors, single tractor attachments, spare
parts, furniture, veterinary equipment and supplies, etc. would be procured
locally; supplies are adequate and competition between firms is satisfactory.
Cattle and pigs would be purchased locally.
F. Disbursements (Annex 14)
4.22      Funds from the Credit A-count would be disbursed over four years on
the following basis:
(a) 100% of the foreign or 85% of local expenditures for road
construction and maintenance equipment (US$0.6 million) and
other vehicles and equipment (US$1.0 million);
(b) 75% of total expenditures for civil works carried out by
contractors (US$1.0 million) and by force account (US$0.8
million), and for agricultural inputs (US$0.4 million); and
(c) 65% of total expenditures for wages, salaries and other costs
(US$1.8 million);
(d)  100% of the foreign and 80% of locâl expenditures for technical
services (US$0.4 million).



-» 19 -
Disbursements against (a), (b) and (d) would be fully documented; disburse-
ments against (c) would be made against certificates of expenditure, the
documentation for which would not be submitted for review, but would be
retained by the borrower and made available for inspection by IDA during the
course of Project supervision missions.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.23      Separate accounts for the Project would be kept by the FAFIFAMA
and OMBY. It had been agreed during negotiations on the Beef Cattle Develop-
ment Project that OMBY would keep annual accounts to be audited by this same
Government auditor. Disagreement over the form of the accounting system,
however, has delayed the preparation of OMBY's accounts by about three years.
Steps were taken to remedy this situation recently when OMBY hired a private
accountant; a new form of accounts was produced which received IBRD's
approval, and annual financial statements for the 1969-73 period are expected
to be completed shortly. From then on, auditing procedures will be carried
out as originally anticipated.  In the contaxt of establishing FAFIFAMA as an
agency, the appointment of a private auditiixg firm would be appropriate and
a number of competent auditing firms are available in the country. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that: (i) OMBY would maintain separate
accounts for the Project; (ii) FAFIFAMA, with the assistance of an independent
accounting firm whose selection would be approved by IDA, would establish an
accounting system for all its operations; (iii) FAFIFAMA, OMBY's accounts
would be audited annually; and (iv) a certified copy of FAFIFAMA's audited
accounts, as well as of OMBY's audited accoutnts for portion of the Project,
would be sent to IDA within six months after the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
5.01      The Ministry of Rural Development's Livestock Department would have
overall responsibility for coordination and implementation of all Project
activities. OMBY and ODEMO are already (and FAFIFAMA will be) under the
general direction of the Ministry of Rural Development. Project components
in the Majunga Province,        xception of the mobile health units, would be
implemented by FAFIFAMA, an agency which would be set up with substantial
administrative and financial autonomy. The Ministry of Social Affairs would
establish and maintain the mobile health units and would coordinate their
activities with FAFIFAMA. The pilot development programs in the Middle West
Zone would be implemented through OMBY (extension program and share fattening),
and ODEMO (share fattening and the pig program). The Director of the Livestock
Department would be directly responsible for training, studies, project prepa-
ration, and Project monitoring and evaluation.



- 20 -
FAFIFAMA (Annex 11)
5.02      FAFIFAMA would be set up as a quasi-autonomous agency responsible
for livestock develoiment in seven sub-prefectures of the Majunga Province
(Chart); a decree of April 5, 1974 established FAFIFAMA as a public establish-
ment and provided the legal basis for its operations. The General Manager
of FAFIFAMA would be responsible to a Board of Directors which would include
the Director of Livestock and representatives of the Ministries of Economy
and Finance, Social Af'Lairs, Education, Public Works and Mines, and of the
fokonolona in the Project area. The Minister of Rural Development or his
representative would serve as Chairman. The Board would have full respon-
sibility for policy and financial matters. FAFIFAMA would be buil, on an
existing Government organization, the Majunga Provincial Livestock Service,
and would take over its budget, personnel and functions for the seven sub-
prefectures where it will operate. FAFIFAMA Headquarters will be located in
the city of Majunga. In addition to the normal activities of the provincial
livestock services (para 2.13), FAFIFAMA would develop an intensive veterinary
and extension service in the seven sub-prefectures, implement the water
development and pasture improvement programs, and coordinate and supervise
road improvement and school construction.  The Government has selected this
method of administration as it considers that the establishment of FAFIFAMA
would allow for direct participation in Project administration by local repre-
sentative institutions, and would permit flexible and efficient organization
and management procedures. It should also ensure that the General Manager
of FAFIFAMA would have sufficient authority to administer and coordinate a
complex development program including several sectors of activity and different
Government agencies. It is Government's intention to use FAFIFAMA as a
development agency which mould provide basic services to the population and
it is not expected that revenue collected from participating villagers would
be sufficient to meet its entire operating costs. Some of these services
would be self-financing at an early stage and some would be provided as a
public service (para 6.07).  Overall FAFIFAMA staffing for the Project is
given in Schedule A which includes existing staff expected to be transferred
to FAFIFAMA from the Livestock Department who would be directly employed in
Project activities as well as additional staff provided under the Project.
Agreernent was reached during negotiations that Government would: (i) transfer
the Livestock Department's staff and facilities in the Majunga Province to
FAFIFXAA and submit details of such transfers; (ii) agree to a staffing plan
along the lines set otlt in Schedule A which would represent the minimum
expectations of a suitable structure for FAFIFAMA and that Government would
maintain FAFIFAMA staffing on that basis during Project implementation; (iii)
provide sufficient funds to FAFIFAMA each year to enable it to carry out the
Project; (iv) maintain the existing veterinary services in the eleven sub-
prefectures of Majunga Province not served by FAFIFAMA at the operational
level prevailing before the establishment of FAFIFAMA; and (v) ensure that
FAFIFAMA's General Manager would be appointed after consultation with IDA.
It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that FAFIFAMA's General Mana-
ger had been appointed.



- 21 -
5.03      Intensive Veterinary and Extension Service.  FAFIFAMA would organize
an intensive veterinary and extension service for seven sub-prefectures -
four in the vicinity of the city of Majunga and three around Maintirano (Map).
The service would be administered by two senior veterinarîans, one located in
dajunga city and one in the town of Maintirano and each would be assisted by
a senior veterinary adviser (internationally recruited) and supporting super-
visory and field staff. An internationally recruited animal production adviser
located at FAFIFAMA's headquarters in Majunga cïty would be provided to
strengthen animal production aspects of the service. In addition an animal
production extension off icer would be located in both Majunga city and Maintirano
town to work directly with field staff on animal husbandry and pasture management.
The field staff on veterinary and extension work (other than those mentioned
above) would comprise two assistant veterinarians, 10 veterinary and extemsion
supervisors and 100 village lîvestock agents. Eighteen supporting staff
including office personnel, mechanics, drivers and maintenance staff would
be allocated to the veterinary and extension service (Sehedule A).   Under
the reorganized service, village agents would lîve în villages, where housing
and other facilities would be provided. The village councils would be
involved in recruiting and supervising these agents.
5.04      Pasture Improvement.  FAFIFAMA would implement the pasture improve-
ment program in consultation wîth representatives of the fokonolona, which
would assist in selecting communal pasture for development (para 4.05). Seed
would be purchased mainly from OMIY which has a seed production unit. Although
the program would experiment with different methods of stylo cultivation,
almost all pasture improvement carried out under the Project would be by 10
tractors and equipment to be owned by FAFIFAMA. Ten tractor drivers and two
mechanics would be employed for this work, which would be carried out under
the direction of the animal production adviser.
5.05      Water Points Construction and Maintenance.  FAFIFAMA would be
responsible for the water development program, and it would organize a Water
Department for this purpose. The department head would be a fully qualified
water engineer seconded to FAFIFAMA from the Ministry of Mines, and he would
have responsibility for organizing the Water Department and implementing the
program. Two sixteen-man construction teama, including a foreman, would be
organized to construct an estimated 100 ponds wîth FAFIFAMA equipment. Shallow
wells would be constructed by local contractvor by force account by the
Mtnistry of Rural Development or the Department of Mines on behalf of FAFIFAY.Vw,
and the Water Department would ensure that the costS of force account works
were reasonable.  Boreholes would be constructed by prîvate contractors.  The
Water Department would evaluate applications from villages for water development
and decide what type of facility would be appropriate in each case. To ensure
that all facilities were serviced and maintained regularly (para 4.07),
FAFIFAMA's Water Department would organize and equip a two-man maintenance
team for ponds, and three five-man maintenance teams for shallow wells and
boreholes. Assurances that these arrangements would be carried out and that
the Department of Mines would provide FAFIFAMA with adequate technïcal support
to enable it to carry out the water developmerLt program were obtained during
negotiations.



- 22 -
5.06      Roads.  FAFIFAMA would have general coordinating responsibility for
Project road improvements. It woTlld be assisted by an engineer seconded from
the Department of Public Works.  The Department of Public Works would be
responsible for implementing all xoad construction and maintenance work under
the Project, and it would establish a road construction and a road maintenance
unit to implement works. Equipment and funds would be channelled to Public
Works through FAFIFAMA and both parties would consult and agree to work
schedules and priorities at the beginning of each year. Assurances as to
these arrangements were obtained at negotiations; an assurance was alseo
obtained that Public Works would, following completion of the Project, main-
tain all roads constructed or upgraded under the Project.
5.07      Rural Schools.  FAFIFAMA would be responsible for building and equip-
ping village schools in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and the
village councils. The agricultural training center would be established and
run by the Agricultural Training Service of the Ministry of Rural Development.
FAFIFAMA would assist village councils in the construction of schools and
would provide building plans, tradesmen, materials not available locally, and
basic achool supplies and equipment. FAFIFAMA would work closely with the
provincial service of the Ministry of Education in selecting sites for schools,
and in school design and construction; the Ministry would provide teachers
for all schools. Assurances that these arrangements would be implemented
were obtained during negotiations.
Mobile Health Units
5.08      The Ministry of Social Affairs would establish mobile health units
at eight centers in Majunga Province; it would construct the necessary facili-
ties directly or with small private contractors and would provide equipment
and staff (para 4.11). The Ministry would administer the units through the
provincial medical inspector, and his office would provide technical and admin-
istrative support. The Ministry would consult with FAFIFAMA in final selec-
nton of bases for the units and the staff of each unit would cooperate with
FAFIFAMA's field staff in its operations. Assurances on these arrangements
were obtained during negotiations.
Middle West Pilot Development Programs
5.09      The Director of the Livestock Department would have overall res-
ponsibîlity for organîzing and coordinating the OMBY extension program, the
share fattening program and the pig program. He would determine the number
and location of villages to be included in each pilot program, and in the case
of share fattening he would determine which villages would be handled by OMBY
and ODEMO. Since these are pilot programs to provide guidelines of future
development, he would ensure that each had a large measure of flexibility and
that needed modifications would be made in the light of operational experience.
5.10      OMBY would establish a special unit under an Assistant General
Manager to organize an extension and contract m4chinery service for 40 villages
surrounding its ranches. Each ranch would have an Assistant Ranch Manager for



- 23 -
extension, two veterinary and extension agents and two tractor drivers to run
the service (para 4.12) for about 10 villages. The budget and accounts for
this program would be kept separately from OMBY's commercial operations since
it is a community service expected only to cover operating costs.  OMBY would
work closely with ODEMO in establishing the program.
5.11      OMBY and ODEMO would administer the share fattening program (para 4.13).
In the case of OMBY ranches the Ranch Manager with the assistance of a veteri-
nary and extension agent would implement the program in villages surrounding
that ranch. An extension agent would service about 1,000 cattle in 10 villages.
Ranch tractors and machinery would be used to cultivate and plant stylo, and
cattle would be bought and sold using OMBY's existing marketing arrangements.
OMBY would sign a contract with individual villages who would fatten 20 to 30
steers a year (Annex 10, Appendix 1). In the case of ODEMO the program would
be implemented by its existing veterinary and extension staff as part of ODEMO's
normal operations, as it has past experience with similar programs. ODEMO ls
an agency of the Ministry of Rural Development and is responsible for a wide
range of rmral development activities in the Tsiroanomandidy sub-prefecture.
Funde for both OMBY and ODEMO would be channelled through OMBY.
5.12      The pig program (para 4.14) would be organized under the auspices
of ODEMO in the vicinity of the Kianjasoa Research Station, which would provide
technical assistance and breeding stock. It is anticipated that the program
would be administered as a cooperative or similar management Structure, with
separate staff and management. A management organization would be established
comprising a General Manager, an accountant, an extension officer, two exten-
sion agents and 14 supporting staff including office staff, tractor drivers
etc. The General Manager would be assisted by an internationally recruited
pig production adviser for 3 years. The management organization would provide
each individual farmer with the range of services needed for successful
operation including: tractor and machinery contract service to grow and
harvest feed requirements; veterinary and production extension service; feed
storage, milling and compounding service; supply of breeding stock and market
finished pigs; and assistance in designing and building piggeries. During
negotiations it was agreed that the Government would submit detailed proposals
on the organization of the program and its relationship with OMBY, ODEMO and
the research station before disbursements would be made for the program.
Technical Services
5.13      The Director of Livestock would be responsible for technical services
not directly administered by FAFIFAMA, including overseas training, evaluation
and monitoring, studies, and future project preparation. Assurances vere
obtained that consultancy contracte and terme of reference for studies vould
be acceptable to IVA.



- 24 -
Ir.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRODUCER BENEFITS AND PROJECT COST 1MECOVERY
Production
6.01      Annual incremental Project production by year 5 would be about
30,000 cattle (7,400 m tons of carcass meat) and by full development in 1986
kyear 12) it would be about 70,000 head (10,600 m tons of meat); this would
represent a 70% increase in production for the villages affected (or a 27%
increase for the whole of the Project area). By full development in year 5
the Project would also have provided for the fattening of an additional 3,000
steers a year (90 kg liveweight gain per head), production of an additional
4,470 pigs a year (300 m tons of meat), as well as for the annual incremental
production of rice, maize, manioc and peanuts valued at about US$450,000.
Marketing, Prices and Exports
6.02      All cattle produced under the Project would be marketed and pro-
cessed through existing systems, which are adequate to handle the anticipated
increased volume (paras 2.09-2.10). It is estimated that 80% of incrementaf
beef production would be exported, and 20% would be consumed locally (para
2.11).
6.03      The price of cattle at village level varies according to place and
season, but the price to producers in Majunga Province averages 60-70 Fmg/kg
liveweight; prices in the Middle West are somewhat higher, and liveweight
cattle prices in Tananarive in late 1973 ranged between 95 and 105 Fmg/kg.
Retail ineat prices are controlled by local authorities; the price of high
grade meat (bone in) in Tananarive was fixed at 230 Fmg/kg (US$1.07) in
October, 1973; this was below export parity levels. In calculating economic
benefits, however, current cattle prices were increased by 25% to reflect
international beef prices through 1980. Although exports of meat and meat
products have expanded rapidly in the past decade (para 2.11), and prospects
for expansion are good, domestic price controls on meat and physical quotas
on exports have discouraged beef production and slowed export growth. These
policies have important implications for livestock sector development. Prices
to producers have been depressed and they subsidize the price of meat to urban
consumers, thus exacerbating disparities between rural and urban incomes. At
a time when prospects for increasing exports are highly favorable, exporta
have been restricted and would have been likely to decline, given the slow
increase in overall beef production, the growth of the urban population, and
the relatively high per capita meat consumption (para 2.04). The Government,
however, is conscious of the need to provide adequate incentives to farmers
to encourage livestock production and to încrease meat exports. It intends
to phase out price controls and lift export quotas over a period of four years,
or earlier if developments in the livestock sector occur as anticipated. As
a commencement, consumer meat prices have recently been raised substantially.
6.04      Pigs, poultry, and crops produced under the Project would be marketed
locally by village producers. The pig price is high relative to beef (about
190 Fmg/kg live-weight) (US$0.88), as are poultry prices. Most maize and



- 25 -
manioc would be consumed locally or f ed to pigs; the price of maize is about
25 Fmg/kg (US$0.12). The price of paddy to the producer is currently about
27 Fmg/kg.
Producer Benefits
6.05      Benefits to village producers in the Majunga Province that can be
readily quantified (increased cattle offtake) would be derived primarily from
the intensified veterinary and extension service and from water development.
TheLroad improvement program would contribute directly to these activities by
facilitating access to villages; it would improve communications, facilitate
the marketing of crops and livestock, and permit more effective Government
services at village level. The pasture improvement program would be designed
primarïly to demonstrate the value of stylo for beef production on a wide
scale, but it wvould directly benefit participating villages by improving the
quality of cattle, increasing weight gains, and permitting an increase in
villâge herd size where natural pastures are currently stocked to capacity.
The rural schools program and the mobile health units would contribute to the
Project's benefits by improving relations between villagers and administration
officials, thus making extension services more effective. They would also
bendfit the population by raising literacy levels, encouraging experimentation
in Ipn-formal education, and improving general health conditions, and thus
contributing to the general development of the area.  The Middle West pilot
development programs would result in direct benefits to village participants
by increasing production of livestock and crops, thus raising the level of
rural incomes. Their more important function, however, would be to demon-
strate the value of new technologies and to assist in preparation of future
projects that would aim at extending these techniques on a broad basis.
6.06      The financial rate of return on investment would be as follows:
over 100% on the veterinary and extension service; 34% for pond development,.
41% for shallow wells and 22% for boreholes, (assuming that the veterinary
and extension service is also provided); 88% for the OMBY extension program,
28% for the village share fattening program, and 36% for the pig program
(Annex 15). In calculating these returns 1973 prices were used and all
investment and operating costs were taken ïnto account. As the villagers
would not contribute to some investments (roads, health and pasture demonstra-
tion) and only in part to the remainder, these rates of return understate the
benefits to them. These rates of return are high because they only reflect
the incremental costs. Other benefits that cannot readily be quantified are
discussed in para 6.05.
Recovery of Project Costs
6.07      Overall, Project investments will yield high economic and financial
rate of return. Nevertheless, full recovery of all investment coasts is
constrained by two principal factors. The first is the lack of a suitable
institutional mechanism, since at present there is no mechanism by which long
term loans could be extended to villages for development: local government
institutions are in a transitional period and do not have the legal authority



- 26 -
to borrow at this time (para 2.03), and the BNM would not lend for this pur-
pose under its current policies, nor is it physically capable of doing so
(para 2.15). More importantly, several of the investments require a long
demonstration period if poor and isolated villagers are to be persuaded as
to their desirability. On the other hand, the Government's existing tax
structure when applied to Project output would automatically yield increased
returns to Government. In considering the recovery of Project costs below,
the investment costs fall into three broad categories: (i) those which yield
returns to beneficiaries but where Government could not obtain full recovery
(pasture improvement and water supply); (ii) those which yield returns to
beneficiaries and Government can obtain a reasonable recovery (share fattening,
pig program, FAFIFAMA veterinary and extension service, and OMBY extension
service); and (iii) those which are generally provided as a public service
and recovery is indirect (roads, education and health).
6.08      Villagers would pay in full the co0t of maintaining water points
developed under the Project by an annual fee to FAFIFAMA, but would not directly
pay for the capital investment in water developments.  The development of
stylo on communal grazing land is designed to demonstrate the value and agri-
cultural potential of stylo throughout the Majunga Province, where villagers
have had no experience with this potentially important technical innovation.
FAFIFAMA nonetheless plans to recover costs for pasture development directly
from beneficiaries to the extent feasible without detracting froei the Project's
purpose of improving services end demonstrating new techniques. The arrangements
proposed here are reasonable in view of the low level of development of the
province and the limited capacity of village producers to repay investment
costs.
6.09      Vaccination of cattle is currently provided free of charge throughout
Madagascar as a public service, and villagers could not be expected to pay the
initial cost of improving veterinary and extension services.  Hovever, after
a period of demonstration, participating villagérs would be expected to pay the
full cost of operating the service; this would involve an annual charge.
FAFIFAMA would charge villagers the cost of drugs as soon as possible, but it
is not anticipated that these costs could be recovered for at least four years,
since villagers would have to be convinced of the effectiveness of drugs that
have not previously been available before they could be expected to pay for
them. Villagers participating in the OMBY extension program would pay opera-
ting and service costs in full through direct payments for drugs, seeds,
fertilizers and contract plowing and through an annual service charge. OMBY
and ODEMO would recover from beneficiaries the full cost of establishing
and operating the share fattening program, and OMBY would repay the initial
loan to Governnent with interest charged at a rate of 7.25%. Pig farmers
would be required to repay farm development loans in full with interest
charged at 7.25%, and the overall loan for establishing the program would
be repafd to Government in full vith interest charged at 5%. Farming in
the Middcle West Zone is more developed and more prosperous than in Majunga
Province and Project costs would be recovered directly from beneficiaries
almost in their entirety; interest on loans would be charged at rates equi-
valent to those prevailing for comparable agricultural loans through the



- 27 
Bl\! (para 2.15).  The objective of the recovery mechanisms proposed for the
Middle West pilot programs is to ensure that the services do not require
Government subsidies.
6.10      The capital and operating costs of road improvement, schools, and
mobile health units would be viewed as a public service; however, villagers
would contribute 30% of the total costs of school construction. During nego-
tiations, the Government agreed that costs would be recovered directly from
beneficiaries as outlined above.
6.11      A Government cash flow related to the Project îs at Annex 16.
Government benefits arise principally from existing indirect taxes on live-
stock marketing, meat processing and meat exports (Annex 4, Table 6). It is
estimated that at full development additional revenue resulting from incre-
mental cattle marketed would amount to approximately US$450,000 a year, aid
if roads, health and education are excluded this would be more than adequate
to repay investments and operating costs over the Project period.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
7.01      The benefits of the Project consist of:  increased production of
beef (10,600 m tons per year); 3,000 steers fattened per year; increased
production of pig meat (300 m tons per year); increased production of rice,
maize, manioc and peanuts valued at about US$450,000 per year; provision of
essential services (water, roads, education and health). By 1986 (at full
development) the net foreign exchange earnings from incremental exports would
be about US$10 million annually (Annex 17, Table 3).
Economic Rate of Return (Annex 17)
7.02      The economic rate of return from the Project is estimated at 69%.
In calculating the economic rate of return it was assumed that prîce controls
on meat would be removed. Project operating and investment costs with the
exception of education, health and technical services were included in the
rate of return calculation. The economic cost of farm labor was assumed to
be zero as this additional family and village labor is small and would not be
otherwise employed. For construction of roads, water points and buildings
the cost of unskilled labor is valued at prevailing wage rates, which are
assumed to reflect the economic cost of labor. If foreign exchange costs
and benefits are valued at Fmg 270 per US$1.00 to reflect the scarcity value
of foreign exchange, the overall economic rate of return would be increased
by 1% to 70%. Separate financial rates of return have been calculated for
those separate Project components which are directly productive (para 6.06),
and each of these is satisfactory; in each case the economic rate of return
would be higher.



- 28 -
Sensitivity Analysis
7.03      An increase in total costs of 10% would lower the rate of return
by 7% (to 62%); an increase of 20% would lower it by 13%.  A decrease in total
benefits of 10% would lower the rate of return by 8% to 61%, and a decrease
in total benefits of 20% would lower the rate of return by 16%. However, the
Project does involve an element of risk. While the potential for expanding
livestock production through village producers is great, successful development
is dependent on an effective and well organized veterinary and extension ser-
vice and efficient implementation of other Project works. Care is required
by the Government and IDA to ensure that the standards of operation of services
provided under the Project are maintained at a high level.
Employment and Income Distribution
7.04      The Project would benefit more than 80,000 poor rural families
(400,000 persons). Per capita cash incomes in about 2,000 villages in Majunga
Province would be increased from US$20 to US$30 a year; current subsistence
per capita income is estimated at US$40 a year. Under the OMBY Extension
Program, per capita cash incomes in 40 villages (8,000 persons) would increase
from about US$35 to US$65.  The per capita incomes of 50 families (250 persons)
participating in the pilot pig program would be about US$340 at full develop-
ment (year 6); this estimate reflects current high producer pig prices in
Madagascar. The share fattening program would increase per capita cash
incomes of participants (750 persons) in 30 villages by about US$70. In
addition, employment would be provided for about 300 during the construction
period. The Project would primarily benefit the poorest segment of the
population, since it would benefit villages living close to subsistence levels.
Income distribution within Madagascar would also be promoted by the removal
of controls on meat, which would permit an increase in prices to village
producers.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a) transfer of staff, facilities and budget allocation of the
pronvicial livestock service for seven sub-prefectures of
Majunga Province to FAFIFAtA (para 5.02);
(b) provision of funds to FAFIFAMA each year to enable it to
carry out the Project; (para 5.02);
(c)  consultation with IBRD at least once a year on pricing,
export quotas and other policies relating to the produc-
tion, processîng and marketing of beef cattle to encourage
production and export of beef cattle and to ensure the
financial viability of livestock producers (para 6.03).



- 29 -
8.02      The Government has enacted a decree establishing FAFIFAMA as a
public establislhment (para 5.02).
8.03      Conditions of Credit effectiveness are:
(a)  the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to
IDA between Government and OMBY and a Project funds agree-
ment between the Government and FAFIFAMA (para 4.19); and
(b)  the appointment of FAFIFAMA's general manager (para 5.02).
8.04      A condition of credit disbursement for the pig program is the
submission of detailed proposals for the organization of the program and its
relationships with OMBY, ODEMO and the Kianjasoa Research Station (para 5.12).
8.05      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$9.6 million on standard terms.






MiDAGASCAR
SCHEDULE A
STAFFING OF FAFIFAMA FOR FROJECT ACTIVITIES
N u m b e r o f S t a f f
Position                  Before Development l                 Year
1    2    3    4
Headquarters
General Manager                   -                    1    1    1    1
Sociologist                       -                    1    1    1    1
Senior Accountant                 -                    1    1    I    1
Administrator                      -                    1    1    1    1
Engineer (civil)                  -                    1    1    1    1
Accountant                         -                    1    1    1    1
Clerk                             -                    6    6    6    6
Storekeeper                       -                     2    2    2    2
Typist                            -                     7    7    7    7
Mechanic                           -                    1    1    1    1
Driver                            -                     2    2    2    2
Maintenance Staff                  -                    6    6    6    6
Veterinary and Extension Service
Senior Veterinarian        2/     1                     2    2    2    2
Senior Veterinary Adviser -  2/  -                      2    2    2    2
Animal Production Specialist      -                     1    1    1    1
Extension Officer                 -                    2    2    2    2
Assistant Veterinarian             2                    2    2    2    2
Veterinary and Extension
Supervisor                     10                   10   10   10   10
Village Livestock Agent          30                    80  100  100  100
Accountant                        1                     2    2    2    2
Clerk                             2                    4    4    4    4
Mechanic                           -                    2    2    2    2
Driver                            1                    4    4    4    4
Maintenance Staff                  3                    6    6    6    6
Pasture Improvement
Tractor Driver                     -                   10   10   10   10
Mechanic                           -                    2    2    2    2
1/ Personnel of the Provincial Livestock Service who will be transferred
to FAFIFAnA Wo work directly on Project activities; other staff of FAFIFAMA
are not listed. Incremental staff only financed uider the Project.
2/ Internationally recruited.



Water Development
Water Engineer -                                       i 1        i 1
Assistant Water Engineer                              1    1    1    1
Foreman                                                2    2    2    2
Technician                                             2    3    4    4
Driver                                                 9    9    9    9
Mechanic                                               3    4    5    5
Workman                                                2    2    2    2
Road Improvement
Road Engineer 2/                  -1                              L 1    1
Assistant Engineer                                      1       1     1
i/  Seconded to FAFIFAMA by Department of Mines.
2/ Seconded to FAFIFAMA by Ministry of Public Works.
Note:  FAFIFAMA will employ tradesmen and workmen for construction of rural
schools as required. All works will be under the guidance of the
civil engineer located at Headquarters. It is expected that local
Fokonolona will provide virtually all the labor required.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Malagasy Admrinistrative Structure
Natina1landUe ionalÂAdminîstration,
1.         The Malagasy administrative system is highly centralized in national
governmental institutions located in the capital, Tananarive. Local adminis-
tration is the responsibility of a hierarchy under the Ministry of Interior,
and is based on the six provinces, prefectures, sub-prefectures and cantons
and communes.
2.         The Governor is the chief executive of the province, and he is respon-
sible for direct administration of the Province and for supervision of two or
three prefectures (under a prefect), and sub-prefectures (under a sub-prefect)
whose size and number vary. There are three prefectures (Majunga, Antsohihy,
and Maintirano) and eighteen sub-prefectures in the Majunga province. The
Tsiroanomandidy sub-prefecture is part of the Miarinarivo prefecture of the
Tananarive Province. The principal ministries of execution (agriculture, pub-
lic works, commerce, etc.) are also organized on a territorial basis, with
field offices at the provincial level, and at the prefectural or sub-prefectural
level. Until the present, the province has had a strong administrative rcle.
The Governor of the province had primary responsibility for coordination cf all
governmental activities within his jurisdiction, and for the maintenance of
public order.  The provincial budget, over which the Governor exerted consider-
able authority, financed not only the basic activities of local administration,
but also primary education and the secondary and tertiary road networks within
the province. The principal source of revenue of the provincial budget vas
the head tax on all adult males, and a tax on all cattle; these taxes were
abolished on January 1, 1973. There were also communal budgets administered
by local authorities. These budgets financed basic services, and communes or
groups of communes were empowered to borrow money for development projects,
notably for wells and small irrigation projects.
Administrative Reform
3.         The Malagasy Government is currently undertaking a basic reform of
territorial administration, which has two main parts. First, Most public
services that were previously financed and administered at the provincial
level are being centralized at the national level. This includes in parti-
cular primary education and construction and maintenance of secondary and
tertiary roads. The objective is,to permit national level coordination of
local development and the establishment of priorities at a national level.
Second, the Government is undertaking a major reorientation of local admin-
istration through a reform of local government. The new system is based on



ANNEX 1
Page 2
the traditional village community the fokonolona, and when the reform is
completed, there vill be a four-tier hierarchy of representative institutions
that vill ultimately replace the current administrative hierarchy, that is,
the commune and canton sub-prefecture and prefecture. The Government intends
at this time to retain the system of provincial administration for the fore-
seeable future.
4.         The fokonolona reform forms part of the Government's strategy for
»asic structural reform of society and for development administration.  The
basic principle (expressed in the law of March 24, 1973) of the reform is
"the control of development by the people", and "the democratization at all
levels of political, administrative and economic decision-making."
5.         The primary unit of the new system of local government is the
fokonolona, the traditional village unit which has for many centuries served
as a basic arbiter on social issues. In July and August, 1973, villages
throughout Madagascar organized themselves formally into fokontany, which
grouped an average of three villages each, and the members of each fokontany
(the assembly) elected a committee to represent them and to assume basic admin-
istrative functions. The powers and responsibilities of the fokonolona (as
articulated in an ordinance of August, 1973) are quite extensive and include
jurisdiction over public order, land questions, mutual assistance, public
health and hygiene and regulation of social disputes; the fokonolonas are also
to be the basic unit of economic development. Though there will be no formal
budget at the fokonolona level, they will be able to tax their members for
development purposes and to borrow money.
6.         The second level in the hierarchy is the firaisam-pokonolona, which
were organized for the first time in late 1973. The fokontany in assembly
designate representatives to the firaisam-pokonolona, which corresponds in
size roughly to the former communes, which were formally abolished. The
firaisam-pokonolona will not have a formal budget, but vill have the autho-
rity to collect funds from its members and to contract loans.
7.         The third level in the new hierarchy is the fivondronam-pokonolona,
which corresponds roughly to the current sub-prefecture. Members of this
body will be elected by the firaisam-pokonolona and will have a formal budget.
The national ministries will have field offices at this level, and there will
be a technical committee that will assist the representatives on technical
matters. The fourth level will be the faritany, the primary function of which
will be the administration of economic development activities. The faritany
will be elected by constituent fivondronam-pokonolona, and will correspond
in size roughly to the current prefectures, although it is anticipated that
the faritany jurisdiction will be areas defined for development projecte
rather than following strictly the current administrative boundaries. The
faritany will have development budgets and will have the authority to tax and
to borrow. The third and fourth-tier institutions will be organized during
1974.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.         In Majunga province there are one thousand fokontany, and about 250
firaisam-pokonolona.  The fokontany vill play a vital role in implementation
of the Project. Representatives of the new institutions, probably selected by
the faritany, vill be members of the Board of Directors of FAFIFAMA. The
fokontany will be consulted on all aspects of the Project, including selection
and supervision of village livestock agents, selection of sites for vater points
and pasture improvement demonstration, and collection of fees for drenching
and water point maintenance. While the new local government institutions will
be the focus of future development projects, and vill eventually be empowered
to borrow money and to undertake significant development activities, at present
the system is embryonic, and ic: is too early to expect that the fokontany can
assume significant financial obligations. The transitional state of local
administration and local government is a principal argument for regarding mo»t
Project activities during an initial period as a public service, and for not
requiring that all Project investment costs be directly recovered from bene-
ficiaries.
9.         The Middle West Zone is a more developed area than the Mejunga
Province, and it appears that the fokontany are prepared to assume an active
and dynamic role in development activities immediately. The fokontany wiiL
therefore be more directly involved in the implementation of the three Middle
West pilot development projecta.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and the Livestock Sub-sector
A. General
1.        Madagascar is an island situated in the Indian Ocean, nearly 400 km
off the southeast coast of Africa, it has an area of approximately 592,000
km2, making it the fourth largest :island in the world. It is about the size
of France or Kenya. It is relatively isolated, both economically and cultur-
ally, from neighboring African countries. Climate and other physical
conditions vary widely, from the tropical climate of the lowland coastal
areas to drier subtropical conditions of the central plateau wnere about 60%
of the population is concentrated. The population is now estimated at 7S5
million and is growing at a rate of about 2.5% per year. About 85% of the
population lives in rural areas and depends on agriculture for its livelihood.
Average densitv is about 13 people per km2.
2.        Madagascar has about 59 million ha of land; land use is summarized
in the following table:
Million ha
Upland pasture                          34.0
Mountains, deserts and lakes            17.0
Unimproved natural pasture               5.2
Cultivated                               2.8
Total                              59.0
Field crops are grown on about 5% of the total land area and contribute
about 70% of the value of agricultural output, whereas grasslands comprise
about 60% of the land area but contribute only 20% of agricultural output.
3.        There are five major agricultural production regions in the
country:
(a) the central plateau, which1 forms the central part of the island,
with highlands where irrigated rice is grown, and a middle west
zone, where soil and climate are ideal for growing a wide range
of crops (rice, maize, manioc, wheat) and for livestock develop-
ment (beef, dairying, pigs and poultry);



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(b) the east coast, where the main crops are coffee and vanilla;
(c)  the northern zone, which has a tropical climate, producing mainly
cash crops such as sugarcane, cocoa and spices;
(d) the west coast, with vast rangelands and rich alluvial soils
ideally suited to livestock production and cotton and tobacco
cultivation;
(e) the south, the least developed region, with an arid climate,
dependent largely on cattle.
4.        Soil erosion is a serious problem in many parts of Madagascar.
The main causal factors are:
(a)  a high annual rainfall concentrated in a few months combined with
undulating topography dominated by steep slopes and gullies in
many areas; heavy rains often accompany cyclones;
(b) lands that have been cleared, cropped for rice, and later
abandoned because of low yields, erode easily; and
(c) natural grasslands are burned each year during the dry season
and, consequently, soil humus levels are low. These grasslands
erode easily.
As a result, the landscape in many parts of Madagascar is scarred by erosion
gullies and much cultivable land with a good agricultural potential is
threatened. Contour plowing and the use of a crop rotation including
"Stylo" are the most effective erosion-control measures.
5.        Agriculture is the most important sector of MIadagascar's economy;
it supports directly about 85% of the population, contributes about one-third
of GDP, and is the source of about 85% of foreign exchange earnings. About
60Z of total agricultural production is consumed on the farm; the remainder
is sold to the urban population or as cash crope for export, or is processed
in Madagascar. The basic food crops are rice, maize and manioc. The prin-
cipal agricultural exporte are coffee, cloves, vanilla, pepper, rice and
meat. The growth of the agricultural sector has been sluggish; real agri-
cultural production increased by an average of 2.9% a year between 1966 and
1972 and, though the value of exports rose by 59% in the same period, export
volume rose by only. 16%. Livestock production accounted for about 10% of
total GDP at factor cost in 1972 and contributed about 14% of the value of
total exports. Beef production contributed nearly two-thirds of value added
in the livestock sector. Dairy products represented about 2% of the total
value of imports.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
B. Livestock
6.        Livestock represents a major national resource to Madagascar.
The livestock population îs esetimated at about 10 million cattle, about 1.7
million sheep and goats, and about 750,000 pige. They are distributed widely
over four main zones, described below (para 7), Majunga Province has about
2.8 million cattle and the Middle West about 1.5 million. Growth in the
national cattle herd has averaged about 1% annually over the past decade.
About 900,000 head of cattle are ilaughtered annually, a total offtake of
about 9%.  Only about 350,000 animals, however, are marketed or slaughtered
through commercial channels, resulting în a commercial offtake rate of about
3.5%.  Virtually all beef production comes from the traditionai sector since
the commercial beef producing sector îs limited to the OMBY state ranches
and a few private producers. Domestîc per capita beef consumption is rela-
tively high (about 16 kg). Official statistics show that per capita consump-
tion decreased by about 4% since 1966 and consumption appears to be statie
or decreasing slowly. The volume of meat exports doubled between 1966 and
1971. Exports remained static in 1972 and 1973 due to export quotas.
Main Zones for Livestock Production
7.        For livestock production, Madagascar can be divided into four main
ecoclimatic regions: the West, the Middle West and the Central Highlands,
the East Coast, and the South.
(a)  The West is the most important region for livestock production,
including more than half cf the national cattle herd and the most
important breeding areas. The clLmate îs tropical, characterized
by high temperatures during the sumer (average 270C) and a well-
defined dry season (April-November). Rainfall decreases from
north to south from 1,500 sm in Majunga to lees than 500 mm
around Tulear. Topographically, it is a sedimentary plateau, with
a slight slope towards the sea. The soîls are predominantly red
ferric clays. Calcic soils occur in some areas and these are
susceptible to prolonged droughts. Most red soils have a pH
varying from 4.6 to 5, and low organic matter, nltrogen, and
phosphorus levels.  Rich alluvial soils are found în a few areas
close to river deltas. Vegetation consista of open and woodland
savannah; the main grasses are Hyparrhenia în the low areas, and
Heteropogon and Aristida in the higher areas. Lack of drinking
water during the dry season (June-November) ls a serious limitation
to developing livestock and to utilizing the avaîlable pastures in
some areas. Savannah fires occur frequently and are unpredictable
and usually uncontrollable during the dry season. Theîr negative
impact on cattle production is partîcularly serîous and sometîmes
thousands of cattle have to be moved to other areas when vegetation
is burned at the beginning of the dry season. Research work



ANNEX 2
Page 4
carried out by IEMVPT 1/ has shown that controlled burning can be
beneficial and gives increased animal production from native
savannah.
(b) The Middle West and the Central Highlands are important breeding
and fattening zones, and a significant part of the herd are adult
working bullocks.  The region is characterized by plateau land
intersected by a series of gullies formed by fluvial erosion. The
lower parts of valley bottoms are sometimes extensive, retain
adequate soil moisture during the dry season (May-October) and are
often used for rice cultivation. The average rainfall is about
1,400 mm and the average temperature about 230C. The soils are
red clays with low orgaric matter levels and fairly acid. Although
these soils are susceptible to erosion, they are suitable for
growing a wide range of crops. The vegetation is savannah type,
with Hyparrhenia and Heteropogon species predominant. In the
better areas, Imperata cylindrica is found and Aristida grows in
the most eroded areas. The savannah feed quality and quantity
are good in the uplands from December through June, but quality
is poor during the dry season and cattle must have access to
bottom land if reasonable production levels are to be sustained.
(c) The East is the least important area for cattle production.
Average yearly rainfall (3,500 mm) and temperatures (250C) are
high and the dry season is short. The soils are clay laterites.
Steers are brought into this country from the west or the north-
west for draft purposes (puddling -ice fields), and for consumption.
(d) The South is extremely dry, with prolonged droughts and irregular
rainfall (average about 375 mm per year) and sandy-clay soils
predominate. The South has about 30% of the national cattle
population. However, the.potential of this region for increased
production is limited because of the arid climatic conditions.
Pasture Improveinent
8.        Tropical legumes, particularly Stylosanthes guayanensis and
humilis, offer considerable scope for improving vast areas of natural
grassland in Madagascar. The IEM VPT Research Station at Kianjasoa has
investigated date of sowing, establishment, management methods, effect on
soil texture and fertility, and utilization techniques for Stylosanthes
guayanensis. Similar research work has been carried out recently on lighter
soils with lower rainfall using Stylosanthes humilis, which was developed
bv OMBY under the Beef Cattle Development Project. Stylosanthes humilis
may be better adapted to the soils in the Majunga region.
1/   "Institut d'Elevage et Medecine Veterinaire des Pays Tropicaux."



ANNEX 2
Page 5
9.        Seeding rates should average about 5 kg per ha.  Seeding methods
vary from establishing on ashes, at the onset of the rainy season, to sowing
on a fully prepared seed bed. Preparation by light harrowing has also been
successful with strip sowing. Establishing on ashes is an attractive
technique because of its low cost and positive results. Large areas can be
covered quickly using this method. Density of seedlings per square meter
is lower compared with light harrowing during the first year, but after
three years with adequate management, the stands are comparable. Research
has shown that sowing date is important; November-December is the most
suitable period.
10.       Pasture management during the first six months is crucial to
successful establishment since the most serious threat to the survival of
Stylo seedlings is the strong competition for light from natural grass
species. Early grazing to provide adequate light is essential. Malagasy
experience shows that once es;:ablished, Stylo can survive competition and
spread slowly through natural seeding. After one year, it can withstand
fire. Although there is little evidence on the response to fertilizers,
experience to date shows that Stylo can be established and grown success-
fully without fertilizer application. Changes in soil structures, and a
build-up in soil fertility are evident three to four years after establish-
ment.
11.       The carrying capacity of natural pasture with traditional manage-
ment (uncontrolled grazing and burning) is about 10 ha per animal unit.
With controlled burning and grazing, it has been demonstrated that year-
round carrying capacities can be increased to about 3.5 ha per animal unit.
On improved Stylo pastures carrying capacities can be improved to about 1
to 1.5 ha per animal unit. The best systemn of utilization involves resting
or light grazing after April to provide good grazing during the critical
dry period (July-October). Soil and climatic conditions over vast areas
including the Middle West and most of Majunga Province are ideally suited
to Stylo, which remains green and provides good feed during the dry season
due to its deep rooting ability (6 to 10 m deep). Stylo can also withstand
burning; fertilizer application is not essential, and since it is a peren-
nial or an annual, regenerating from seed, improved pastures do not need
renewing.
12.       Apart from its undoubted value in developing improved pastures,
the broader agricultural implications of Stylo are even more important; it
can transform vast areas of upland now under unimproved pasture into high
potential cropping land (Middle West and Majunga Province) by permitting a
grazing/cropping rotation to be established. Without a grazing "break" to
build up soil fertility and humus, cropping, by reducing soil fertility and
organic matter levels, can cause severe erosion--already a serious problem.
The wide-scale adoption of Stylo could transform the agrîcultural scene and
planners must consider not only the technical agricultural implications but
also economic, social, and community development implications. Although
Stylo could provide a significant technological breakthrough, its impact



ANNEX 2
Page 6
will depend on the resolution of a number of major issues and on clear and
well-defined development policies, which have not yet been formulated.
These include: the pattern of farming and cropping suitable for different
regions; the size of farms related to farming systems and acceptable farm
incomes; Government land tenure policies for communal pasture areas in the
light of the above factors, but also taking into account the effect of long-
term population pressure, migration and settlement on land resources.
The OMBY ranches developed under the Beef Cattle Development Project
have utilized Stylo extensively in their pasture improvement program, and about
22,0(0 he have been successfully developed with strips of Stylo. The ranches
also have seed production blocks on about 250 ha. ODEMO has also developed
pastures with Stylo as part of a rotation for migrant farmers although to
date the principal motivation of villagers in cultivating Stylo appeari to
have been the sale of seed to OMBY. The pilot development schemes in the
Middle West will each include a component of Stylo, the village share fatten-
ing program will include development of .25 ha per animal (a total of 750 ha).
The OMBY extension program vill develop 20 ha per village with Stylo (800 ha)
and farmers will be assisted in developing Stylo as a part of a rotation;
participants of the Pig Program will also grow Stylo as part of their crop
rotation.
14.        The pasture improvement demonstration under the project would
establish tropical legumes on 10,000 ha of village communal grazing land in
the Majunga Province (50 ha per village for 200 villages) over four years.
Villages should be selected on the basis of interviews with Fokonolona. The
main species to be established would be Stylosanthes guayanensis, Stylosanthes
humilis and Phaseolus astropurpureum (Siratro), depending on soils and rain-
fall. Different methods of establishment will be used to find out which ones
are most suitable for the broad range of agricultural conditions in the Pro-
ject area. These would include: plowing and full cultivation; sowing after
burning with and without light harrowing; sowing in strips; sowing with and
vithout phosphatic fertilizer. Villagers vill be encouraged to fence the
sown areas, but fences are not considered essential since good herding can
achieve the same management objectives. The quantity of legume seed required
will be available from OMBY ranches and ODENO.
Animal Health
15.        Gastro-intestinal parasites are the main cause of mortality in
cattle. Surveys have shown that 50% of all calves die in their first year
in the Majunga and Tulear provinces. About 65Z of calves die when 1-3 months
old and mortality is also high when calves are 4-7 months and 8-10 » nths
old. Ascarids or a combination of Ascarids and Strongyloids are the main
cause of losses in calves 4-7 months old and this mortality peak is asso-
ciated with weaning stress; Strongyloids are also the main cause of losses
in calves 8-10 months old and this mortality peak is associated with nutri-
tional stress at the end of the dry period (September-October).



ANNEX 2
Page 7
16.        Although incidence and losses from Strongyloid parasite£ follow a
faiiliar pattern, Ascarid infestation of young calves is uncommon and is
seldom associated with high calf mortality. Madagascar is somewhat unique
in this respect and research has shown that about 75% of calves are infected
with Ascarids; immature Ascarids can cross the placenta, and calves may be
infected before birth. Infestation builds up rapidly and the peak parasite
burden occurs at about two months. The practice of confining calves and
other stock in a common night paddock fosters disease and infestation.
Research has also shown that about 40% of calves in Majunga Province are
infected with Strongyloids and that a combination of Ascarids and
Strongyloids, which occurs frequently, is particularly serïous.
17.        Treatment.  Valuable work carried out by IEMVPT and based on
extensive Malagasy experience provides clear recommendations for treatment.
First, calves should be treated when 1-3 months old to control Ascarids
or the combined infestation of Ascarids and Strongyloids; this treatment
will usually take place during the wet season. Secondly, calves should be
treated again when 6-10 months old to control Strongyloids; this treatment
will usually take place during the dry period. A number of good anthelmintics
are readily available and their effectiveness has been tested in Madagascar.
The cost of treating twice, as,outlined above, ranges from 30-40 Fmg (about
US$0.16) per calf.
18.        Rinderpest, Foot and Mouth Disease and Pleurophneumonia which
seriously affect herds in Africa do not exist. The island is also free from
Contagious Abortion, Trypanosomiasis and East Coast Fever, a situation main-
tained by good quarantine regulations. Anthrax and Blackleg are widespread
but can be controlled by systematic vaccination. However, inadequate control
of these diseases is reflected in high mortality and low calving percentages
over much of the country. Tuberculosis occurs in about 30% of the cattle
population and though responsible for partial carcass condemnations and some
mortality, it is not a serious threat to production. Liver Fluke is becoming
more widespread but can be contrclled by drenching. Streptothricosis, a skin
disease which affects certain strains of Brahman cattle, is not important,
since native Zebu cattle, Renitelos and some Brahman strains are resistant.
Cattle ticks are widespread but the native stock are relatively immune to
tick-born fevers.
19.        In summary, the major cattle scourges are absent and the diseases
responsible for economic loss in both cattle and pigs are controllable by
modern techniques; however, the effectiveness of control measures at village
level depends on the provision of an adequate veterinary service. The
principal objective of the proposed project is to increase the productivity
of about 1.1 million cattle in seven sub-prefectures of tne Maju,aga Province by
providing an efficient and well-organized veterinary and extcnsion service.
Traditional Cattle Production Methodt
20.        Virtually all beef production comes from the traditional sector
since there is little or no commercial beef production sector, with the



ANNEX 2
Page 8
exception of OMBY. Cattle are owned by individual farmers; the average herd
is small, about 15 head, with a marked variation in the size and composition
of herds. Farmers usually run their herds as a discreet unit, grazing valley
bottoms during the dry season. In the Middle West the traditional manage-
ment system consists of grazing by day, confining to a small fenced paddock
at night to prevent theft and losses from wild dog attacks.  Growth rates
are severely restricted and bacterial disease hazards are increased because
of the unsanitary conditions. In the Western region animals are seldom
confined to night paddocks and are allowed to graze more freely since theft
ÂS not a major hazard. Traditional husbandry systems result in low technical
coefficients: birth rate, 40 to 60%; calf mortality, 20 to 40%; and slow
grow-h rate to slaughter weights at 4-10 years. Apart from a minimal level
of herding and free Government vaccinations (Anthrax and Blackleg), there
are no other investments or inputs for the typical herd and, although output
is low, production costs are negligible.
21.        Total offtake from the traditional village herd is about 9Z assuming
a stable herd without expansion (Annex 12, Table 1). If all available heifers
are retained, the breeding herd could grow at about 1% per year, but sales
are reduced by about 4% compared vith a stable herd. With improved coeffi-
cients, the breeding herd could grow at about 5% per year, but sales would be
reduced by about 18%.
Profitability of Beef Production
22.        A typical herd has breeding cows, bulls, calves, steers and heifers
of various ages. Consequently, one can view a herd as made up of units of
about 2.8 head each consisting of a cow and her follovers. At current prices
to producers, a cow and followers (unit) ard worth about Fmg 38,000 and the
profit per cow is about Fmg 4,400 in the traditional sector. This can be
viewed as a return of 11.5% on investment in livestock. In this calculation,
there are no investments other than in livestock, and operating costs are
only about 15% of gross sales (Annex 12, Table 2). With improved coefficients,
the investment per cow unit is about 40,000 and profit per cow about 6,570
(Annex 12, Table 2). This can be vlewed as a 16% return on investument. If,
as in the case of Madagascar, grazing land is free, these are reasonable re-
turns from investments in livestock.
23.        If, however, beef is produced on pasture planted with Stylo (Fmg
6,450 her ha), and a carrying capacity of 1 animal unit per 1.5 ha Stylo is
assumed (3.52 ha/cow unit), the total investment per cow is about Fmg 61,000
and 63,000, assuming high and low coefficients as in the previous paragraph,
giving an internal rate of return 1/ of 6.2Z and 9.4%, respectively. If the
adoption of a system of production based on Stylo called for an investment of
1/ The assumption is made that Stylo is planted in year 1. Cattle are
purchased in year 1 and the first sales are in year 2.



NEX 2
Page 9
Fmg 10,000 per ha because of extra coste in fences, roads, cadastral survey
and so on, the internal rate of return would be 4.4% and 7.1%. From these
calculations it is apparent that investments in Stylo based on beef production
are just marginally profitable and must be accompanied by good production co-
efficients (offtake about 14%).  Investment in pasture improvement should not
exceed Fmg 35,000 per cow unit. At current prices the financial incentive to
expand beef production is not very strong if expansion requîres improvement
of natural pastures by planting Stylo. This is particularly significant since
a similar investient is required to cu5.tivate land, and returns to the farmer
are much higher. It is unlikely that farmers will invest in Stylo until the
full potential of natural pasture land is exploited and it is extremely diffi-
cult to gauge when this is reached. In some village areas the carrying capa-
cities have been reached while in others there is still some unexploited capa-
city. The latter is the case in much of the Majunga Province.
24.        A smaller area of Stylo per cow unit could be used to feed animais
during the dry season or to ensure a high plane of feeding for some cate-
gories (for example, weanlings or steers for share fattening). The use of
Stylo will require much greater stock and pasture management skills and,
therefore, its wide-scale adoption by traditional farmers for beef production
will be slow. Interest in Stylo, however, should not be confined to beef
production. In the Middle West for instance, Stylo could form the basis for
a dairy industry. Experience to date shows that cross-bred dairy cows can
produce about 2,000 kgs per head per year on Stylo pastures (1.5 ha per cow)
supplemented with manioc. Dairy farming because of the high output per ha
(about Fmg 53,000) can carry the higher investments associated with improved
pastures. In addition, when Stylo is used as part of a rotation, it enables
large areas of upland pastureland in the Middle West and the West to be used
for crops (maize, manioc and rice), thus potentially transforming vast areas
now under low producing natural pasture to high producing crop land.   For
instance, the area suitable for cropping in the Middle West alone could be
increased from about 200,000 ha to a possible 1.75 million ha. Therefore,
although beef farming is and will continue to be important because of the
vast resources of land and cattle involved, it is a residual activity in the
land-use sense and must rightly take second place to all other forms of
production. The peasant farmer understands this and strives to increase
the area under crops as being the best means of providing subsistence food
and a little cash. In contrast, he regards livestock as long-term capital,
which slowly grows in number (if breeding females are not sold) and appre-
ciates in value over time. Cattle constitute, therefore, his capital
savings for use in a family emergency (cattle are readily sold for cash)
such as death, marriage, school fees or dispute settlement.
Share Fattening
25.        An important traditional activity in the Middle West region is share
fattening of steers. The practice dates at least from the late nineteenth
century, when wealthy Malagasy cattle-owners employed villagers to fatten
cattle in the Tsïroanomandidy area. Migrants to this region depended lni-
tially almost exclusively on share fattening; subsequently, they began to



ANNEX 2
Page 10
develop rice paddies and grow other crops on the plateaus. Traditional
share fattening takes several forms, but the basic principle is that the
"owner" purchases a steer, the farmer fattens it for between six months and
three years, and when the steer is sold, the two parties divide the groas
profit.  In some cases, the share-owners may come from a single village;
in others, it is money lenders who purchase the steers; butchers from
Tananarive engage in the practice, as well as large land-owners or farmers.
ODEMO has used the system to channel loans to new migrants, and OMBY has re-
cently begun a share fattening program following a traditional pattern known
as. "Dabokandro". The system of fattening also varies, ranging from extensive
grazing for a long period with relatively large herds (up to 100), to more
int:ensive fattening on natural pasture in amall herds (20-30 steers), care-
fully herded, and finally to a single animal closely confîned and fed with
fodder crops and forage. Animals are grazed on bottom lands during the dry
season, and may be given some manioc. Liveweight gains vary from 50-120 kg
per head per year depending on the system of production used. Profitability
is closely related to the difference in the buying and selling prices. At
present in the Middle West cattle are bought at about Fmg 80 and sold at about
Fmg 90 per kg liveweight.
26.        This project would finance a share fattening program for villagers
in the Tsiroanomandidy sub-prefecture. It would involve 30 villages and
3,000 steers a year (100 steers per village). The program would be admin-
istered by OMBY and by ODEMO, and would include steer purchase, pasture im-
provement with Stylosanthes (.25 ha per animal in the initial year), and
veterinary services (Annex 12, Tables 28-32).
Pig Production
27.       The national pig herd is about 0.75 million head and about 0.4
million are slaughtered annually.  Since most of these are produced in the
traditional sector with a typical farmer owning one or two scavenger pigs,
these estimates are rough. Experiencec from Kianjasoa Research Station and
from the small number of commercial operations shows that the potential for
pig production is excellent particularly in the Middle West region.
28.       The liveweight price for pigs (about Fmg 190/kg) is high relative
to the feed price (about Fmg 19/kg).  The ratio of pig prices to feed prices
on a per kg basis is about 10 and strongly favors pig production. In most
countries the pig feed price ratio lies between 6 and 8. This favorable
ratio is due to the availability of home-grown manioc for inclusion in pig
rations, which can supply up to 60-70% of total feed (energy part). In the
above calculation home-grown manioc is assumed to supply 50 percent of the
total feed. The remainder of the ration is supplied by a mixture of maize and
peanut meal supplemented with minerals, vitamins and synthetic amino acids.
The main ingredients are included on a dry matter basis in the following
proportions: 50 parts manioc, 33 parts maize and 17 parts peanut meal. The
relative prices are about Fmg 10 (US$0.05), Fmg 22 (US$0.10) and peanut meal
Fmg 25 (US$0.12) per kg. Manioc, maize, and peanuts can be successfully



ANNEX 2
Page 11
grown particularly in the Middle West. The Kianjasoa Research Station locat-
ed in the Middle West has developed a successful system of pig production
using this method of feeding and has also demonstrated the housing require-
ments and the disease control measures that are required. The research sta-
tion has a large White Herd, about 23 sows producing an average of 18 pige
per sow per year.
29.       Since the climate is warm year round, housing requirements are
reduced to a minimum, permitting simple open-type shelters to be used as
protection from sun and rain, and for dividing pigs into manageable groups
for feeding and husbandry. Excessive heat can reduce feed intake and growth,
but this can be avoided by using an inexpen3ive water sprinkling device in
the yard.
30.       Although all the common diseases that affect pigs are present in
Madagascar they can be controlled by vaccination, hygiene and appropriate
veterinary treatment. Particular attention should be given to regular
vaccination against "Teschen Disease" (Meningo-encephalomyelite-enzootique
of pigs)-a contagious viral disease of the brain and nervous sytem that is
common in Madagascar, which causes high mortality in herde that have nou
been vaccinated. An effective vaccine against Teschen îs produced locally
and costs about Fmg 10 per pig vaccinated. All other vaccines and veteri-
nary medicines required for pigs are readily available in Madagascar, however,
both vaccine distribution and the veterinary service are poorly organized to
serve the small farmer at present.
31.       The encouragement of pig production should play an important role
in the future development of the agricultural sector in Madagascar. Efforts
should center on assisting the amall village producer and should be based
on home-grown feed.  However, the transition from a system of "backyard"
production with scavenger pigs to a more modern system is a difficult one,
and the extension of credit and technical assistance will rarely be adequate.
For this reason, it is proposed that this project would finance a pilot
program for pig development, which would lay a foundation for developing pig
production in future projects. It would be designed to provide traditional
farmers with all inputs required, in addition to credit and technical
assistance, and would thus demonstrate how villagers can utilize credit and
technology when given the opportunity to do so.
32.       Under the project, a pig program would be set up, in association
with Kianjasoa Research Station, to develop 50 small pig breeding/fattening
farms over two years in villages that surround the research station. The
management unit would supply all investment inputs and services and would
market pigs.  The investment items vould include pige, pig housing, pig feed,
machinery, seeds, fertilizer and technical services. These are shown in Annex
12, Tables 34 and 37. All breeding stock would be purchased from Kianjasoa
Station. Since it is the intention that the program would be financially
viable, it should ensure that all charges for inputs and services are suffî-
cient to cover costS and to allow a reasonable commercial margin.  The fees



ANNEX 2
Page 12
and charges set out in Annex 12, Table 35 are given as guidelines.  The
investment in pig housing, pigs and start-up costs (feed, madicines and labor)
(Annex 12, Table 34) would be regarded as a repayable loan and could be paid
in cash or in pigs.  The farmer would, however, be permitted to retain about
US$200 a year to cover living and other expenses during the repayment period,
which is estimated to be five years (Annex 12, Table 36).
33.       A feature of the project is that each farmer would grow the feed
needed for his six-sow herd (Annex 12, Table 35) on his own farm.  He would
require 3 ha of maize, 1 ha of manioc, and 2.5 ha of peanuts. In addition,
he would grow 2 ha of Stylo as a part of the cropping rotation. The manage-
ment unit would provide seed and fertilizers and a contract machinery service
for plowing, cultivating and harvesting. The farmer would sell maize and
peanuts to the management unit and buy back a ration suitable for feeding
with manioc, which is fed fresh from the row.
34.       The appraisal mission recommends that the pig program be run as a
cooperative or a similar management structure that would be owned by the
participating pig farmers, under the auspices of ODEMO. Hovever, the Government
would propose a form of organization to IDA prior to establishment of the
program. If it were organized as a type of cooperative, it is envisaged that
the General Manager would be responsible to a management commit tee which would
include representatives elected by farmer shareholders, one nominated by the
Director of Livestock, one nominated by ODEMO, and one nominated by the local
Fokonolonas. The management unit would employ all staff required to carry out
its functions and would be assisted by a pig specialist adviser for three
years.  If successful, the progrim could be expanded in time to a total of
100 to 150 shareholders and similar units could be set up in other areas of
the Middle West.
35.       Two previous development efforts have focused on pig production in
the Middle West: the Reunion Colony at Babetville, and ODEMO and its prede-
cessors.  The Reunion Colony is atypical in that it financed migration of
farmers from outside Madagascar.  It nov produces about 10,000 pige annually.
Farmers buy complete rations from a feed production plant, and feed it to
pige.  While the technology has been successful, the system of farming is
not readily applicable to the small farmers since it involves substantial
investment and is relatively costly.  A development organization established
in 1960 for the Middle West, also focused on pig production. Its efforts
were foeused on migrants from other parts of Madagascar who vere settled on
farms of 10-20 ha and given credit and technical assistance.  The program
was not successful; the failure can be attributed largely to poor selection
of participating farmers, the hostility of the native population of the re-
gion, and to an unnecessarily elaborate technology, and, consequently, large
laws and debts.  Since the collapse of the BDPA program, ODEMO has given
assistance to both migrant farmers and traditional villages in pig production.
This has concentrated on veterinary and extension services, sale of feed
concentrate, and small loans administered for the BNM for purchase of piglets.
ODEMO indicated that there is a great demand from villagers for piglets and
for assistance in pig production.  The principal constraint at present is
the limited supply of young pigs.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure
1.        The land tenure system in Madagascar is complex, particularly in
rural areas, wbere three different systems of property rights exist: (a)
"Modern" private ownership of land, which was introduced in 1881, and follows
French legislation and administrative procedures; official title is granted
by registration or by cadastral survey, provided that the applicant can dem-
onstrate uninterrupted and undisputed possession of a piece of property for
a period of 10 years; (b) Customary property rights under traditional common
law, which is a right of use granted by the rural community (the fokonolona),
which is regarded as the rightful owner; and (c) State ownership of land;
the fundamental legal assumption is that all land belongs to the Government
unless formal title is held by an individual and the land is fully exploited.
The basic law governing properuy rights (February 15, 1960) speils out rights
and procedures for granting of title to land.
2.        The registration of ownership follows an individual request and in-
volves a long and complicated procedure. Demand for official title is strong,
particularly in the High Plateau region, and in 1972 there were over 500,000
pending requests for land registration. The administrative system is unable
to process all applications, and there is a large backlog of requests. The
Government is at present emphasizing an alternative system for granting title
to land through cadastral survey. In some areas cadastral surveys are being
undertaken; individual property claimants who can justify their traditional
rights are given title to the land. Provisional and definitive title to land
may also be granted to individuals in areas defined as development zones.
Individuals apply for a plot of land, and have the right to ownership if they
develop the land for a certain period of time.
3.        The traditional system of land tenure follows the basic principal
that land belongs to the community, which has the authority to govern its
use. Individual ownership rights are recognized for land that an individual
has developed, so that cultivated land is normally viewed as the property of
the family which has farmed the land for an extended period of time. Pasture
land, however, is viewed as communal land, and its use is governed by the
village community, the fokonolona.
4.        The Malagasy Government has laid claim to large areas which are
either unexploited or on which traditional ownership cannot be substantiated.
In areas affected by development projects - including large parts of the
Middle West - Government has claimed sparsely populated land and offers title
to applicants who intend to farm the land. Problems have arisen, however,



ANNEX 3
Page 2
particularlv in the Middle West: land which was clearly underdeveloped was
re-arded as essentially vacant, and migrants from other parts of Madagascar
were given farms and offered provisional title; however, since virtually all
land is regarded as the property of village communities - which have grazi.ng
rights over large tracts of land - conflicts over land have arisen between
the new settlers and indigenous inhabitants in these areas.
J .       The Government's policy for land tenure in rural areas is to guaran-
tee the right of an individual to use land which his family has farmed con-
tinuously for a long period (10 years for formal registration). Under the
current reform of local government, greater emphasis is being placed on the
role of the fokonolona in governing land matters. The problem of formal title
-(either registered under the basic law on property rights or cadastral title
granted after a cadastral survey) to cultivated land remains significant in
the more rapidly developing areas of Madagascar. It is both an administrative
problem (overly complex procedures, and insufficient personnel to process
applications) and a policy issue, for the Government has not to date taken a
strong initiative on resolving disputes over land. Land tenure policy cannot
be disassociated from agricultural development, and there is a need for policy
decisions on the optimal size of farms for different farming systems in relation
to desired farm incomes. These considerations should guide Government policies
on land tenure. However, the land tenure issue affects this Project only
indirectly, for most of the villages in the Majunga Province affected by the
Project are concerned only with customary land rights. In the Middle West,
where problens might arise, funds are included in the Project for a cadastral
survey, which should permit the clarification of land issues affecting the
Project. The most important implication of current uncertainties surrounding
land tenure is for the development of credit programs.
6.        The question of land tenure for pasture lands raises a different
issue. The question arises whether natural pasture that is developed with
tropical legumes falls within the regime of cultivated land - and is thus
eligible for private ownership - or whether it remains, like other communal
grazing land, the property of the village community or, ultimately, of the
State. Since stylosanthes (stylo) can serve not only as improved pasture but
also as part of a cropping rotation, the issue is a complex one. The Govern-
ment indicated that when stylosanthes is developed by an individual on a small
plot of land (1 - 3 hectares) this land would be regarded as cultivated, and
the farmer would have a right to individual ownership. Larger tracts of land
developed with stylo, however, would be regarded as village grazing lands and
communal rights would prevail. While many questions remain to be resolved -
including management of pastures improved with stylo, distribution of invest-
ment costs for pasture improvement, and optimal farm size and farming systems
- this policy seems a reasonable one, for it would be counter to sensible
development and equitable income distribution to grant individual ownership
rights to large tracts of land developed at relatively low cost with stylo.
A case probably exists for regarding intensive farming on pasture (for example,
dairying) as cultivation of land, which would therefore be eligible for in-
dividual ownership. However, it is not anticipated that such farms would



ANNEX 3
Page 3
exceed 10-20 hectares. The development of pastures under the Project will be
undertaken in close cooperation with the fokonolona, which will determine
where individual ownership will be granted to farmers who develop stylo on
cultivated land.
7.        Although no serious obstacles for the Project are expected to arise
from land tenure problems, the regime of land ownership in Madagascar is
undergoing change, and che issue of property right8 should be closely iaoni-
tored during Project implementation.
April 8, 1974






ANIrN 4
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Marketing, Meat Processing, Meat Prices and Exports
Live Cattle Marketing
1.        The cattle trade in Madagascar remains a complex tradïtiorLal system,
following long established rules and patterns, and with very limited effective
control exercised by Government. For cattle that enter the commercial sector,
the basic movement is from the breeding areas of the west - the Majunga ard
Tulear Provinces - to the Central Plateau and the East Coast, where animals
are fattened, slaughtered or used as draft animals. With the exception of
limited truck transport on the roads from Majunga to Tananarive, and Tsiroano-
mandidy to Tananarive, and the railroad from Tananarive to Tamatave, most
animals move along traditional unimproved stock routes.
2.        Majunga Province is predominantly a breeding area.  The estimated
cattle population is 2.8 million, and annual production is approximately
260,000 animals; approximately two-thirds of the latter enter the commercial
sector and the remaining one-third are consumed on the farm or in villages
but do not appear in official statistics. Table 1 shows estimates of the
destination of animals that are marketed in Majunga Province.
3.        The Tsiroanomandidy sub-prefecture plays a key role in the movement
of cattle from Majunga Province, and particularly the Maintirano prefecture,
to the major consumption area of Tananarive. The market in the town of
Tsiroanomandidy is the largest cattle market in Madagascar, and between 75,000
and 90,000 cattle pass through this market a year. There are an estimated
150,000 cattle in the sub-prefecture. Between one-third and one half are
steers purchased at Tsiroanomandidy for fattening over a period from six monthe
to three years, then resold for slaughter. The remainder are breeding herds
and animals used for draft purposes.
4.        Farmers sell cattle to bush traders in the villages, or take their
animals to periodic markets. There are approximately 125 "official" markets,
run by local government in Majunga Province, which operate at weekly, fort
nightly and monthly intervals. In theory all animale sold must pass through
one of these markets. Market facilities vary from simple to non-existent.
In general the market takes place on a field near the village or town; in some
towns there are vaccination corridors, but none of these markets have scales
for weighing cattle or corrals. Animals are sold on a per head, approximate
weight basis. Volume of sales and prices fluctuate considerably from place
to place and according to season. Markets are controlled by local authorities
- either the representative of the sub-prefect (the head of canton) or an
official designated by the commune or, mare recently, the fokonolona. A tax
of 40 Fmg per steer and 25 Fmg per head for other animals i8 paid to the local
government (commune) at all markets. Market officials also inspect vaccination
certificates (all animale sold must be vaccînated) and movement permits.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        In order to cross administrative boundaries, animals must be regis-
tered on a movement permit or "passport". This document, issued by the head
of tha canton, records the place of purchase and the destination of a herd,
together with a description of all animals. The permit is issued on payment
of a fee of 150 Fmg for the herd plus 80 Fmg per animal, and must be carried
by the herdsman. The objective of this system is to control movement of
animals and to prevent traffic in stolen animals. Animals are also recorded
in a "notebook" which follows the herd, and which records all transactions
affecting that herd. When cattle are sold at the destination indicated on
the movement permit, a new permit must be issued, and a further fee paid.
6.        Intermediaries involved in the cattle trade are numerous, ranging
from small bush traders to large. processing companies, entrepreneurs, and
wealthy butchers. Some buyers operate independently, assembling a herd in
the west, for example, and trekking to Tsiroanomandidy for sale. However,
many large concerns - proce8sing plants, butchers, and the OMBY ranches, for
example - have their own network of buyers operating throughout the breeding
areas. Animals change hands many times: a recent study indicated that steers
were sold and resold four times in a single day in a single market in
Tananarive Province. Cattle buyers must be licensed by the local administra-
tion (sub-prefecture). Large buyers pay an annual fee of approximately
85,000 Fmg; "Collectors," who generally work for the buyers, pay an annual
fee of approximately 10,500 Fmg. The only other tax these dealers pay on the
cattle trade is the general income tax.
7.        Substantial though unverifiable losses (up to 50 kg per head live-
weight) occur in the movement of animals on the hoof, as often distances up
to 600 km are involved. These losses are aggravated by the lack of stockroute
watering facilities, particularly during the dry season, and by rapid move-
ment by drovers: for example, animals are often driven from the Tsiroanomandidy
market to Tananarive, a distance of 250 kilometers, in three to four days be-
cause of the timing of markets. Improvements of the Tsiroanomandidy-Tananarive
stockroute were included in the Beef Cattle Development Project, and some were
undertaken. However, when the main road between the cities was completed
these works were suspended, as it was anticipated that the importance of truck
transport would increase. Nevertheless, a substantial number of animals are
still brought to Tananarive on the hoof.
8.        There is little reliable or systematic information on cattle prices.
However, in mid-1973, the price per kilo liveweight at the village level in
the Majunga Province ranged between 60 and 70 Fmg; at Tsiroanomandidy the
range was 70 to 90 Fmg per kilo, while in Tananarive prices ranged between
100 and 120 Fmg per kilo liveweight. Marketing margins may thus be as high
as 40% of Tananarive prices. However, these figures must be viewed with
caution, since there is substantial variation in prices, and since the price
of live animals is based on eye-estimates and on bargaining between buyer and
seller.
9.        The Malagasy Government is concerned by the uncontrolled nature of
the livestock marketing system, and by the high margins between producer



ANNEX 4
Page 3
prices and final selling prices in Tananarive. Measures are now being con-
sidered that would fix the liveweight price of cattle at the producer level,
and that would reduce and better control the number of intermediaries in-
volved in cattle marketing. However, while local officials have the authority
to control prices of cattle, it would be impractical to institute such con-
trols without more elaborate market facilities, including cattle scales. The
Governor of Tananarive announced in October 1973 that the number of licensed
"Collectors" would be greatly reduced, and buyers would be subject to rigorous
controls. While it is too early to assess how effective these measures will
be, it is doubtful that administrative controls can .in themselves greatly
improve the marketing system, which appears to function in an effective man-
ner, in accordance with established traditions.  The Project inciudes funds
for feasibility studies in the area of livestock marketing. In addition,
some improved pasture and water points will be developed along stockroutes
in Majunga Province to facilitate movement of animals durîng the dry season
and to serve as a demonstration.
Meat Processing
10.       Animals are slaughtered in municipal slaughterhouses and  n pri-
vately owned slaughterhouses and processing plants. In many towns and vil-
lages there are only simple slaughtering facilities, such as a slab on the
river bank for a few animals a week. Many animals are slaughtered in the
bush with no facilities or controls.
11.       The major cities have slaughter houses administered by the municipal-
ity.  The Tananarive abattoir, although built in 1906, has adequate facili-
ties, but in other cities such as Majunga, slaughter facilities are primitive
and regulation minimal. In general, the butchers themselves slaughter animals
they have purchased on the hoof. In the municipal slaughterhouses and in
towns with a veterinary post, officials of the livestock service inspect
meat. The estimated capacity of municipal slaughterhouses is 130,000 head
per year.  Official statistics indicate that in 1972 the Livestock Department
inspected 183,801 beef carcasses at slaughter, and an additional 51,300 ani-
mals were reported slaughtered but were not inspected.  Butchers in Tananarive
pay three taxes at slaughter: a 400 Fmg slaughter tax to the municipality,
a 500 Fmg meat tax to the Central Government, and a 200 Fmg inspection fee.
These taxes vary somewhat in smaller towns, where the slaughter must be de-
clared to local authorities, whereupon a slaughter permit is issued on pay-
ment of the tax.
12.       Madagascar has exported meat to Europe since the early twentieth
century, and there are 10 slaughterhouses and processing plants that are
oriented primarily towards exports. Table 2 shows the location, capacity,
and output of these plants. Most of these concerns are foreign-owned, and
have demonstrated little dynamism in recent years. Though some of these
firms engage in share fattening, they rely predominantly on the traditional
marketing system for cattle. The largest plant, the AGM in Morondava, has
a capacity of 80,000 head per year, but for complex political and administra-
tive reasons, and because they could not ensure an adequate supply of cattle,



ANNEX 4
Page 4.
the plant has never operated. The second pltnt, SEVIMA (Societe de Viandes
Malgache) in Tananarive, with a capacity of 50,000 head, is engaged primarily
(60%) in the production of corned beef for export. Other canned meats are
produced and they also export frozen hindquarters and selected cuts.
13.       A new national abattoir is currently under construction in
Tananarive, financed by the FED, and should )e completed in 1974. It will
have a capacity of 100,000 head per year, and will replace the current muni-
cipal abattoir and the slaughterhouses attached to processing plants - notably
SEVIMA.  The Governnent also proposes to construct a slaughterhouse/export
plant in Majunga with a capacity of 60,000 head, and has requested financing
from French bilateral aid.  A fattening company that would supply the slaugh-
terhouse has already been established, with the participation of a Franco-
Italian Company and the Malagasy Government. The Project will finance
feasibility studies on meat processing that would be designed to develop an
overall national strategy in this area.
Domestic Meat Consumption
14.       Data on consumption of beef in Madagascar is unreliable and some-
what inconsistent.  Based on general estimates of offtake, estimates of per
capita consumption of beef vary between 12 and 18 kg (carcass) per head.
Assuming a national herd of 10 million animals, an offtake rate of 9%, 100,000
animals exported, average weight at slaughter 280 kilos, and a liveweight/
carcass weight ratio of about 50%, average per capita consumption of beef
would be about 16 kilos a year. Estimates by the Majunga Province Livestock
Service indicate that consumption per capita is lower in Majunga Province
than elsewhere in Madagascar, i.e. from 12-14 kg per capita. Estimates of
beef consumption per capita in Tananarive are as high as 30 kg. Official
statistics indicate that per capita beef consumption has declined in the past
decade, but it is still relatively high compared with other East African
countries. Beef consumption in urban areas is encouraged by the system of
price controls on meat.
Price Controls on Meat
15.       Retail prices of meat are fixed and controlled by local authorities.
The Prefect fixes the retail price of meat for each sub-prefecture in a regu-
lation (arrete), following the recoimmendation of the sub-prefect and a com-
mittee named by the prefect and including representatives of the butchers, the
livestock owners, and the consumers. Though the general system of price
controls is governed by national legislation, (notably laws of October 3, 1960,
and August 17, 1973), the prefect has full authority to determine price levels
for a number of goods of "primary necessity" including, in addition to beef
and pork, rice, oil, sugar, salt, and milk. He must inform, but not consult
with, the central authorities on his decisions.
16f.      The official price of beef varies significantly, with the highest
prices in Tananarive. In October 1973, "extra" quality beef with bones was



ANYzX 4
Page 5
selling in Tananarive for 260 Fmg per kilo, in Tamatave for 230 Fmg per kilo,
in Majunga at 150 Fmg per kilo, in Fort-Carnet in Fianarantsoa at 110 Fmg a
kilo, and in a small town in Tulear and in Maintirano at 100 Fmg per kilo.
The price of meat has risen significantly since 1969 despite Governnent's
efforts to limit the increase.  In lananarive, the officiai price of meat -
extra quality, with bones - was set at 185 Fmg per kilo. Durif.g 1972, how-
ever, rising pressure on prices, competition from export plants, anid a drought
on the plateau resulted in severe meat shortages lrn the capla1.  beat price
controls lapsed, and the selling price for extra quality meat with bones rose
rapidly to 260 Fmg per kilo. In November 1973, a new "arrete" was issued,
fixing the price at 230 Fmg per kilo; the Governor emphasized that this mea-
sure accompanied other measures to regulate the butcherse trade and cattle
dealers, and that new price levels would be enforced. Table 3 shows the con-
trolled price of meat of various qualities in Tananarive as of November 1973
and in Majunga.
Exports and Export Controls
17.       Exports of cattle, meat and meat products have risen rapidly in re-
cent years. In 1955, Madagascar exported 1,060 tons of chilled or frozen meat,
in 1960 3,340 tons, in 1966 4,433 tons, and in 1972 10,250 tons. The share
of cattle products in merchandise export earnings rose from 6.3% in 1961 to
11% in 1972 (see Table 4). The potential for expanding exports is consider-
able, since Madagascar, because it is free of hoof-and-mouth disease and other
diseases, has access to European and other markets. However, Madagascar's
prcospects for increasing exports are endangered by the slow growth of the
national herd, the control of domestic meat prices, and the imposition of
physical quotas on meat exports.
18.       In November 1972, Governnent set a physical quota on exports of
meat and meat products. The move came as a resuilt of rising pressure on
meat prices in the major urban centers. The quota for 1973 was set initially
at 9,500 tons. Hlowever, exceptions have been made, and exports are likely
to total 12,500 for 1973. An almost complete ban was instituted on meat
exports between the months of September and March. The quota for 1974 is
likely to be 12,500 tons. Exporters must apply for quota allocations and
export permits from the Commerce Department of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance. Quotas are allocated according to the size of the request and plant
capacity, though new criteria for allocation were introduced in 1973, favor-
ing plants that fattened animals prior to slaughter. The Customs Department
administers the system of controls.  Officials view these measures as tem-
porarv, emergencv measures desîgned to ensure an adequate supply of meat for
the domestic market, at what they view to be reasonable prices.  However,
there is no immediate prospect for discontinuing controls, and officials
affirmed that provision for domestic consumption, particularly in the large
cities, has the first priority.
19.       Madagascar exports live cattle to the islands of Mauritîus, La
Reunion and the Comores. Exports grew from 14,500 animals in 1966 to 20,000



ANNEX 4
Page 6
animals in 1970. Until 1969, export of live animals was unrestricted, at
which point regulations on minimum weight and port of embarkation were in-
stituted. In 1972, an overall quota of 12,000 animals was established, ex-
ports from all ports except Fort Dauphin prohibited, and a minimum weight of
350 kilos per head set.  The Government's objective is to reduce and eventual-
ly to phase out all exports of live cattle, since they are viewed as less
advan-tageous than exports of processed meat. Until this is accomplished, the
objective is to minimize competition between exports of live animals and of
meat.
20.       The implications of the system of price controls and export quotas
are significant for the present Project, but their influence on overall live-
stock development in Madagascar is more serious. Current policies favor the
urban consumer over the producer in rural areas, thus exacerbating dispari-
ties in income distribution. At a time when the prospects for increasing
exports to traditional markets and for developing new export markets (and
thus for earning badly needed foreign exchange) are highly favorable, the
level of exports is held constant and may even be further restricted. Since
the highest meat prices on the domestic market are currently between 35 and
40% lower than the price paid for meat that is exported, prices to producers
are considerably depressed. There is evidence that these policies have had
the effect of discouraging production.
Ap:ril 8, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Marketing in the Hajunga Province - ly72
Destination
North     East Coast       Plateau       South       Province          Total
Animals Sold to Commercial Sector for
Slaughter
Majunga Prefecture                       -          10,027        30,937           -         3,791           44,755
Antsohihy Prefecture                   6,843        16,453         1,449          -           3,547          28,292
MaintiranoPrefecture                   -             1,233        66,887-                        758         68,878
Sub Total                          6,843        27,713         99,273-                     8.096         141,925
Animals Sold to Livestock Owners  for
Fattening
Majunga Prefecture                        35         7,998         2,732            6          3,902         14,673
Antsohihy Prefecture                     308           513            21            -          1,767          2,609
Mainttiranoprefecture                     -          2,155         4,193           599         1,558          8,505
Sub Total                             343        10,666         6,946          705          7,227         25,747
Animais Sold Within Province for
Transhumance
Majunga Prefecture                        -            -               -            -            -            2,576
Antsohihy Prefecture                      -            -               -            -            -            2,093
MaintiranoPrefecture                                   -               -            -            -1,384
Sub Total                              -          _ -              -             -            -            6,073
Total Animals Sold                                -                                                                 173_785_  -  _  17
Source:  Majunga Provincial Livestock Department.                                                                            HL
l4arch 1, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Principal Slaughterhouses and Processing Plants
(Head of Cattle)
Plant                    Location
Abattoir            Throughput      Throughput      Capacity
Capacity (1973)            1971            1972           1975
SEVIMA                   Tananarive                    50,000             45,000           34,000             -
Rochefort3ise            Tulear                        40,000             26,000           28,000         40,000
Ferme d'Etat             Faaato
Vohimasima             Fianarantsoa                  20,000             17,000           12,250         20,000
SOCIETE SOFIRAC          Fianarantsoa                  25,000             15,000           23,000         25,000
Maniuco                  Diego-Suarez                  15,000               -                 -            15,000
LABORDE                   Ambohimahasoa                10,000              5,000              6,500       10,000
AGM                      Morondava                     80,000               -                 -           80,000
Municipal
Abattoir               Tananarive                    40,000             40,000           40,000             -
National
Abattoir               Tananarive                       --                                             100,000
Municipal
Abattoir               Majunga                       15,000              9,000                              -
National                 Majunga                          -                  -                -            60,000
Abattoir
Other                    Tananarive                     3,000              1,500             1,500            -
Total                                                                                     154,250         350.000
Source:  Livestock Department Statistics and Mission Eotimates
March 1, 1974



Table 3
NADACASCAR
VILLÂGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Official Neat Prices in Tananarive and Majunga (October 1973)
(Tmg/kg)
Tananarive        Majunga
Grade A
Category 1
Fillet                           450                _
Rump-Steak                        400               -
Category 2
Meat without bones               300                -
Meat with bones                  280                -
Category 3
Meat with bone                   230                -
Grade B
Fillet                           270               180
Meat without bones               260               150
Extra meat with bone             230                -
Ist - Meat with bone             215               120
2nd - Meat with bone             180               130
3rd - Meat with bone             165               120
March 1, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Exports and Importa of Cattle, Meat, and Dairy Products
Quantity                                      Value
(Tons)                                   (Million Fmg)
1969       1970       1971       1972          1969     1970     1971      1972
EXPORTS
Live Cattle 1/             19,209      20,076     18,894     12,404      300.1    324.3    399.3    312.8
Meat and Meat by-Products   3,406       5,357      8,074     10,250      663.2  1,218.9  1,951.0  3,000.6
Canned Meat                 3,510      4,016       3,583      3,804      915.0  1,137.7  1,084.5  1,228.8
Meat Extracts and Juices       13         253        518         77         9.1    163.3    358.1      61.4
Raw Hides                   3,163       2,492      2.320      1,635      275.4    277.8    284.3    275.0
Total                                                             2,162.8  3,122.0  4,017.2  4,878.6
% of Total Exports                                                    7%        8L       9%      11%
IMPORTS
Canned Milk                 5,801       7,089      7,620      5,612      648.1    867.8  1,115.6    938.9
Butter                         724        813        842        675       125.1    147.6    233.2    288.8
Cheese                        422        538         558        438      133.7    172.9    205.0    185.5
Canned Meat                   320        474         351        391      102.6   156.0    122.9    138.6
Total                                                             1,009.5  1.344.3  1,676.7  1,551.8
% of Total Imports                                                    2%        2%       2%       2%
1/  Number of Head
Source: Bulletin Mensuel de Statistique.
March 1, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exports of Meat by Destination -- 1970 - 1971
(Tons and Fmg million)
1970                                                      1971
Meat & Meat By-Froducts  Canned Meat        Extract8 and Juices  Meat & Meat Ey-Products         Canned Meat        Extracts and Juices
Quantity  Value    Quantity  Value   Quantity         Value    Quantity          Value    Quantity   Value   Quantity          Value
DESTINATION OF EXPORTS
Reunion                     1712.8      334.1   329.5      82.3       -            -         3972.5          412.2       271.4      72.6       -            -
France                      3274.7      776.4  2560.4    752.0       5.1          3.5        3797.6         1477.9      2302.9    709.3       3.2          2.5
French Somalia                22.1       11.2    -          -         -             -          22.4            11.7         -         -        -             -
Japan                         20.1        4.4    -          -      206.3        130.7          10.0             2.3         1.6      0.5   494.6         327.1
Com-re Islands                14.9        4,6     1.5       0.4       -             -          56.6           15.3          1.4      0.5       -             -
Mauritius                     12.6        3.8    -          -         -             -              -             -          1.9       0.5       -            -
New Caledonia                  8.5        1.9   155.4      36.7       -             -              -             -        116.4      30.3       -            -
French Polynesia                -          -     425.7   120.0        -             -              -             -        119.4      57.8       -            -
Germany                         -          -     368.0    87.8       10.9        10.3              -             -        319.2      88.6     1.4           2.2
Benelux Countries               -          -       14.1    10.7      30.9        18.6              -             -          -         -      18.6         26.1
Phillipines                   -          -     -          -         -             -             -              -        146.8      51.'       --
Gabon                         -          -     -          -          -            -             -              -         13.9      4.9       -             -
Australia                       -          -      -          -                       -             -             -         32.1      10.6       -            -
Italy                           -          -     -          -         -             -              -             -         20.4       6.7       -            -
Total Exports            5102.1    1143.9   3856.6  1090.8    253.3          163.3        7987.8         1925.4      3534.5   1055.6   517.9           358.0
Source:    Department of Commerce Statistics
March 1> 1974



ANNEx 4
Tablë 6
MADACt&SCAR
VILaGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVEPMNT PROJECT
Sumary cf Taxes Related to Livestock Marketing
Meat Processing and Erporta
Administration
_   Tax         _            Rate                        _        arCollecting Tax
1. Movement Permit - "Passport"        150 Fmg                                Commune/province.
+ 80 Fmg. per animal.
2. Market Tax                           40 Fmg. per steer
25 Fmg. for other animals            Commune/province
per transaction
3. Licence Fees (Patente)               85,000 for Buyer                      Commune/province
10,500 for "Collector"
65,000 for Butcher
4. Slaughter and Meat Taxes             400 Fmg. per animnal                  Commune/Province.
500 Fmg. per animal                  National Government
5. Sanitary Inspection Fee               200 Fmg. per animal                  National Government
6. Export Taxes                          7% FOB value on live cattle          National Government
.5% FOB value on meat and meat
products
7. Cattle Tax                           100 Fmg Per Headi/                    Province
8. General Tax on
Revenues                            Variable, on income of               National Government
livestock owners, buyers,
Collectors and butchers
l/ Suppressed on January 1, 1973.
March 1, 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Education and Health Services
Rural Education
1.        Until 1973, primary education in Madagascar vas provided in several
types of schools, both public and private. In the more developed areas pri-
mary schools were organized in two cycles, with a total of six classes,
terminating in a Certificate of Primary Studies.  construction and adminis-
tration of public primary schools were a provincial responsibility, and
primary school teachers were paid from the provincial budget. Schools were
normally built by the province or the commune. However, in many parts of
Madagascar, and particularly in rural areas, villagers built a simple school
themselves and requested that a teacher be assigned there. If none was avail-
able (and this was a frequent occurence), they hired a teacher themselves at
a salary of about one third the official level.
2.        In 1973 a major reform of the educational system was undertaken.
One aspect of this reform was that the national Government assumed directly
responsibility for primary education. The first objective was to standard-
ize the system, and the second to correct the marked imbalances among dif-
ferent regions of Madagascar. In future, there will be a six and eventually
five-year cycle for primary schools throughout Madagascar; there will be a
common curriculum, and all teachers will be jemployed by the Ministry of
National Education. During the present transBitional period, considerable
uncertainty exists as to how the system will be financed and administered,
and, particularly in remote rural areas, schools appeared to function largely
as in the past, except that shortages of teachers had become a more serious
problem.
3.        Detailed and accurate data on primary school facilities and enroll-
ment in the Majunga area not available. Officials indicated that there were
approximately 750 primary schools in Majunga Province with a total enrollment
of about 90,000 children; the school age population is about 210,000 thus
indicating a primary school enrollment of about 43 percent (compared with
A national estimate of 50%). Adult literacy is less than 15%, compared with
a national figure of about 40%. There are significant variations within the
province. The Maintirano prefecture is the least developed area. There are
an estimated 105 schools with 4,500 pupils; given an estimated school age
population of about 25,000, this indicates an enrollment of less than 20
percent.
4.        Primary schools in villages were generally built by villagers
themselves or by the commune. They are very simple structures, built with



ANNEX 5
Page 2
local materials, and, since few villages have even a well, the schools have
virtually no facilities. Villagers consider themselves fortunate to have a
single teacher, and a village school attract children from villages as far as
15 or 20 kilombeters away - if the children can reach the school by wading
across swollen rivers. The constraints on development of primary education
in this area are school constiuction, access to schools, and assignment of
teachers. Villagers place the highest priority on education, and following
the creation of fokantany councils, the most frequent demand has been for
schools and teachers. Villagers are prepared to assist in school construction
bv whatever means they can, but they require assistance for materials, to
ensure that school buildings conform to minimum standards, and for equipment
and materials.   Assignment of teachers is a persistent problem, since there
is a shortage of teachers throughout Madagascar. However, Goverrment has
indicated that it will place a high priority in assigning teachers to those
regions which are less developed from the educational standpoint; the
Maintirano prefecture clearly falls in this category.
5.        Under the Project, funds would be made available to FAFIFAMA to assist
village communities in constrnicting about 28 village primary schools.  FAFIFAMA
would cooperate with the Prov;:ncial Service of the Ministry of National
Education in selecting sites and in planning school facilities. Most schools
would be located in the Antsalova, Morafenobe and Besalampy sub-prefectures,
and sites would be selected to ensure that the schools would be accessible
to children from approximately 15 villages. FAFIFAMA would assist the villagers
in construction with materials, technical advice and equipment where necessary.
The fokantany would contribute nmterials available locally and labor. The
schools would be very simple, three-room structures, following local design or
simple plans provided by the Ministry of National Education. A small house for
the teacher would also be constructed since suitable housing would not be
wvailable in the villages. FAFIFAMA would provide equipment and supplies
required to set up the school - desks, blackboards, paper, notebooks, water
buckets, etc. Costs of construction would be shared between FAFIFAMA and
the fokonolona in a proportion of approximately 70 to 30%. The schools would
be administered by the Ministry of National Education, which would assign and
pay teachers. In addition to primary school classes FAFIFAMA and the fokantany
would use the schools for a variety of purposes, including training by village
livestock agents, meetings of the fokantany, and non-formal education such as
adult literacy classes. FAFIFAMA will endeavor to work with teachers in the
extension effort and will provide them with advice and materials to assist them
in orienting the curriculum towards the nee<s of the village.
6.        In addition to assisting FAFIFAMA materially in its village extension
efforts, the construction of primary schools would contribute significantly
to tlhe development of the villages. Since education is a vital preoeupation
of most villagers, the program would assist FAFIFAMA in establishing effective
communication with villagers. It would also raise the level of literacy in
villages affected, which would assist materially in Project implementation.
lu addition, by participating directly in primary education in villages, FAFIFAMA
agents would be encouraged to assist teachers in orienting school programs
towards practical training in livestock and agriculture. The program will



ANN1EX 5
Page 3
provide an opportunity for experimentation in curriculum change, primary
school agriculture education, and non-formal education.
7.        Primary education in the Tsiroanomandidy sub-prefecture is more
developed than in the Ilajunga Province, and the Project would provide only
linited assistance in this region.  Funds would be provided to permit OIBY
to build four additional schools, so that it could offer adequate primary
school facilities to villagers in the immediate vicinity of the ranches.
A£Licultural Education and Traini_
8.        The Agricultural Education Service within the Jlinistry of Rural
Development is responsible for agricultural training below the university
level. Until the present, training has been organized in three types of
institutions:  agricultural secondary schools, (college ag ricoles), agri-
cultural colleges (lycees agricoles), and agriculture training centers (cen-
tres de formation professionelle). A reform of this system is currently
underway (para 14).
9.        There are 9 agriculttiral secondary schools - eight for men and one
for women - offering a two-year program; there are an average of 60 students
per school. Students are recruited at the brevet level. One year is devoted
to general training; in the second year, students specialize in one of four
fields: agriculture, rivers and forests, rtral works, and livestock. In
1973, there were 30 graduates in the livestock field.
10.       There are 3 agricultural colleges in Madagascar - in Tananarive,
Majunga, and Tamatave. Students are selected by competive examination after
the BEPC. The course is four years-, with two years of general training and
two of specialization in four fields: agriculture, rivers and forests, rural
works, and livestock.  In 1973, 52 students graduated from the program, in-
cluding 17 livestock specialists. Training in these agricultural programs is
adequate and there are sufficient graduates for the civil service positions
in agriculture that are available.
11.       The agricultural training centers offer practical training to young
farmers and are designed to encourage them to remain in the rural areas.
There are 25 centers in Madagascar. They recruit primary school graduates
(14-16 years old), and train them for one year; during this time students
alternate between 3-week periods at the center and 3-week periods in their
college. About 1,000 students were enrolled in these centers in 1973. The
Mlinistry is currently focussing on programs that would assist graduates in
establishing farms after graduation for example by extending loans of between
50,000 - 100,000 Fmg, (repayable after 2 or 3 years) to buy seeds, fertilizer
and animals. There is a need throughout Madagascar for this type of practical
training for farmers, and at this time no such training oriented towards live-
stock is available in the project area.
12.       The ProJect would include the establishment of an Agricultural
Training Center in the Maintirano prefecture at Maintirano. This center
would offer practical training in agriculture, with an emphasis on animal



ANNEX 5
Page 4
riusbandrv. and the center would provide some assistance to students after
_rad~uation. The center would be established and administered by the
Agricultural Training Service in cooperation with FAFIFAMA.
13.       A specialized school oi- the University of Tananarive offers train-
ing in agricultural fields. The Higher National School of Agriculture
(Ecole Nationale Superieure Agronomique) trains "ingenieurs d'execution."
Students are selected after the baccalaureat and are trained for 4 years:
two in general training and two in a specialized field (agriculture, lives-
tock, water and forests and economics). Between 7 and 10 "ingenieurs d'
elevage" are produced a year. No veterinary training is available in
Madagascar and all veterinarians are trained overseas, mostly in France.
Senior agronomists also are trained overseas.
14.       A reform of secondary level agricultural training is currently
underway, and all the agriculture secondary schools have become agricultural
colleges. All colleges now offer two cycles. Students will be selected at
the BEPC level by competitive examination.  After two years of training,
students will receive a general diploma (Brevet de Technician Agricole).
At the end of this first cycle, students will be divided into three groups:
(a) further training in specialized fields, for two years, after which a dip-
loma is awarded and students would enter the civil service as Technical
Agents (Brevet de Technician Superieur Agricole); (b) Assignment to modern
farming activities with the financial and technical assistance of Government;
and (c) Direct recruitment to the civil service as technical agricultural
and veterinary extension workers.
Rural Ilealth Facilities
15.      Ilealth care available to the rural population of the Project area
is very limited. Health centers.or dispensaries with a nurse and a technical
assistant are located in larger towns, but officials estimated that less than
20 percent of the population has access even to these facilities. The poor
road network in the Majunga Province makes access to medical care for isolated
villages particularly difficult. There is one doctor for every 10,500 inhabi-
tants in the Majunga Province, but only a small proportion of the population
have access to them.   Health problems are numerous, and include widespread
bilharzia, tuberculosis, malaria and intestinal parasites and periodic epi-
demics.  Poor nutrition exacerbates these problens, and mortality among infants
and children is high, often from diseases such as measles which would take a
lower toll if nutrition were improved. Villagers are eager for better medical
care, and a frequent request by the fokantany spokesmen was for health centers
accessible to the village.
16.       The Project would finance the establishment of eight mobile health
units primarily in the Maintirano prefecture where medical facilities are
most limited. The Ministry of Social Affairs has a national program to de-
velop these units throughout Madagascar in order to encourage preventive



ANNEX 5
Page 5
health measures and to improve health care in rural areas.  A mobile health
unit would have simple office facilities and housing at a central location,
and a 4-wheel drive vehicle, and basic medical equipment and supplies. The
staff would include a nurse, a public health official and a driver/mechanic,
who would travel continuously from village to village in an area approximately
the size of a sub-prefecture. The emphasis would be on preventive medicine
especially vaccination and malaria control, but health education and public
hygiene would also be stressed; the units would, for example, test village
water supplies. The units would provide treatment wherever possible. Mobile
health units would be based in the following towns:  Kandreho, Ambatomainty,
Tanboherano, Antsalova, Soalala, Besalampy, Mitsinjo, and Maintirano. They
would contribute to the Project by improving health care in those villages
affected by the Project. They would also encourage more effective communica-
tion between Government officials and villagers, since the adequacy of health
care is a primary concern of the population. Since the project will improve
medical care for cattle, vaccinating and drenching for intestinal parasites,
the villagers would expect that a comparable service be provided for their
children who suffer from similar complaints. There have been cases in the
past when villagers gave drugs intended for calf drenching to their children,
who also had intestinal parasites.
April 8, 1974






ANNEX 6
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit - The BNM
1.        The banking svstem of Madagascar îs cornposed of the Central Bank,
four commercial banks and a development bank, the Banque Nationale Malagasy
de Developpement (BNM), which has recently absorbed the Societe Nationale
d'Investissements (SNI). The BNM îs the only one among these fînancial in-
stitutions that is involved in long-term lending. The BNM is also virtually
the only source of agricultural credit in the country.
Organization and Management
2.        The BNM is a limited liability company with a total paid-în capital
of Fmg 2 billion, held in the proportions o.r 77.5% and 22.5% respectively by
the Malagasy Government and by the CCCE (Ca:.sse Centrale de Cooper&LUon
Economique). The twelve member Board of Directors is assisted by specialîzed
loan committees. The General Manager is nominated by the Government upon
recommendation by the Board. The three operating Departments are responsible
respectively for Agricultural Credit, Industrial and Popular Credit and
Credit Administration (including accounting).
3.        In addition to its headquarters located in Tananarive, the BNM has
nine "Delegations", six "Agencies" and approximately 36 "Permanent offices"
throughout the country. The Delegates, who report directly to the General
Manager, are responsible for coordinating the activities of the Bank in the
various circumscriptions which correspond to the six Provinces and, in addi-
tion, three zones where activities justify additional representation. The
Agencies usually operate at the Prefecture level and are charged wîth the
implementation of the Bank's operating policies in the field as well as with
the administration of loans. The role of the "permanent (or periodical)
offices" is to enforce credit recovery and to promote penetration of the Bank
into rural areas.
Financial Resources
4.        To finance its operations, which involve both equity participations
and extension of credit, the BNM resorts in addition to îts own capital re-
sources and reserves, to long or short-term advances from the Malagasy Govern-
ment, long-term advances from the CCCE and medium or short-term loans from
insurance companies and other financial organizations. The BNM also has
access to rediscounting facilities from Madagascar's Issuing Institute. In
1969 the BNM succeeded in securing long-term funds amounting to about DM 10
million from the German KFW to finance a program of industrial projecta.
Contacts have been made wlth other lending agencies, but no definite arrange-
ments have ensued. Total long-term and short-term borrowings as of December 31,



ANNEX 6
Page 2
1972 vere respectively at Fmg 4.7 million and FMg 1.2 million, while redis-
conted mounts reached about Fmg 4C7 million.
5.        The BNM also administrates on behî.lf of the Government funds ear-
marked for programs of major economic or social importance. Loans extended
from such fundt  are either medium or long-term and are generally coupled with
subsidies of an equivalent amount. The "Credits Ras du Sol", which are geared
toward increasing agricultural productivity at field level, belong to this
group.
Credit Operations
6.        BNM's credit operations can be subdivided into the folloving cate-
gories:
(a) Credit to the modern agricultural sector.
<b) Small agricultural credit.
<c) Credit to public entities for basic infrastructure.
(d)  Credit for handicraft.
<e) Credit for industry and commerce.
<f)  Credit for housing.
(g) Small credit to households for consumer goods.
(h) Small credits guaranteed up to 80% of the unpaid amouat
by the Fonde National de Garantie (FONAGA) for items
similar to those mentioned under (b) and (g).
7.        Credit for agriculture representu BNM's main activity:  between
1963 (when the Bank vas established) and the end of 1972, out of a total of
245,000 loans representing Fmg 59 billion, about 159,000 lbans amounting to
Fmg 36 billion were made for agriculture. In 1972, 44,400 out of 56,600 loans
vere for agriculture; these covered 70% of total commitments of about Fmg 10
billion in that year. The second largest sector in terme of BNM's activities
is industry and commerce, which absorbed 17% of total commitments in 1972;
credits for housing and the purchase of basic consumer goode (listed under
(f) and (g)) represented the next largest share.
8.        BNM's portfolio îs heavily geared toward marketing credits, and
these represented more than 60% of total commitments in 1972. This type of
credit is extended to the modern agricultural sector, to industry and commerce
and to handicraft. The balance of credit activitieo is made of long-term,
medium-term and short-term investment loans for all the sectors listed in
para 6. Commitments for 1972 and outstanding amounts as of December 31, 1972
are broken down by category in the table below:



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Total
Invest- Marketing
Long-   Medium-  Short-    ment    (Short-
Term     Term      Term     Loans    Term)      Total
Commitments 1972
No. of Loans            603      5,388    50,452   56,443    129         56,572
Amounts (Fmg million)  498.8   1,610.2    737.8  2,846.8 6,293.2         10,140.0
Outstanding as of
Dec. 31, 1972
Amount (Fmg million) 5,481.5   2,791.4   1,446.9  9,719.8  3,155.0   12,874.8
Agricultural Credit
9.        Agricultural loans are of two types:  (a) large-scale loans granted
to the modern sector, that is to public or parastatal organizations, coopera-
tives, private societies, large individual farms and marketing boards; (b)
small-scale loans to individual small farmers or groups of small farmers.
The distribution of the various types of loans is shown below:
Total
Invest-
Long-   Medium-  Short-    ment-
Term     Term      Term     Loans  Marketing   Total
Commitments 1972
Large-scale loans
No.                     10       93       298       401     63           464
Amount (Fmg million)   117.8   337.2    530.3    985.3   5,813.9         6,799.2
Sniall-scale loans
No.                     n.a.    n.a.      n.a.      136,298    -       136,298
Amount (Fmg million)    16.0   126.5    180.7         323.2    -           323.2
Outstanding as of
Dec. 31, 1972
(Fmg million)
Large-scale loans       647.6   434.6    587.3    1,669.5 2,736.2   4,405.7
Small-scale loans        39.4   135.9      90.5       265.8      -       265.8
The table shows that marketing absorbed as much as 82% of total commitments
for agriculture in 1972.  This included substantial amounts for rice imports.
In spite of the large number of credits to small farmers, the share of the



ANNEX 6
Page 4
traditional agricultural sector in BNM's operations remains small. This
activity has been gaining increasing importance over the last few years, how-
ever, due to an improvement ir. credit recovery, and it is expected that this
momentum will be maintained.
10.       At present small-scale agricultural lending by BNM is mainly carried
out within the framework of development projects undertaken by the Government
for specific crops and in specif3c areas where strong supporting services
exist and, where possible, credit recovery can be ensured by marketing arrange-
ments and joint liability on farmer groups. Administrative costs for this
type of credit are still very high and budget allocations are usually made to
reduce BINI's financial burden.
11.       A certain share of the credits guaranteed by the FONAGA (para 6
(h)) goes to small farmers, mainly for building and land improvement, as well
as for acquisition of equipment and livestock. Total commitments under this
type of arrangement amounted to Fmg 24.6 million in 1972. Another type of
lending activity which has some bearing on rural development is credit to
public collectivities (para 6 (c)) for the financing of public infrastructure
such as water supply, electrification and road improvement.
12.       As stressed earlier, the BNI carrLes out operations on behalf of
(overnment the most imnortant of which are "credits ras du sol" (loans at
field level). The funds provided by the Governmient are granted to communes,
syndicates of communes and cooperatives on the basis of programs submitted by
their representatives and approved by the "Comite Technique Regional du Plan
et du Developpement" (CTRPD). The type of operations financed under this
arrangement consist mainly of water points, vaccination yards, buildings,
agricultural equipment and fertilizers. In,1972 sixty two of these credits
were extended for a total amount of Fmg 21.3 million - an indication of the
still very small scale of this program.
Credit for Animal Production
13.       Credit for animal production has been quite limited in the past,
but now seems to be gaining in importance. In 1972 commitments for this sec-
tor amounted to Fmg 303.3 million, or 4% of total agricultural loan commit-
ments. Of this, 167.0 million were in the form of short-term loans for cat-
tle marketing, and only Fmg 86.6 million were extended to small farmers for invest-
ment purposes (purclhase of animals, piggeries and barn construction). A de-
tailed breakdown of loans for animal production is given below:



`ANNEX 6
Page 5
Medium or Short-       Marketing Loans            Total
Term Loans
Number    Amount       Number   Amount       Number   Amount
(Fmg million)          (Fmg million)        (Fmg million)
Cattle
large scale       3        12.2           5      162.9          8      175.1
samall scale    n.a.       80.1           -        -         n.a.       80.1
Pigs
large scale     103        34.7           1        4.1        104       38.8
small scale     n.a.        6.5           -        -          n.a.       6.5
Poultry
large scale      10         2.7           -        -           10        2.7
small scale       -          -            -        -            -
Total                       136.2                  167.0                 303.2
The table shows that investment oredits for pig production are usually ex-
tended to the modern sector, while financing of cattle production takes place
mainly in the traditional sector.  In both cases, the amounts involved are
limited if not negligible on the national scale. This is mainly due to un-
certainties surrounding land tenure, the lack of cash reserves of the poten-
tial borrowers, and the complexity of applying mortgages for cattle and
equipment.
14.       The terms and conditions of BNM's loans for agriculture are detailed
below:
Short-term   Medium-Term   Long-Term
(1 year)    (2-5 years)   (up to 10
years)
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- %- -- -_____
Small individual loans                       8               6          4
Simall collective loans                      8               4          3
Loans to large scale faram and
State organizations (fattening)          7.5 - 8.75          -          -
Marketing loans                             7.5             7M5        7.5
Public loans                                 -            5.5-6.75   5.5-6.75
Operations "Ras du sol"
for which BNM receives 1.5% p.a.                             5          3
To the above interest rates, a commitment fee of 1/2% and a commission charge
of 1/2% to 2% should be added. For a given category of loan, the lending
rate depends on the terms of that loan.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Regional Distribution of Agricultural Credit
15.       The representation of the BNM varies greatly from one Province to
another. The Provinces of Tananarive and Diego-Suarez have traditionally
been the main recipients of agricultural loans from the BNM with shares in
annual commitments of about 16% and 20% respectively. The shares of the
Tulear and Majunga Provinces have increased regularly over the years to reach
respectively 21% and 20% of total conmmitments in 1972. In the case of Tulear,
this was due to a large increase in the financing of tobacco operations,
while the provision of credit by cotton spray was responsible for the
expansion observed in Majunga Province. The Provinces of Fianarantsoa and
Tananarive together received 93% of the 44,000 small-scale agricultural
credits committed in 1972.  The Province of Majunga, on the other hand, re-
ceived only 5 of these credits. Permanent offices are numerous in Tananarive
and Fianarantsoa Provinces, but are virtually non-existent elsewhere.
Financial Performance
16.       BNM's main asset is its loan portfolio, which amounted to Fmg 15.7
billion as of December 31, 1972. Of this about Fmg 1.3 billion were overdue,
but these were almost entirely covered by a provision for bad and doubtful
debts of Fmg 1.2 billion. BNM is making efforts to recover these overdues.
Current assets, excluding overdues, exceeded liabilities by about Fmg 400
million in 1972, while the medium and long-term debt/equity ratio was about
3/1, implying a satisfactory treasury position. Administrative expenditures
and financial charges represented respectively 1.3% and 2.8% of total assets,
while interest and commission represented an average of 5.7%. After allocat-
ing Fmg 275.3 million for reserves, BNM showed a slight los of Fmg 3 million
in 1972. Taking into account exceptional profits and losses, net profit was
about Fmg 13 million. On the whole, BNM can be considered a well managed and
financially viable institution.
April 8, 1974



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Structure and Livestock Development
1.        Madagascar has a diverse ethnic structure, the consequence of
successive waves of migration to the island between the eleventh and
sixteenth centuries, from Indonesia, the African Continent, and the Middle
East and India. Though there are 12 principal ethnie groups, each with
their own history, dialect and customs, Madagascar has a common language -
Malagasy, and the social structure does not differ fundamentally among the
different ethnic groups. The conquest of all Madagascar by the Merina
tribe of the Righ Plateau in the nineteenth century and 70 years of French
colonial rule have resulted in a relatively unified nation, despite the
low level of development of many regions and poor communications throughout
the island. About 85 percent of the population of Madagascar lives in rural
areas, most in villages of less than 500 people. Rural-to-rural migration
is an important force in Madagascar, and in-migration is particularly
significant in the Project area.
2.        Rural villages form the basis of this Project, since all Project
activities are designed to assist village producers within the framework
of village society. The fokonolona, the traditional village group, is the
dominant social organization in Malagasy society, and particularly before
the introduction of colonial rule, it was a poverful force on social and
economie issues. Village elders are the leaders of fokonolona, and they
resolve social disputes and represent the village in its dealings with the
exterrial world. Within the village, the extended family is an important
unit, and Madagascar is remarkable for the attachment of the population
family ties and to the place where the tombe of their ancestors are located.
3.        The Majunga Province (see map) is a very underdeveloped region of
Madagascar, and contact with other regions of the country is hampered by poor
communications, particularly in the Southern part of the Province. More
than 90 percent of the population of about one million is rural. There are
about 5,000 villages in the province, with an average of 200 people each;
average family size is estimated at five, through larger groups not closely
related tend to view themeelves as a family unit. The indigenous ethnie
groups are the Sakalava, a proud people who formerly ruled most of the West
of Madagascar, and in the north the Betgileo. Currently, however, the
ethnic composition is diverse, particularly in the Majunga and Maintirano
prefectures where migrants from other regions of Madagascar have settled.
The village economy throughout the province is based on subsistence agri-
culture with livestock and crops, primarily rice and manioc. Although the



ANNEX 7
Page 2
soeicty was formerly semi-nomadic, villages are relatively stable in most
of the province, with occasional seasonal movements to croplands or to
areas with adequate water. In some parts of the Majunga Province, a conflict
is emerging, generally within villages, over use of Valley bottoms. As
migrants settle, they develop the bottonilands for paddy; cattle must water
during the dry season, however, and often trample the crops. The dispute
is usually resolved by payment of a fee to the farmer by the cattleman. In
some villages, the elders have limited the periods when crops may be grown
-xpress'y to limit this type of conflict, but as the region develops, either
more careful regulation of valley land or water development on upland pasture
wlli be .çquireù.
4.        The Middle West Zone is a complex region from an economic and
social standpoint (Annex 10, para. 4); the Merina tribe native to the Plateau
are dominant, but migrants from many other regions of Madagascar have settled
there within the past 20 years. Villages tend to be more mixed in terms of
ethnic groups than in the West, and many are of recent origin. The economy
is more diversified than in the West, with an increasing emphasis on cash
crops and on pig and poultry production in addition to cattle.
5.        Cattle rearing is the traditional livelihood of a number of
Malagasy ethnic groups, including the Sakalava. Villagers generally own cattle
individually (or by family), and graze them on communal pastures controlled
by the village. Village livestock producers face two serious problems, in
addition to disease:  theft, which is common in many parts of Madagascar, where
it is often regarded as a sport or a proof of manhood; and bush fires. Vill-
agers believe they must burn pasture at the end of the dry season if there is
to be rapid new growth of grass when the rains come, and they also view fire
as a purifying agent, cutting down on disease. There are bush fires throughout
Madagascar, usually set delibetately by villagers, but which often rage out
of control. A high proportion of natural pasture burns each year despite
repeated campaigns against it and stringent controls and penalties imposed
by Government. The Government recognizes the adverse effect of these fires,
which reduce soil fertility and foster serious soil erosion, and there is an
active campaign against fire by the Ministry of Interior. However, fires
can be controlled or prevented only through education of villagers on the
adverse consequences of fire and by improving the quality of fodder at critical
periods. Cattle form part of the rituals of several ethnic groupa, and
particularly in the south, large numbers of cattle are slaughtered when a
rich man dies.  However, these practices are less common now, and though one
or more animals may be slaughtered for a village funeral or memorial to
ancestors, cattle are more frequently sold to pay taxes or achool fees for
children. In many areas, cattle are the only source of cash income, since
they are the only produce villagers can transport to market. Villagers tend
to sell cattle when they need money, and when they have extra money, to buy
additional animals; the herd thus serves as a kind of bank. Herd size varies
considerably: some individuals own more than one thousand while others have
none.- Average herd size in the Majunga Province is fourteen animals per



ANNEX 7
Page 3
family.  Cattle also serve as draft animals, trampling paddy fields, or
pulling an ox-plow. In the Middle West Zone, herd size is smaller (about
half that of the Majunga Province), and villagers also have herds of uteers
for fattening that are kept separately from breeding herds.
6.        The appraisal mission visited about 35 villages in the Project
area, and met with groups of livestock owners în the large towns. These
interviews cannot, of course, be viewed as a systematic sample of all
villages, but it does represent a cross-section of villages in different
parts of the Project area. Villagers were almost universally receptive
to the idea of assistance for livestock. Their problems are legion: all
villages had virtually no facilities - no well, race, press, market, store,
etc. Animal husbandry followed time-honored tradition with virtually no
fixed investment and cultivation is by hand or ox-plow with manure the only
fertilizer. Few villages had access to schools, and contact with government
was limited to the local authorities (head of canton), the police and the
Livestock Department's vaccinator who vîsits the village at most once a
year.
7.        The villagers asserted that the most serîous problens for livestock
development were cattle theft, restrictions on burning of pasture, disease
among calves and adult animals, and poor roads. Theft, on a samall scale,
is a problem throughout the Project area. Often it appeared that it reflected
inter-village feuds and small scale rustling; however, large-scale organized
rustling also occurs, and villagers demanded protection. Villagers also
complained that restrictions on burning of pasture posed serious problems.
Without fires, new growth of grass comes late in the wet season, and dry pas-
ture fosters disease in animals. Calf mortality is high, and mortality among
adult animals also is a problem. The villages visited (which were relatively
accessible) saw a representative of the Livestock Service no more than once
a year, and received no service other than vaccination for Anthrax and
Blackleg. They were eager to drench calves, to vaccinate all animals, and
to listen to advice on animal husbandry practices. Villagers asked that
roads be improved: most are cut off from communication with the rest of
the Province for 6-8 months a year, which prevents them from marketing crops
and curtails contacts with extension workers. None in the Majunga Province
had seen stylo, but they indicated that they would welcome a demonstration.
If it worked they would adopt it. Almost all villages expressed a desire
for water development, either a well for the village, or water for cattle.
Their first priority in most instances was assistance for building schools,
assignment of a teacher to the village and better health care. All villages
had crops - perhaps 1/2 - 1 ha per family, and grew rice in valley bottoms,
and manioc and potatoes in upland areas. In the area around Majunga City,
interest in cultivation was strong; in the southern part of the Project area,
while villagers were eager for assistance with cropping, livestock is clearly
the mainstay of the village economy.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
d.         {ission members also visited seven villages surrounding the OMBY state
ranches.  All villages were formally on ranch land; they had all been there
for 50-60 years. though population had expanded in recent years. All had had
conflicts with the ranches over grazing land and cropland. In all cases,
outstanding disputes with the ranches had been resolved or were on the point
of resolution, and relations with ranch personnel were cordial. The
villagers, however, expected assistance from the ranches in many areas.
Their primary concerns were schools and health care, assistance with
cropping (tractors, seeds and fertilizer), and veterinary service. The
villagers owned cattle: all had animals for draft, and most villages
had small breeding herds. Scavenger pigs and chickens were also numerous.
In the past, they did share fattening (dabokandrou), but the coming of OMBY
generally put an end to it, since they had less pasture, and the expatriate
farmer who had provided them with steers had been expropriated by the
ranches. While they were anxious for verterinary services (for cattle, pigs
and chickens), and for share fattening, their first priority was to extend
cropping. For this they require tractors, seed and fertilizer. Land for
cropping is abundant and available, and returne are high. They indicated that
since OMBY is a State Ranching Authority only a few kilometers away, they had
an obligation to assist villagers in all these areas. Villagers also requested
assistance in improving roads, building schools and health centers (many
have to walk 25-30 kilometers to the nearest center). They also urged further
mutual assistance pacts with the ranches to protect cattle against theft:
one traditional pact is known as "tsitsika" whereby a steer is strangled by
a rope with the two contending parties on either end: the act binds both
parties to protect each other's herds and to take all possible measures to
prevent theft; the ranches have already entered into such pacts with some
neighboring villages. In conclusion, the villagers surrounding OMBY have
high expectations from the ranches, in terms of cooperation and assistance.
They have received virtually no assistance in the past from any government
agency, with the exception of veterinary services from ODEMO, and they
are receptive to extension efforts in a wide range of activities, notably
in cropping and livestock.
9.        FAFIFAMA will work directly with village communities in implementing
the Project. Village livestock agents will work with the fokonolona in
organizing vaccination and drenching, and in preparing and implementing
pasture improvement demonstration, water development and school construction.
Village livestock agents vill often be recruited from the villages to be
served, and since they will live in the villages, they will maintain close
contacts with villagers. The village livestock agents will assist villagers
ir other aspects of livestock and cropping wherever possible. In the
bMiddle West, OMBY will organize its extension and share fattening programs
through the fokonolona, and ODEMO also vill through the fokonolona in
participating villages.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wlater Points Construction and Maintenance Program
Introduction
1.        In spite of high annual precipitations, ranging on average from
1,200 m to 1,300 m, the availability of water for human and animal consump-
tion is often a problem in Majunga Province. Rains are concentrated over a
period of about 5 months, and the intense drought which follows can, within
a few weeks, reduce ponds, small rivers and superficial wells to complete dry-
ness in a number of areas. The issue is further complicated when access to
tlie major streams is limited by the presence of cultivated land in the val-
leys. This aspect is gaining increasing importance as more and more settlers
establish themselves in the region and cultivate thie best land available.
The need for increased rice production on a national basis will probably also
add to the pressure on valley bottom land in the future, thus exacerbating the
difficulties cattle Droducers encounter in watering their animals. i/
2.        For these reasons, requests from villages and cattle owners for
imDroved water supply are becoming more and more nlmerous. In particular,
cattle owners seem to have an increasing interest in the establishment of
water points on the slopes. The most recent survev has indicated that, out
of the 3,000 villages identified in Majunga Province, about 1,000 have a water
problem and would tlherefore be interested in a collective water supply system.
This survey was based on only piecemeal information, however, and further in-
vestigation would be needed on existing water points, actual additional needs,
and the optimum density and location of the network as related to cattle move-
ments.
lWater Resources in the Majunga Province
3.        The Province is crossed by seven main rivers running in the north-
westerly direction, tiue muain river basin being that of the Betsiboka which
lias its estuary near Majunga. The hydrographic network is very dense in the
southeast and water courses in that area rarely dry out completely. On a number
of geological formations, especially those consisting of clay and marl, nat-
ural ponds persist well into the dry season. Although the possibilities for
the establishment of artificial water ponds are quite significant, groundwater
appears to be, on the whole, the most reliable source of water supply in the
Province.
1/ Average consumption per head of cattle is estimated at about 30 liters
per day.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        The Majunga Province can be subdivided into three main hydrogeological
zones. enumerated here in order of ir.creasing distance from the coast:
(a) shallow water-table zones made of outcrops of pervious
layers such as sandstone, limestone, sand dunes and
alluvium. The water table can be reached by hand-dug
wells at a depth varying between 5 and 20 meters;
(b) two clay and marly strips where water points can only
consist of artificial ponds or deep boreholes of
100 to 150 m:
(c)  the limestone or volcanic plateau where topographic
and hydrogeological conditions require deep bore-
holes. Water yields vary greatly from one formation
to another, as well as within a given formation.
In river bed alluvial soils and sandstone formations - where most of the
Project's wells would be located - yields of 10 to 12 cu. m. per hour are
common and, under artesian conditions, can reach up to 50 cu. m. per hour.
Development of _ater Resources
5.        The analysis of water conditions in the Province demonstrates that
a rational exploitation of water resources for human and animal consumption
would involve a blend of three types of water points: hand-dug wells on
alluvial soils and superficial sandstone formations; deep boreholes in sand-
stone with low water tables and in limestone formations; surface ponds in
clays and marls. Actually, ponds could be established on a broader scale,
in accordance with topographical and geological conditions. It was estimated
that an average depth of 15 meters for shallow wells and 35 meters for bore-
holes would meet the requirements in most of the places where a water shortage
has been identified and where the establishment of ponds is not possible.
The Project would establish about 100 water ponds, 50 shallow wells, and 150
boreholes.
6.        Water ponds, would be established at the head of small water basins
so as to avoid the damage caused by large floods and to limit to a minimum
the size of the costly lateral spillway. The location of water points to be
constrtucted by the Project is not known with any great precision at this
stagce and it would be the responsibility of the FAFIFAMA to carry out the
incessary investigations and make the final decision on this matter. It is
estimated that, on average, each of the 100 ponds would store from 4,500 to
6,500 cu. m. at a unit cost of about Fmg 860,500 (US$4,000).
7.        Shallow wells would be constructed mainly on alluvial soils and on
sandstone formations where the water table is near the surface. The average
depth would be about 15 m, and the wells would be dug by hand. Each well
would cost about USS3,200. They would be lined (reinforced concrete pipes),



ANNEX 8
Page 3
provided with filters and finished with a concrete base plate.  Small wind-
mille coupled with tanks would be used on approximately half the shallow velle
and hand pumps on the other half. In all cases, however, a pulley and sup-
porting structure would be installed as an emergency standby (Annex 12, Table
11).
8.        Boreholes would be constructed where topographical and hydrogeologi-
cal conditions make it necessary to bore 30 to 40 m for a satisfactory water
supply. The bore diameter would be about 15 cms and each would be lined
with a steel tube. It is expected that a hand-pump and trough would be used
on about 45 artesian boreholes, a medium size windmill and 20 cu.m. tanks on
about 90 boreholes and a large vindmill and 60 cu. m. tanks on the remaining
15 boreholes. The average cost cf a deep well is estimated at about US$8,900
(Annex 12, Table 12).
9.        Provision is made in the Project for the salary of a hydrogeologist
over a period of 4 years and also for expenditures on exploratory drilling
and topographic work. Subject to these studies, the above composition of the
water network to be developed in the area may well have to be revised. In
every case, the actual co0t of digging a well or a borehole will have to be
compared to that of establishing a vater pond which would perform the saxe
type of function.
10.       Great flexibility should be maintained with regard to the water
extraction systems for wells and boreholes. Although the exclusive use of
windmills had been originally recommended, provision should also be made for
other more simple types of installations sueh as hand pumps and pulleys.
Average wind velocity decreases from the coist to the interior and a number
of valleys, such as those around Ambato-Boeni and Morafenobe, are virtually
protected. Also, past experience with windmills has been quite disappointing
on the whole - mainly for lack of maintenance - and great caution should be
exercised when planning the new systems. Annex 12, Tables 11 and 12 give
the details of the recommended allocation of water extraction systems:  about
3 out of 4 of the total number of wells and boreholes will be equipped with
windmills of varying gizes. Whenever possible, an auxiliary system involving
a pulley or even a hand pump will be provided.
Execution of the Water Point Construction Program
il.       Execution of the construction program will be initiated once the
necessary preliminary investigations have been carried out. A possible con-
struction schedule is suggested below:
Y1     Y2      Y3       Y4           Total
Ponds           25     25       25      25            100
Wells            5     15       15      15             50
Boreholes        -     50       50      50            150
Total Water
Points        30     90       90      90            300



ANNEX 8
Page 4
It is expected that about two thirds of the water points would be established
within the seven sub-prefectures selected for the intensification of veterin-
ary and extension services under the Project.
12.       Pond construction will be carried out by the FAFIFAMA with the
assistance of the Ministry of Rural Development. Provision has been made in
the Project for earth moving and related equipment (see Annex 12, Table 10)
which would be owned and operated by FAFIFAMA. Two pond construction teams
would be set up; it is estimated that each of them could build an average of
12 to 13 ponds per season at the rate of about one pond every 14 days. Each
pond woiild be fenced and equipped with appropriate water troughs and piping.
The well construction program would be carried out by the Ministry of Rural
Development (Genie Rural) on force account under the supervision of the Project
Hydrogeologist. This would include the installation of the necessary pumping
and storage facilities, as described in Annex 12, Table 11. In the case of
boreholes, private contractors would be approached and contracts for drilling
and for the erection of the related superstructures (Annex 12, Table 12) would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. Use would be made of
local labor and participation of Fokolonas would be encouraged. Total con-
struction costs are estimated at about Fmg 430 million (US$2 million).
:4ain«,,enance of Water Points
13.       Maintenance of water points would be the responsibility of FAFIFAMA.
One maintenance team equipped with a four-wheel drive vehicle would be in
charge of pond maintenance and it is expected that one pond could be covered
every two days. Three iuaintenance teams would be set up for wells and bore-
holes, phased over the last three years of the Project. Cost calculations
have been based on the assumption that the maintenance of a well and a bore-
hole would take one day and three days respectively. Each water point would
be visited at least once a year and provision has also been made in the Project
for spare parts and routine maintenance.
14.       Good maintenance is the key to the success of the water points pro-
gram and the availability of adequate funds for this purpose should be ascer-
tained at the beginning of every season. Annex 12, Table 13 gives the details
of annual maintenance expenditures for each type of facility; it is estimated
that, at full development, total annual maintenance costs on the 300 water
points will be about Fmg 12 million. It is expected that maintenance costs
would be recovered from the beneficiaries, mainly through the channel of the
Fokono L-onas. Annual maintenance costs have been estimated at Fmg 25,000
(US$120), Fmg 27,000 (US$125) and Fmg 56,800 (US$265) respectively for ponds,
wells and boreholes and it would be the responsibility of FAFIFAMA's extension
agents to approach the farmers on a village group basis to recover these
funds. A summary of the various types of arrangements for the execution of
the water points program is given in the attached Appendix.



ANNEX 8
Appendix A
Page i
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation of Water Points Program
A. Directly by FAFIFAMA
Functions Performed
Pond construction
Pond maintenance (partly)
Well/borehole maintenance
Personnel
Water engineer/hydrogeologist
Technical assistant
Pond construction teams:
2 Foremen
6 Heavy equipment drivers
2 4 WD drivers
2 mechanics
20 temporary labor
Well/borehole maintenance teams (ai: full development):
3 water maintenance technicians
3 mechanics (qualified workers)
9 temporary labor
Pond maintenance team
1 pond maintenance technician
1 driver
Equipment
Pond construction teams:
2 bulldozers
2 earth scoops
2 earth trampers
2 tractors wïth low loaders
2 4WD vehicles
Well/borehole maintenance teams:
3 4 WD vehicles
3 recharge pumps
3 tool boxes
spare parts
Pond maintenance teams
2 4 WD vehicles



ANNEX 8
Appendix A
Page 2
Exploratory drilling and topographic work:
meteorologic equipment
topographic equipment
prospection equipment
2 4WD vehicles: used later on by maintenance teams
2 4WD vehicles for Hydrogeologist and Assistant
Shed and mechanical equipment.
B.  Force Account (Genie Rural or Ministry Df Public Works and Mines)
FAFIFAMA provides budget for:
Exploratory drilling of 2,500 m
Well drilling and equipment
Transformation of exploratory drilling into boreholes.
C. Private Contractors
FAFIFAMA provides funds for:
Borehole drilling
Installation of windmills and handpumps on boreholes
Installation of reservoirs and throughs on boreholes
Remaining portion of pond maintenance (see A).



ANNEX 9
Page 1
MAD»GASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Road Improvement Program în Maiunga Province
Introduction
1.        The economic development of Majunga Province is greatly haipered by
the lack of an adequate road system. A difficult topography coupled with the
existence of a relatively dense hydrographic network makes road construction
and maintenance especially troublesome and costly. All-weather roads repre-
sent only a minor proportion of total existing roads and inadequate main-
tenance of secondary and tertiary roads makes travel difficult even during
the dry season. There are about 5,600 km of roads in Majunga Province, repre-
senting 17% of the country's total roads network. Of these 5,600 km, 765 km
are asphalted, 1,530 km are earthroads maintained on a yearly basis (secondary
roads) and 3,340 km represent earthroads with lîmited or no maintenance at
all (tertiary roads).
2.        The opening and improvement of roads is given a high priority within
the region. The improvement of the transportation system vould have several
major benefits. It would facilitate access to isolated areas and villages,
and the marketing of agricultural products, encourage settlement of under-
exploited areas and, more generally, help boost production in the Province.
It would also greatly facilitate the penetration of veterinary and extension
services, permit faster and more efficient commercialization of livestock
production and ease the access of heavy equipment to the sites selected for
the establishment of water points.
Identification of Priority Zones
3.        Two sub-regions in the Majunga Province were identified as deserv-
ing first priority for the development cf livestock. These are centered
around the Majunga-Maevatanana and the Majunga-Port Berge axes on the one
hand, and around the Tsiroanomandidy-Morafenobe-Maintirano axis on the other.
The Project would therefore concentrate on these two areas and give priority
to the improvement of the transportation network there. In the Majunga-
Port Berge-Maevatanana area, where the main trunk roads are generally ade-
quate, the opening of access roads to isolated villages would be feasible
almost immediately at relatively low cost. In the second zone, the improve-
ment of the main axis linking Tsiroanomandidy to Morafenobe and Maintirano
would be a precondition to the opening of new access roads or the improvement
of existing ones. In effect, this link is, in its present condition, grossly
inadequate to carry the traffic which the development of the sub-region
would iequire. Other important links in that area which also deserve due
attention in the context of livestock development are the Maintirano-Antsalova
and the Morafenobe-Ambatomainty axes.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Administration and Financing of Secondary and Tertiary Roads in the Majunga
Province
4.        The Department of Public Works has been mainly responsible for the
construction and maintenance of primary as well as some secondary roade in
the past and the recent administrative reorganization has added responsibility
for the overall secondary and tertiary road network. At present, Governament
priorities for road developmerlt in Majunga Province are not clearly defined,
but it seems likely that - in view of the limited means currently at the
disposal of the Ministry of Public Works for Majunga Province - little
improvement on the secondary and tertiary networks can be expected in the
foreseeable future. The section appears generally understaffed and under-
equipped to carry out a broad anc effective road improvement program vithin
the area placed under its jurisdlction.
5.        Total budget allocation for secondary and tertiary roads in the
Province was about Fmg 230 million in 1973. This included Fmg 76 million for
maintenance, leaving a balance of Fmg 154 million for the opening of new
roads and the upgrading of existing ones. Of these Fmg 154 million, Fmg 56
million was earmarked for the improvement of the Maintirano-Morafenobe-
Tsiroanomandidy road, and additional funds will be made available for the
same purpose in 1974. Some doubts exist, however, whether these funds vill
be sufficient to improve difficult sections to a point where this road could
be passable by all types of vehicles even during the dry season.
6.        It should be noted that, if the entire 1,530 km of existing secondary
roads were regularly maintained, fund requi:ements for this purpose would be
as much as Fmg 130 million annually (at Fmg 85,000 per km, the least expen-
sive maintenance carried out by the Department of Public Works). As more
upgrading of tertiary roads takes place, more maintenance funds will be
necessary to keep up with the new standard. In brief, budget resources allo-
cated to the secondary and tertiary road networks are likely to fall short of
requirement8 in the future. Governwent should therefore be requested to give
special consideration to the elaboration of a road development program for
the Province.
Scope of Project Road Component
7.        Provision has been made under the Project for the following items:
(a) equipment and spare parts for a secondary/tertiary
road betterment and construction unit capable of
upgrading or constructing about 42 km of roads per
year;
(b) equipment and spare-parts for a secondary/tertiary
road maintenance unit capable of maintaining 280
km of roads per year;



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(c) workshops equipment; and
(d) funds for the operation of the two units (operating
costs and salaries).
These provisions are necessary tu improve workshop repairs and to supplement
existing road maintenance facilities. It is expected.that the Project would
improve or build 170 km of roads, as well as maintain about 280 km annually.
8.        The roads would be designed to provide good access to isolated vil-
lages and farming areas during the dry season and minimum access during the
wet season. They should be passable by trucks of up to 10 tons for cattle
transport and crop extraction during the dry season and by four-wheel drive
vehicles for veterinary and extension agents in all but the wettest condi-
tions. To achieve this, and ln view of the large emphasis placed on annual
maintenance, construction to a minimum dry-weather standard would be suffi-
cient. Average width would be about 4 meters. In most instances, this would
imply a bulldozed or graded track following the ground. profile and slightly
elevated in the center, accompanied by good drainage ditches on both sides.
At the intersection of river beds, small bridges, concrete aprons and culverts
would be repaired or constructed. Steep slopes would be reduced (to a maximum
gradient of approximately 14%) and rocky passages smoothed where necessary.
It is anticipated that only limited fill material will be required and that
all basic work can be accomplished by bulldozers or motor-graders and hand
labor.
9.        Annex 12, Tables 15 to 17 show the detailed cost estimates of both
the maintenance and the betterment/construction units. Equipment has been
allocated between the two units in a way which seems to best fulfill their
respective requirements, but sufficient flexibility would be maintained to
achieve an optimal combination of equipment under varying circumstances. It
is estimated that, with the foregoing equipment and an appropriate labor force
(Annex 12, Table 17), maintenance would be carried out at a unit cost of
about US$300/km/year, while upgrading and construction would be executed at
an average cost of US$5,000/km. Unit costs would obviously vary from one
section to another, and would be highest at the major bottlenecks which us-
ually occur at river crossings.
Execution
10.       FAFIFAMA would participate in the preparation of the provincial
road betterment and maintenance program. The Department of Public Works
and FAFIFAMA would, at the beginning of every work season, jointly establish
a yearly program for the opening, betterment and maintenance of secondary and
tertiary roads in the Province. The equipment financed under the Project
would be owned by the Department of Public Works, but an agreement would be
reached between the two Agencies whereby such equipment would be given priority
for tlhe joint program.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
11.       Each year FAFIFAMA would place at the disposition of the Department
of Public Works the funds necessary to cover the expenses to be incurred by
tlhe latter in the implementation of the joint roads program. These funds
would cover fuel and repair costs of the equipment, cost of materials, sala-
ries of the teams to be seconded to the program and related overheads. It is
particularly important that adequate financial provisions be made for fuel
and spare parts as lack of these could seriously delay implementation of the
roads program. Annex 12, Table 16 gives a list of the type of manpower which
the Department of Public Works would have to make available for implementing
the joint road program. The provision of qualified mechanics should receive
particular attention.
12.       A representative of the Ministry of Public Works would sit on FAFIFAMA's
Board of Directors, and a roads expert from the same Ministry would be sec-
onded to the Management of FAFIFAMA for a period of four years. It is expected
that these arrangements would provide the coordination and flexibility
necessary for the effective elaboration and implementation of the roads
program. Beside ensuring that expenditures on infrastructure are geared
toward the balanced economic development of the Province, the arrangements
would also strengthen FAFIFAMA's base as a regional development Institution.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Beef Cattle Development Project (Loan 585-MAG)
Background
1.        Madagascar has a strong tradition of cattle husbandry, and in
1965, the national herd numbered over 9 million animals. Virtually all
cattle were owned and raised by village producers, and cattle were inti-
mately tied to the social system of various ethnic groups. The prevail-
ing belief was that cattle were reared primarily to enhance prestige, and
to serve in rituals surrounding death and memorials to ancestors. Hovever,
since the early twentieth century, under French colonial rule, large private
companies established processing plants for export, and most had continued
to function after independence. With the growth of urban centers, the
demand for meat for domestic consumption also increased and the number of
cattle marketed in the "modern", urban sector grew. Madagascar was for
many years a principal supplier of meat to the French Army and other export
markets included the Indian Ocean Islands o:' La Reunion and Mauritius.
Despite the expansion of the cattle industry, all animals still came from
traditional village producers and beef production by the "modern" sector
was limited to fattening, usually undertaken on a contractual basis with
village producers in various forms-of share fattening.  Since the late
1950's, however, livestock production had flagged. New diseases, notably
Anthrax and Blackleg and liverfluke, took a heavy toll of the national
herd and statistics indicated that the numbar of animals marketed declined.
Two major processing plants closed down, and the general outlook for the
livestock industry was pessimistic.
2.        The independent Malagasy Government placed a high priority on
livestock development in successive Development Plans. The strategy for
the livestock sector in 1966 can be summarized as follows: (a) establishment
of national and regional authorities to coordinate livestock development;
(b) establishment and strengthening of field extension services; (c)
improvement of the marketing systein; (d) encouragement of settlement
schemes oriented to beef production and dairying, particularly in the
Middle West Zone; (e) development of a credit scheme for livestock producers
through the BNM (Malagasy National Development Bank); (f) establishment of
a series of ranches in the Middle West designed to utilize poorly grazed
land, increase herd productivity, and otherwise act as a stimulant to the
cattle industry; and (g) construction of modern slaughter-houses and export
plants. A number of bilateral and multinational aid agencies were exploring
possibilities for livestock development at this time. Notably, the FED was
considering in 1965 a major project to develop 6 new slaughterhouses and
processing plants and the French bilateral aid agency had since 1960 been



ANNEX 10
Page 2
involved in settlement schemes in the Middle West and through the IEMVPT
sponsored a major program in the Ilest and Middle West to reduce calf mortality
by drenching.
3.        In September 1965, the idea of a Bank-financed livestock project
was first broached and the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program sent an identifi-
cation mission to Madagascar in November 1966, "to review existing livestock
development studies, experience and to assess the possiblilties and problens
of organizing the exploitation of livestock on an economic basis by means of
ranches or other operations". From the beginning, the Government designated
the ranching scheme for possible Bank financing and it specifically urged
the successive identification missions to focus their attention on that
project.
4.        The Middle West is a potentially tich but very underdeveloped
region. For centuries it was a "no-man's land" or a buffer zone between the
High Plateau, where the Merina population wa; concentrated, and the Sakalava
kingdoms of the West. Though the soils were fertile and the climate favorable
for a wide range of crops and for livestock, the population was sparse and
the economy was based primarily on fattening of cattle bred in the West for
the Tananarive market. In the post-World War II period, the Colonial adminis-
tration became interested in developing the region, and various studies
were undertaken. These resulted first, in a scheme for colonization of the
area by poor farmers from the over-populated island of La Reunion (early
1950's) and second, in programs to settle the area with Malagasy migrants
from other less favored areas of the country (from 1960). The independent
Malagasy Government continued to place a high priority on the Middle West
project, but the organized development efforts met with mixed results. The
La Reunion scheme continues to this day but despite the successful develop-
ment of pig and dairy production, it remains an isolated, somewhat incongru-
ous enclave in the Sakay region. The first Malagasy development scheme,
the BDPA, failed to achieve its objectives and it folded in 1967. Its
successors, SODEMO (a parastatal organization) and OEDMO (part of the
Ministry of Rural Development) were more flexible and more successful in
their effort to establish and assist small farmers, but though the region
was in the mid-1960's developing rapidly, with a significant influx of
migrants and extension of land under crops, most of this was taking place
outside the context of organized development schemes. While infrastructure
was set in place and production was rising both of crops and livestock, the
full potential of this area was not being realized, and serious problems
were emerging, notably conflicts among traditional villagers, new migrants,
and development institutions, uncertainties surrounding land tenure and
significant soil erosion resulting from poor farming and animal husbandry
practices. It was in this fast-growing but somewhat anarchic region that
the IBRD ranching project was to be located. The idea of ranch development
there had been under consideration since 1963.
Project Preparation
5.        The Beef Cattle Development Project was prepared by two missions
from the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program to Madagascar in late 1966 and early
1967, with the assistance of the IBRD's Nairobi Office. At the request of



ANNEX 10
Page 3
the Government, they did not review the cattle industry as a whole, but
confined their attention to the Middle West ranching project, which formed
part of the Government's overail strategy. The first mission expressed
some concern at the role of the ranch project in the livestock sector, and
made some observations of a general nature. They cautioned Government
that the form of ranching envisaged could be only marginal in its physical
impact on national beef production, and that because of limitations of space,
ranching could never be of great importance in the Middle West region. The
report emphasized the need for broad national policies designed to stimulate
production particularly through the dev>elopment of export outlets. They
also emphasized the importance of raising prices to producers which were
held, by means of price controls on meat, significantly below export parity.
6.        The preparation missions concluded that the proposal to develop
ranches in the Middle West was a sound one, as a useful element in a wider
Government program for livestock development.  They saw the utility of the
project primarily in its indirect effects: "Properly conducted ranches,
strategically located, could serve the useful purposes of demonstration, sale
of improved breeding stock, and stimulate general commercialization of a
static beef industry and possibly also become a focus of future land settle-
ment". They were seen as a "critical pivot or catalyst" to the overall plan
for livestock development. The proposed project was based on the develop-
ment of 4 state-owned and managed ranches, each about 20,000 ha, in areas
"almost completely free from habitation and competing forms of land use..."
The area surrounding the ranches was seen as having outstanding potential
for future settlement for the purpose of beef production in smaller units.
The ranches would demonstrate "that simple improved grassland and cattle
husbandry were financially sound to the individual.". The ranches vere to
practice rotational grazing, introduce a pure-bred Brahman herd, up-grade
the local Zebu cattie, and produce seed for pasture improvement, primarily
with the legume stylosanthes. The project was also to develop stock routes
in the Middle West and to provide credit facilities to settlers around the
project area for purchase of cattle from the ranches - about 2,000 steers
a year.
7.        Bank staff coemients on the initiaZ. identification report foeused
on the broader aspects of livestock development policy - thus on the need
to stimulate exports, the problem of producer prices, the need to improve
marketing infrastructure, and provision of credit to farmers.  They felt
that though the project vas catalytic in character, follow-up action vas
insufficiently stressed, and they suggested that perhaps smaller ranches
for demonstration based on local methods would be more appropriate. How-
ever, as the project evolved, the focus of concern shifted from the long-term
objectives and national livestock strategy to the issue of ownership and
management of the proposed ranches. It was clear in the final identification
report that the ranches would be Government-owned and operated and that
expatriate management would be required at least during the period of project
implementation.  It vas proposed that the ranches be run as state-farms under
the national administrative structure for such enterprises, and that a special



ANNEX 10
Page 4
statute would establish the ranches as such a parastatal body. The Bank's
concern was to ensure first, that the ranches would be managed as autonomous,
commercial entities, according to sound commercial practices, and second,
that the Malagasy Government intended that the ranches pass to private owner-
ship at the earliest feasible date. The Bank required prior to negotiation
that the State Farm be established by statute, and that the Government assure
the Bank by letter that they intended that the eventual disposition of the
ranches would be sub-division into smaller units, and ownership by ranchers
trained under the project.
Appraisal and Board Approval
8.        The project was appraised by a Bank mission in May, 1968.  The
proposed project was altered sigrificantly during appraisal, since the
Government requested major changes which had the effect of increasing
investment costs by 50%. Six ranches rather than four were to be developed,
with more substantial investments in f encing and mechanization for pasture
improvement. The emphasis on fattening on the ranches was increased, but
the proposed steer fattening program for local producers disappeared from
the project. This was probably because the development agency which vas to
implement the scheme, the BDPA, had recently collapsed.
9.        The appraisal report recommended that the Bank make a loan of
US$2.8 million to the Malagasy Government to help finance a Beef Cattle
Development Project in the Middle West. The project was to be a pioneering
phase of a long-term pasture and livestock development program, "the firet
step toward a concept of land use for modern beef cattle production,
completely new in Madagascar". It was to organize and develop six cattle
ranches (four breeding/fattening and two fattening) following the
Australian tropical and sub-tropical pattern. Breeding of improved Brahman
bulls for improvement of local cattle, production of "stylo" seed, and
essential infrastructure, such as access roads and stock routes vere alsc
included in the project. The report emphasized that though the ranches
would be owned and operated initially by the State, development would be
planned so as to permit eventual sub-division for transfer to private
ownership. They asserted that "through its demonstration effects the
project could set the stage for widespread development of counercial ranch-
ing throughout Madagascar," since sufficient land for many thousands of
1,000-1,500 ha ranches was readily available; they estimated that such
ranches could provide farmers with a net annual income of about US$560.
10.       The appraisal report gave limited background about the cattle
industry in Madagascar, and particularly about traditional production. The
Middle West region was described briefly. The report stated that "existing
population is small (about 700), isolated and involved mainly in subsistence



ANNEX 10
Page 5
farming. Most of these subsistence farmers would be absorbed into the project
at cash wages." Total project cost was estimated at US$4.2 million, of which
the Bank would finance US$2.8 million at 6-1/2% interest repayable in 13 years,
with 9 years of grace. It was to be implemented by the State farm "OMBY", 1/
a public establishment, which was to have a high degree of autonomy under a
General Manager, under the general supervision of the National Committee of
State farms. At appraisal, many questions about OMBY's place in the National
Committee and its relations with Government were unresolved, but Government
indicated that it was willing to meet project organization and management
requirements.
11.       The project was negotiated in December, 1968.  During negotiations,
the principal issues were: the possibility of IDA financing for the project,
cost estimates for access roads, fencing, and salaries, project management,
and the relationship of the ranches to farmers in the surrounding areas. The
Malagasy delegation argued that the project should be financed by IDA, but
this proved impossible because of shortages of funds. It was agreed that
cost increases, should they occur, could be covered by unallocated funds.
Agreement was also reached on principles of project management and the
Malagasy delegation requested Bank assistance in the recruitment of qualified
expatriate managers. The Malagasy Government confirmed their intention to
transfer ownership of the ranches to private farmers, probably after year 8.
During negotiations, the Malagasy Government expressed their hope that
farmers would settle around the ranches and become acquainted with modern
techniques of improvement and devalopment of animal husbandry and fodder
crops. They indicated that the principal need was for small-scale credit,
and the Bank expressed a willingness to consider a project directed to this
end at a future date.
12.       The project was submitted to the Board on January 28, 1969.  In the
Board presentation, the staff emphasized the strength of traditional cattle
rearing practices in Madagascar, and indicated that the objective of the
project was to develop a modern industry "out of traditional patterns",
and to implement "a real and progressive animal husbandry policy", through
ranching on the Australian pattern. This ranching system was to be the
focus of the long range development of livestock in the Middle West, the
Majunga Province, and the Eastern Plateau region. The project was approved
by the Board, and was signed on February 14, 1969.
Project Implementation
13.       The project was slow getting underway.  Loan effectiveness was
twice delayed by difficulties in recruiting a general manager for OMBY. It
had been agreed at negotiations that the Bank would assist the Malagasy
government in recruiting expatriate managers. The Bank recommended an
American to the Govermuent in April, 1969; he visited Madagascar in May,
1969, and his selection was formally accepted in June. Re was appointed to
the Bank staff on secondment for 3 years in August and arrived in Madagascar
1/   OMBY is Malagasy for steer.
:A *



ANNEX 10
Page 6
on October 21. On October 28 he was officially designated as General Manager
of OMBY, and the loan became effective. The Bank also recommended that the
Government and OMBY recruit two expatriate ranch managers - an Englishman
who had farmed in Kenya since 1952, and an English emigrant to New Zealand.
In the letter which forwarded their curriculum vitae, the Bank observed
that neither man spoke French, but recalled that during negotiations it
had been agreed that while knowledge of French would be desirable, it was
not essential. The Minister of Agriculture replied that it would be
virtually impossible for Managers to learn French on the ranches, and that
it was unlikely that their Malagasy counterparts would speak English. The
Bank responded that it had not been possible to recruit French speaking
managers. The issue was further discussed during the Bank's annual meeting
at Copenhagen, and on October 1, 1969 the Minister agreed that OMBY should
recruit the two ranch managers.
14.       Although construction on one ranch had begun prior to negotiations,
ranch development was delayed almost a full year by the delays in recruiting
expatriate managers and in procuring equipment and supplies. In January,
1970, the General Manager objected in a letter to a recent reorganization
that placed OMBY under the technical supervision of the Director of Livestock.
He claimed that this move would give effective authority for supervision to
a French veterinary advisor, and that this was against the letter and spirit
of the loan agreement.  He maintained that Government "control" of OMBY should
be limited to approval of the budget and investment programs, and accounts and
audit. He appealed for Bank support in countering this move. In reply, the
Bank cabled the Minister emphasizing the need to respect OMBY's autonomy
under its General Manager, so that it could function as a private enterprise.
In a cable dated February 12, 1970, the Government replied that it was cu.rrently
considering mechanisms for supervising OMBY, but assured the Bank that the
loan agreements would be respected. The General Manager requested Bank
support and assistance on a number of other issues.
15.       A supervision mission visited OMBY in March 1970.  They reported
favorably on ranch development: two ranches were being developed
(Ambatomainty and Belobako), and sites for two others had been identified.
Working relationships with Government were good, though one ranch manager
was "having difficulty in understanding the project". The mission noted
that accounts were in poor shape. However, the mission pointed to possible
constraints affecting both the on-going and newly identified ranches: "the
presence of several villages and numerous small herds of livestock within
the ranch boundaries" - an estimated 10,000 on each ranch. Though Government
indicated that this should not be a problem, the mission urged that this
question be followed closely. It should be noted that the Government's
approach to land tenure questions evolved during the period of project imple-
mentation (see Annex 3). When ranch development began, only one official
title to land was recognized, and the owner (an expatriate) was compensated
for about 100 ha. Traditional property rights - for cropping and grazing
were not recognized, and villagers who were removed from the ranches during
the initial years were thus not compensated. In subsequent years, villagers
who moved from ranch land were compensated for land they had occupied.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
16.       Difficulties arose between OMBY and ODEMO, a French-financed
project designed to assist migrant farmers in the same region.  On May 25,
1970, an official of FAC wrote to the Bank urging that the representatives
of both organizations cooperate in the field. He also indicated that the
Malagasy Government had agreed to establish a committee to coordinate
activities of different agencies in the Middle West, and urged that a master
plan for the development of the region be prepared. In a reply dated June 17,
the Bank assured FAC that it desired nothing but cooperation. Meanwhile,
a cable from the General Manager reported "open and aggressive anti-project
activity at a high level being sponsored by you-know-who." The issue was
the location of the third and fourth OMBY ranches. Originally, they were to
be separated from ranches 1 and 2 by some distance, and in the area surround-
ing the ranches, ODEMO was to assist farmers in developing samali-scale farms,
with mixed farming. The General Manager proposed that to avoid logistic
problems for the ranches, the four should be contiguous. OMBY's proposed
ranch sites were ultimately accepted by Government.
17.       The "villager Droblem" assumed serious dimensions in mid-1970, as
development of the first two ranches neared completion. The General Manager
noted in a letter that there were substantially more people in the area than
had been recognized at appraisal - with 19 villages on ranch 1 and 11 on 2.
The key problem, however, was the estimated 20,000 village cattle grazing
the ranches, which "must be displaced". The people, however, did not intend
to move, "though gently coerced by government officials in meetings of
village chiefs... They resent being dispossessed of their ancient grazing
rights on these lands, resent being enclosed by our fencing program"... He
reported that at least twa fires on the ranches had evidently been set by
villagers. It had become clear that official estimates of population in
the area were much too low; the problem vas, however, exacerbated by
significant migration to the area, which was stimulated by ranch development
and construction of access roads. The Bank staff expressed concern over the
villager problem, observing that it was cle~irly a question for Government to
resolve. A supervision mission which visited Madagascar in October, 1970
was directed to give particular attention to this problem, and the loan
officer for Madagascar also discussed the issue with Government. Both
reported that the problem had been resolved: The Minister of Agriculture
had visited the ranches and urged the villagers to move, and there vere
fever cattle on the ranches.
18.       The supervision mission of October, 1970 vas, however, more deeply
concerned by developments within OMBY than with the villager problem, which
appeared to be on the point of resolution. Progress was generally slow, but
they concluded also that the General Manager was unable to adopt a rational,
integrated approach to ranch development. Fencing costs were more than
double appraisal estimates, and fences more elaborate than appeared necessary.
The cost of imported bulls also was almost double initial estimates, and
74 bulls had been purchased before the ranches had breeding heifers or
dipping facilities. The cattle buyîng system also vas inadequate. The
mission concluded that economies must be made if the project was to be
financially viable, and asked the General Manager to prepare ranch develop-



ANNEX 10
Page 8
ment plans. The mission reported also that planned stock route improvements
would not be completed because with the completion of the Tsiroanomandidy
Tananarive road, it was likely that many animals would be transported by truck.
Thev stressed the need for a more coherent government policy for livestock,
particularly in the area of marketing and processing. The General Manager
responded to the mission's suggestions in an incensed letter dated
January 6, 1971. Although the project was clearly behind schedule, he had
done his best, and there was no way to catch up in future. Circumstances
beyond his control had delayed delivery of seed and fencing materials,
while it had proved virtually impossible to buy breeding heifers anywhere
in Western Madagascar. He was not satisfied with the Malagasy counterparts,
who had no experience in ranching. He claimed that he could not prepare
ranch plans: "being the only technician, administrator, finance officer,
planner and executive officer on board the project," there was no time.
"No expertise is available. What passes as such in French and prohibitive
in cost and unacceptable in technique." The General Manager offered to be
replaced immediately if his performance was judged unsatisfactory. This
suggestion was accepted by the Bank, and on February 15, 1971 he resigned
as General Manager of OMBY "for personal reasons."
19.       A supervision mission visited Madagascar in February, 1971 and
reported that the project was at a critical stage, but that discussions
with Government had been hindered by a major cabinet reshuffle. The villager
problem remained serious. The Minister's exhortation to villagers to move
had little effect, and the report urged that the Bank support the General
Manager's request for official documents authorizing the ranch managers to
remove village cattle from the ranches. It attributed the gravity of the
problem to the change in ranch sites, which Government had accepted at the
insistence of the General Manager. It was critical of the cattle buying
system, and recommended that a buyer familiar with the system be einployed.
The report indicated that 16 or 74 imported bulls had died of heartwater,
and recommended that in future only young bulls be purchased, since they
were Less susceptible to the disease.
20.       The Bank experienced difficulties in recruiting a new General
Manager, but eventually a Chilean national was selected; he visited
Madagascar in March, and Government approved his appointment on March 30.
However, in April, he informed the Bank that because of personal family
difficulties in Chile, he could not accept the position, but agreed to go
to Madagascar for three months as a consultant. He acted as General
Manager from May to August, 1971. In the interim, the Bank recruited an
Australian national as General Manager, and Government agreed to this
appointment in July, 1971; he arrived in Madagascar in August, 1971.
21.       Following his initial visit in March, the interim General Manager
submitted a report on the progress of OMBY. The report suggested that the
project manager had been too independent, and that the lack of government
support for the project could be explained in part by the fact that there
was no official organized contact with Government representatives. Since
they were not directly involved, officials tended to be cast in an



ANNEN 1 0
Page 9
adversary role.  He recommended that OMBY have a Board of Directors, and
that it badly needed better systems of planning and budgeting. Procurement
of cattle was also a problem. He predicted that difficulties with villagers
would continue because the ranches were in effect occupying a continuous
tract of some 70,000 ha. He expressed confidence in the ability of the
Malagasy counterparts. The report concluded that the project had excellent
prospects; its failings were lack of a proper organizational structure, a
lack of coordination of government activities, and a lack of "team spirit"
within OMBY.
22.       During the period when the interim General Manager was in Madagascar,
the situation improved significan:ly. A supervision mission in July-August
1971 reported that progress was satisfactory. The villager problem had been
largely resolved:  boundaries were adjusted.  Ranch 1 was reduced from 27,000
to 22,000 ha and ranch 2 from 30,000 to 20,000 ha; some villages were fenced
off and many villagers had left voluntarily; Government had given the ranch
managers authority to remove cattle, and a cadastral survey was underway to
prepare for development of the third and fourth ranches. They reported delays
in procurement of equipment and supplies and urged that development of
ranch 4 be postponed until the first two were completed. They also noted
problems in accounting and suggested that OMBY needed assistance. The
mission observed that some past problems would be explained by the fact
that the General Manager had operated OMBY "on a very personal basis."
23.       The ranches continued to develop in relative harmony and prosperity
for more than a year. A supervision mission in February, 1972 reported
satisfactory progress on construction, fenclng and pasture improvement. A
conflict with villagers on ranch 3 was being resolved. There were 11,000
cattle on ranches 1 and 2, and development of ranches 3 and 4 was underway.
The mission concluded that the objectives of the project - technical and
financial - could be achieved despite cost overruns and a devaluation.
24.       A supervision mission from PMEA in Nairobi in July, 1972 also
reported satisfactory progress of ranch development: 9,600 ha of pasture
had been improved, and there were 10,000 cattle on the ranches. However,
the report also indicated that the quality of cattle purchased was poor, and
that many ranch cattle suffered from liver fluke and tuberculosis.  OMBY
had decided not to develop the fifth and sixth ranches originally proposed,
but instead to intensify operations on the four existing ranches. Government
had also decided not to develop stock routes in the Plateau area, because
road transport was more satisfactory. The villager problem on ranch 3 was
being resolved by compensation for land and fencing of village paddy fields.
Two new problems had emerged: imported Brahman proved susceptible to
streptotricosis, an unusual skin disease; of the original 299 imports, 38
had died and 200 were suffering from the disease. More serious, 570 animals
had been stolen from the ranches durîng the previous five months, with the
cooperation or tacit accord of hostile villagers.



AN NEX 10
Page 10
25.       In late 1972, the situation of OMBY became critical:  conflict
with villagers on ranch 3 continued, ranching operations were dîsrupted by
cattle theft, high mortality from disease and malnutrition, and brush fires
that burned over 80% of the ranches. A supervision mission in November 1972
reported also that OMBY's accounts were in a "virtually chaotic state with
no accounts finalized since the start of the Project", and that no disburse-
ment application had been submitted for 18 months. Staff morale was low,
particularly among the expatriate managers. The mission concluded that the
project's problems stemmed largely from lack of government support for the
Project. Problems worsened in December, 1972 and early 1973. The Treasury
blocked funds to OMBY pending subnission of accounts, and expatriate ranch
managers were not paid. In addition, a new law required that 75% of a
bachelor's and 65% of a married person's salary be spent in Madagascar.
Conflict arose over licences for radio transmitters. OMBY virtually ceased
to operate for a time. Two expatriate ranch managers resigned in December,
1972, two in March, 1973, and the General Manager resigned in April, 1973.
26.       In February, 1973 the Country Programs Director was in Madagascar,
and he, the Division Chief, and a supervision mission from PMEA held
extensive discussions with Government. The îmmediate problems - accounts,
funds, salaries and taxes - were discussed. The long term problems of
conflict with villagers and cattle theft were also discussed.  During these
meetings it became apparent that there was an almost total lack of communication
between OMBY's managers and Government, and that Government viewed the project
as foreign in its conception and execution. -Goverziuent was uncertain of OMBY's
allegiance and referred to it as the "IBRD ranches." Substantial progress vas
made in seeking resolution of immediate problems, and negotiations vith villagers
were begun by local authorities. A study was undertaken to datermine the size
of the local population, and possible solutions ta conflicts with the ranches.
27.       After the February meetings, thle most pressing of OMRY's problems were
eventually resolved: funds were released (but not before the remaining ranch
ranagcrs liadl resigined), managers were paid, an accountant was assigned to OM3Y from
the Ministry of Finance to assist in sorting out almost four years of books,
and the sub-prefect and OMBY's managers reached agreement with villagers on
outstanding land disputes, primarily on Ranch 3. ln letters to the Bank, the
Government was firm on insisting that proper accounts be submitted promptly
to justify use of 800 million Fmg already spent and 200 million Fmg requested
by OMBY, and that they follow Malagasy accountiag practices. The other
financial/personnel problems were resolved finally by the departure of all
the expatriate managers. The Assistant General Manager (a Malagasy national)
became acting General Manager and his performance was good. The Government
insisted that Malagasy Natîonals replace expatriaLe managers immediately,
claiming that niost of OMBY'3 problems could be attributed tu lack of
understanding of Malagasy customs and administration.  The Bank in turni
emphasized that 04Y was a Malagasy institution anid that it had always been
the intention that Malagasy Nationals would take over management when they
had adequate experiexice. The Government also proposed that OQHBY lmmediately
initiate a sLeer sï.are-fattening program to benefit surruunding villagee.



A»NEX 1 0
Page 11
28.       A supervision mission in July, 1973 confirmed that progress has
been made towards resolving the immediate problems facing OMBY, notably the
issues of accounts and working funds, salaries, radio transmitters, and
conflicts with villagers. The mission, however, reported that "a deficiency
of technical expertise" had developed on OMBY ranches, and recommended that
two expatriate managers be employed for one or two years in responsible
positions. The mission was also negative on the proposed share fattening
scheme which OM33Y had begun at the request of the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment. They suggested that the program represented a major departure from
the original project, and that OMBY should concentrate on implementing the
project, rather than dissipating resources and efforts; in addition, the
program offered no significant technical innovation.  The report recommended
that the program be discontinued.
29.       In October, the President of the Bank visited OMBY ranches, and
discussions were held on the future of the project. The President was
impressed both by the evident failure of the Project as it was originally
conceived and by the dramatic problems it had experienced, but also by the
potential for development of the region, and the success of the pasture
improvement program. It was agreed that the second livestock project, which
was being appraised at that time, would if possible include programs that
would promote the extension to villagers surrounding OMBY of the technology
successfully developed to the ranches.
Present Situation
30.       In March, 1974 development of four ranches vas nearly completed.
Dr. Adriantsiferana, a Malagasy national who vas Assistant General Manager
for four years, had been appointed General Manager, and Malagasy ranch
Managers are in charge of all four ranches. Relations with villagers had
improved, communication between ranches and villages were frequent, and
included mutual assistance pacte along traditional lines; employment of
villagers has increased, and schools and health centers on the ranches are
open to surrounding villages. Total area of the four ranches vas about
67,500 hectares, with about 17,600 cattle. OMBY faces a difficult period
in the coming years, however. A rapid build-up in herd numbers muet be
undertaken if the project ls to be financially viable, for OMBY is now
operating at a substantial deficit. The current target is 45,000 cattle by
1985 on 80,000 hectares. This could be achieved by more intensive herding
techniques, and an intensive pasture improvement program that will eventually
cover more than half the total area of the ranches. Animal husbandry practices
require improvement, as calving rates remain low, and mortality high. As the
ranching system is progressively adapted to Malagasy conditions, it is hoped
that the ranches will become financially viable units and vill demonstrate
the feaslbility of modern production techniques based on maximum use of
stylosanthes and intensive stocking and herding.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 12
31.       One additional benefit of OMBY has been the development of roads.
The construction of about 250 km of inexpensive but adequate roads has greatly
improved communication in this part of the Middle West, facilitating access
to villages and marketing of crops and pigs. It has also contributed to a
more rapid pace of migration to the immediate region of the ranches.
32.       Administrative problemE facing OMBY appear to be on the way to
resolution. A previous impasse on format for accounting has been resolved
and accounts are being prepared fDr current and past years. A technical
advisor will be provided to OMBY to assist both in projections for ranch
development and in technical aspects of ranch management.
33.       The absence of annual accounts makes it difficult to assess OMBY's
financial situation. It is clear, however, that OMBY has been faced with
an increasing deficit over the last four years. Sales have been lower than
expected, while investment and operating costs have been substantially
higher. As an illustration, total cattle sales as of August 1973 are esti-
mated at Fmg 58.3 million as compared to 254.1 million for cattle purchases.
OMBY's tentative financial projections for 1974 indicate that cattle sales
should exceed cattle purchased by Fmg 56.1 nillion in that year. This seems
to be a very optimistic forecast, but, even if this is actually achieved,
total operating costs would exceed total saLes by about Fmg 90 million.
Total fixed investments to date are estimated at Fmg 916.6 million, close
to the amount forecast in the appraisal for the six ranches originally
planned. A rough calculation indicates that total cumulative financial
deficit to date reaches about Fmg 500 million (US$2.3 million).
34.       OMBY has recently hired an accountant from a private accounting
firm to assist in setting up an accounting ;ystem and preparing annual
financial statements for the 1969-1973 period. The proposed form of accounts,
which has been submitted to the Bank for approval, appears satisfactory and
it is expected that the financial statements mentioned above will have been
completed by March 1974. In addition, it is the Bank's intention to Mount
a two-man mission comprising a livestock specialist and a financial analyst
to Madagascar in mid-1974 to carry out an in-depth review of OMBY's current
situation and future prospects. This review will include herd, investment
and financial projections for each ranch based on present information and
realistic investment and technical coefficients. The development plan for
eacn ranch will be worked out in close cooperation with OMBY's General Manager
and the Ranch Manager. The findings of this review will be discussed fully
witlh Government to ensure OMBY's technical and financial viability.
OMBY and the Village Livestock and Rural Developinent Project
35.       The Village Livestock and Rural Development Project is primarily
concerned with direct assistance to village producers in the Majunga Province,
and would be implemented by a different organization, FAFIF9JA.  OMBY would



ANNEX 1 0
Page 13
produce seed for the pasture improvement component in Majunga and FAFIFAMA's
livestock agents would receive brief practical training on the ranches.
Ilowever, in order to assist OMBY in improving relations with surrounding
villages, and in assisting villages livestock producers in the Tsiroanomandidy
area, the Project would provide funds to OMBY for an extension and community
development program that would be quite separate from its normal commercial
operations, This program would provide veterinary services, contract plowing
seeds and fertilizer, and additional schools and health services to 40 villages
in the immediate vicinity of OMBY. OMBY would work directly with the fokonolona
to which individual ranches belong, and would cooperate in all aspects of the
program with ODEMO. In addition, the Project would finance a share fattening
progran for steers for 30 villages to be implemented by OMBY and ODEMO (see
Appendix 1 for OMBY's contract with village share-owners). In order to demon-
strate mixed farming technology in the Middle West zone the project would
also finance a pilot pig cooperative near the ranches.






ANNEX 1 0
Appendix 1
Translation
CONTRACT
Steer Share Fattening
The undersigned, _
Resident in the village of
Identity Card No.
certify that:
I received          _  steers from the State Farm OMBY,
Ambotomainty Ranch;
The purchase price of these         steers is           fmg;
These animals will be sold when they reach an adequate weight,
which will be determined with the Ranch Manager;
I will receive no cash advance,
- When these steers are sold,? the net profit will be divided in
two equal shares for each of the parties concerned.
The price of animals that are             will be deducted from
that price of the animals that remain;
The Ranch will bear the charge for all deaths caused by
disease confirmed by the Manager;
The Ranch will provide all drugs necessary for the treatment
of sick animals;
Mr.                  will be responsible for all other losses
of steers, though the Ranch will assist him in their recovery.
Signed:                                                  Signed:
(Share owner)                                            Ranch Manager






ANNEX 1i
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FAFIFAMA
1.        The Livestock Development Unit for the West of Madagascar (known as
FAFIFAMA, from its Malopasy initials) would be responsible for implementing
all Project components in Majunga Province except the mobile health units.
FAFIFAMA has been established as a "public establishment" (similar to a
parastatal) with substantial administrative and financial autonomy by a decree
of April 5, 1974. The general manager of FAFIFAMA would be responsible to
a Board of Directors including the Director of the Livestock Department and
representatives of the Ministries of Economy and Finance, Social Affairs,
Education, and Public Works and Mines, and of the Fokonolona. The Minister
of Rural Development or his representative would serve as chairman, and the
Board would have full responsibility for all policy and financial matters.
FAFIFAMA would assume responsibility for the veterinarv and livesLock services
now administered in the Majunga province by the field service of the Livestock
Department. The Livestock Department would transfer its present staff and
budget allocation for seven sub-prefectures of Majunga province to FAFIFAMA.
FAFIFAMA's teclnical and administrative capability would be strengthened by
the provision of staff listed in Schedule A and Annex 12, Tables 4,6 and 40.
It is Government's intention to use FAFIFAMA as a development organization
through which Government funds would be channelled and although FAFIFAMA
would be encouraged to recover a substantial portion of operating costs
from village cattle owners, it is not anticipated that it would recover all
its costs directly.
2.        FAFIFAMA would organize an intensive veterinary and extension service
over four years. A veterinary officer located in Majunga would have respon-
sibility for organizing, implementing and supervising the service for four
sub-prefectures (map) surrounding Majunga. H-le would be assisted by a senior
veterinary adviser and supporting supervisory and field staff. Under the
reorganized service, extension agents would live in villages rather than in
large towns, and housing and other facilities would be provided in these
areas. The village councils would be involved in recruiting and supervising
agents. A similar structure would be developed for three.sub-prefectures
around Maintirano (map) with a veterinary officer located there. Each area
would also have an extension officer to strengthen animal production aspects.
Technical support would be provided by an expatriate animal production
adviser and a sociologist located at headquarters.
3.        The main objective of tlhe Project is to increase the productivity
of about 1 million cattle in Majunga Province by providing an efficient, well-
organized, well-supervised veterinary and extension service. FAFIFAMA would
take over all existing veterinary staff and facilities for seven sub-prefectures
and have responsibility for providing a re-vamped veterînary and extension
service. In addition to staff transferred to FAFIFAMA from Government's



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Veterinary Service in Majunga province, a total of 75 staff in addition to
the General Manager would be provided under the Project for the intensive
veterinary service -- the number estimated as necessary to provide an efficient
service. They would be made up as follows and have the following duties
and responsibilities:
(a) -Seventy veterinary and extension agents: One agent would
service about 10,000 head of cattle in about 18 villages,
covering an area of about 500 km2. Each agent would be
required to live within the area serviced by him and his
employment would be reviewed yearly on the basis that
performance is satisfactory not only in the judgement of
FAFIFAMA but also in the judgement of the local fokonolonas.
(b)  -Two extension officers:  One for Majunga region and the
other for Maintirano region. These officers would concen-
trate on strengthening extension in animal production
techniques other than disease control; namely: range
management, pasture improvement, animal husbandry and
feeding. They should work with and train the veterinary
field staff and over a period of 3 to 4 years adapt the
service so that it is equipped to provide advice and
assistance to villagers on animal production as vell as
providing a veterinary service.
(c) -One expatriate animal production adviser: To work with
the extension specialists. He would participate in and
advise on in-service training of field staff and draw up
recommendations to assist animal production at village
level. He should also assist in the execution of the
Project's pasture improvement component.
(d) -Two senior veterinarians: One for Majunga, and the other
for Maintirano region. They would have responsibility for
implementing and supervising the veterinary service in the
Project area and would report to the general manager of FAFI-
FAMA. Each would be assisted for a period of four years by
a senior veterinary adviser who would advise in the plan-
ning, execution, supervision and monitoring of the vet-
erinary service. The advisers should also play a major
role in selecting and training all staff, and should ensure
that the service provided is sound technically and has
adequate checks to ensure operational efficiency.
4.        Financing would also be provided for a range of facilities and
equipment that are required for the efficient operation of the veterinary
and extension service. These include: staff housing, cattle yards and
races, transport vehicles, veterinary equipment and veterinary medicines and
drugs   (Annex 12, Table 5).



ANNEX 11
Page 3
5.        At full development (Year 4) the reorganized veterinary service
would serve about 1,860 villages with about 1.1 million cattle and would:
vaccinate (anthrax and blackleg) about 780,000 head; vaccinate (tuberculosis)
about 150,000 head; and drench (Ascarids and Strongyloids) about 150,000
calves. It is estimated that the total cost of this veterinary service
could be met by a charge of Fmg 70 per animal in the village herds. Assuming
that only 70% of the village herd is covered by the service, the charge re-
quired for the service would be about Fmg 100 per animal. Although the
service would be free for the initial four years, FAFIFAMA would recover the
full cost from cattle producers after Year 4 and this objective appears
realistic and attainable.
6.        FAFIFAMA would execute the pasture improvement program for about 200
villages scattered throughout Majunga province. A total of about 10,000 ha
of village communal grazing land would be improved (about 50 ha per village).
Villages would not pay development costs since it is necessary to demonstrate
the utility and value of stylo on a broad basis and villages in Majunga
province have no experience with stylo to date. FAFIFAMA would provide seed,
fertilizer, and cultivate the areas required with its own machinery. These
items including cultivation costs are provided under the Project (Annex 12,
Table 8), and FAFIFAMA would employ adequate staff to implement the program over
four years, provision is made for 8 tractor drivers and 2 mechanics.
7.        Equipment and funds for the road improvement program would be
channelled through FAFIFAMA to the Department of Public Works. Public Works
would be responsible for implementing all road construction and maintenance
and it would establish a road construction and a road maintenance unit to
implement works. FAFIFAMA and Public Works would agree to work schedules and
priorities at the beginning of eech year. FAFIFAMA would be assisted by an
engineer seconded from Public Wo-ks in coordinating the program.
8.        FAFIFMA. would have responsibility for village water development and
it would organize and equip two teams (Annex 12, Table 10) to construct about
100 ponds over four years. Shallow wells (about 50) would be constructed
by force account by the Ministry of Rural Development or the Department of
Mines on behalf of FAFIFAMA. FAFIFAMA would construct deep well installations
by contract. It would also organize a maintenance team for ponds and three
maintenance teams for deep and shallow wells to ensure that all facilities are
serviced and maintained regularly. FAFIFAMA would evaluate each application
for a village water supply and decide what type of facility was appropriate
in each case. Government has indicated that a water engineer would be seconded
to FAFIFAMA from the Ministry of Mines to assist in carrying out the water
development program. The cost of maintenance of water points per village would
be about Fmg 25,000 for a pond, Fmg 27,000 for a shallow well installation,
and Fmg 57,000 for a deep well installation. This represents a charge of about
Fmg 42,45, and 95 per animal in the average village herd for ponds, shallow
and deep wells respectively. Each village would undertake to repay operating
and maintenance charges before development work began.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 4
9.        FAFIFAMA would have responsibility for constructing 28 village primary
schools. Since an important objective is to help villages to help themselves
it would organize and assist in construction by providing plans, building
materials and tradesmen. Local labor and materials would, however, be used
to the maximum extent. Funds for material and construction costs would be
made available to villages by FAFIFAMA. The Ministry of National Education would
assist in selecting sites, setting standards for buildings, providing model
plans and supervising construction. After construction the Ministry would
vrovide teachers and would assume all operating costs.
10.       The establishment of FAFIFAMA is an innovative approach to making
government assistance more affective and more meaningful for rural communities.
Although it is not expected to be financially viable on its revenue from
villages and will require government funding, it is expected that FAFIFAMA will
collect a substantial portion of its revenue from producers after the initial
period of establishment. Since it will have the organizational, administra-
tive and financial autonomy of a parastatal it is expected to be more effect-
ive than a government department in channelling development funds and involv-
ing village communities in development through the fokonolonas and with
gradual implementation of the principle that each village should pay from its
own resources for the investments and services provided. FAFIFAMA's consti-
tution and functions are broadly based and will allow it to engage in a broad
range of agricultural and rural development activities. If this type of
organization is an efficient mechanism for agricultural and rural development
it can be used by government on a much broader scale. Success will depend
on the efficiency with which it is organized and with which it discharges its
functions and it is important that its performance be evaluated and monitored
carefully not only to enable adjustments to be made expeditiously but also
to evaluate its suitability as a mechanism for development and to provide
future guidelines for this purpose.
June 10, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Village Herd - 200 Cows
Herd Projection
Before          ---------------------- End of Year -----------------------
Development       1       2      3      4       5       6      7       8    9-20
Herd Composition
Bulls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             8            8      8       8      8       8       8      8       8     8
Breeding Cows . . . . . . . . . . . .         200          200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200   200
Calves Weaned . . . . . . . . . . . .          90          100    100    100    110    110    110    110    110   110
Heifers 1 -2 years . . . . . . . . .           42           42     48      48     48      53      53     53      53    53
Heifers 2 - 3 years . . . . . . . . .          39           40     40      46     46      46      51     51      51    51
Steers 1 - 2 years  . . . . . . . . .          42           42     48      48     48      53     53      53      53    53
Steers 2 -3years  . . . . . . . . .            39           40     40      46     46      46      51     51      51    51
Steers 3 - 4years  . . . . . . . . .           36           37     38      38     44      44     44      49      49    49
Steers 4 -5years  . . . . . . . . .            33           34     35      36     36      42     42      42      47    47
Steers 5 - 6 years  . . . . . . . . .          31           31     32      -      -       -       -      -       -     -
Total Animals  . . . . . . . .        560          574    589    570    586    602    612    617    622   622
Total Animal Units   . . . . .        470          474    489    470    476    492    502    507    512   512
Purchases
Bulls .1. ....  . . .1. . . . . . .                                                                                     1
Total Purchases  .  . . . . .           1            1       1      1       1      1       1       1 
Mortality
Breeding Cows plus replacements .   .          17           14     12      10      10     10      10     10      10    10
Heifers 1 - 2 years . . . . . . . . .           3            3      2       2       2      2       2      2       2     2
Heifers 2 - 3 years . . . . . . . . .           3            2       2      2       2      2       2      2       2     2
Steers 1 -2years  . . . . . . . . .             3            3      2       2      2       2       2      2       2     2
Steers 2 -3years  . . . . . . . . .             3            2      2       2       2      2       2      2       2      2
Steers 3 -4years  . . . . . . . . .             3            2      2       2       2      2       2      2       2     2
Steers 4 -5years  . . . . . . . . .             2            2      2       2      2       2       2      2       2     2
Steers 5 -6years  . . . . . . . . .             2            2      2       1      1       1       2      2       2     2
Steers 6 - 7 years  . . . . . . . . .           2            2      2              - _       - 
Total Mortality  . . . . . . .         39           32      28     24      23     23      24      24     24    24
Sales
Cull Bulls  . .           .  . . . . .          1            1      1       1       1      1       1      1       1     1
Cull Cows . . -              . . . . .         16           20     20      20     20      20      20     20      20    20
Heifers 3 - 4 years (surplus) . . . .           6            5      8      10     16      16     16      21      21    21
Steers 5 -6 years           * . . . . .         -            -      -      34     35      35     40      40      40    45
Steers 6 - 7 years.        .     . . . . .     29           29     29      31      -       -       -      -       -     -
Total Sales .         . . . . .        52           55      58     96      72     72      77      82     82    87
Technical Coefficients
Calves weaned - % .        .  . . . . .        45           50     50      50     55      55     55      55      55    55
Mortality Adult -         .    . . . . . . .    7            6      5       4      4       4       4      4       4     4
Cow Culling Rate -     . . .    . . . .         8           10     10      10     10      10     10      10      10    10
Bull Culling Rate -       . . . . . . .        12           12     12      12     12      12     12      12      12    12
1/ An animal unit is any animal over one year old.
November 5, 1973



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Village Herd - 200 Cows
Sales and Operating Expenses
(Fmg '000)
Before------------------------Year --------------------------
Development      1            2           3           4            5           6            7           8           9-20
SALES
Cattle Sales-/
Cull Bulls . . . . . . . . . . . . .          26.00          26.00       26.00       26.00        26.00       26.00        26.00       26.00        26.00       26.00
Cull Cows  . . . . . . . . . . . . .         268.80        336.00       336.00      336.00       336.00      336.00       336.00      336.00       336.00      336.00
Heifers 3 - 4 years  . . . . . . . .          74.10          61.75       98.80      123.50       197.60      197.60       197.60      259.35       259.35       259.35
Steers 5 - 6 years . . . . . . . . .         -              -           -           666.40       686.00      686.00       784.00      784.00       684.00      882.00
Steers 6 - 7 years . . . . . . . . .         669.90        669.90       669.90      716.10       -           -            -           -            -           -
1038.80       1,093.65    1.130.70    186800    1,245.60    1,245.60    1343.60    1,405.35    1405.35    1,503.35
OPERATING COSTS
Cattle Purchase
Bulls  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          26.00          26.00       26.00       26.00        26.00       26.00        26.00       26.00        26.00        26.00
Animal Health
Vaccination Anthrax and Blackleg-  .           1.12           2.00        2.06        2.00         2.05        2.11         2.14        2.16         2.18         2.18
Vaccination - TB3/ . . . . . . . . .          -               3.40        2.47        2.39         2.46        2.53         2.57        2.59         2.61         2.61
Calf Drenching_/ . . . . . . . . . .                          2.80        2.80        2.80         3.08        3.08         3.08        3.08         3.08         3.08
Veterinary Service Charge5/. . . . .           7.75          33.05       34.25       34.45        34.65       34.65        34.65       34.65        34.65        34.65
Sub-Total  . . . . . . . . . . .           8.87         41.25        41.58       41.64        42.24       42.37        42.44       42.48        42.52       42.52
Herding-/. . . . . . .........                 120.00         120.00      120.00       120.00      120.00       120.00      120.00       120.00      120.00       120.00
Total Operating Costs  . . . . .         154.87         187.25      187.58      187.64       188.24      188.37       188.44      188.48       188.52       188.52
Net Operating Income . . . . . . . . .         883.93         906.40      943.12    l,680.36    1,057.36    1,057.23    1,155.16    1,216.87    1,216.83    1.314.83
1/ Weight and price at sale:  Bulls - 400 kg, 65 Fmg/kg; culled cows - 280 kg, 60 Fmg/kg; heifers 3-4 years - 190 kg, 65 Fmg/kg; steers 5-6 - 280 kg, 70 Fmg/ka;
steers 6-7 years - 330 kg, 70 Fmg/kg.
2/  5 Fmg per animal; 407 of animals vaccinated before development, 70Z after development.                                                                                     >
3/  6 Fmg per animal; 70% of animal vaccinated after development.
4/  40 Fmg per calf; per calf                                                                                                                                                  r 
5/  Village share of operating cost of field veterinary service plus 757. of village share of headquarters operating cost.
6/  2 men at 60,000 Fmg per year each.
February 28, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FAFIFMJA - Hleadguarters
Investment Costs
(Fmg '000)
Year 1                  Year 2                  Year 3                   Year 4
Unit      Unit    Number of                Number of                Number of                Number of                Total     Total
Cost    Units           Cost    Units            Cost    Units            Cost    Units            Cost    Units      Cost
INVESTMENT CATEGORY
Fixed Investment
Vehicles
4-wheel Drive Vehicle . . . . . . . .  No.         1,500           1      1,500          -            -           -            -           -            -           1      1,500
Light Vehicle . . . . . . . . . . . .  No.         1,000           2      2,000          -            _-                       -                        -           2      2,000
Motorcycle  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  No.           100           2        200          -            -           -            -            --                       2       200
Bicycle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  No.            20           4         80          -            -           -            -           -            -           4         80
Sub-Total . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                    --                       -                                     -         -        3,780
Small Equipment
Office Equipment  . . . . . . . . . . .   -            -           -        1,000          -            -           -            -            -           -          -       1,000
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . .   -             -          -          500           -           -           _            -            -           _          -         500
Sub-Total . . . . . . . . . . . .                --                   1,500          -            -           -                        -                      -        1,500
Total Fixed Investment  . . . . . . . . .                -           -        5,280          -            -           -            -                        -          -       5,280
Inoremental Recurrent Coats i/  . . .        -
Salaries and Wages  . . . . . . . . . .   -            -           -       10,600          -         10,600         -         10,600          -        10,600        -      42,400
Vehicle Operating Costs . . . . . . . .   -             -                     756           -           756          -           756          -           756        -       3,024
Small Equipment Replacement and Repairs   -           _  _                    150          -            150         -            150          -           150        -         600
Total Recurrent Coasts . . . . . . . . . .   -                                 ,-     506     -        11.5065O6-                                        11,506        -      46,024
TOTAL INVESTMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 -                  16,786                    11,506          -        11506           -        il 506        -       51,304
1/ See Table 4.                                                                                                                                                                            U
June 14, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FAFIFAMA - Headguarters
Operating Costs
(Fmg '000)
Before-------------------------Year --------------------------
Development         1          2          3          4          5          6         7-10        il       12-15       16        17-20
OPERATING COSTS
Wages and Salaries
General Manager ................... .                                   -           3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000       3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000       3,000
Senior AccountantZ/ ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  -      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000       1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000
Administra,tor3/ . .  .  .........................................      -           1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200       1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200       1,200      1,200
Engineer4/ . ' ''' '' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......                           ........  -  1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200      1,200       1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200       1,200
Accountant_/  ..                                                        -                        450        450        450         450        450        450        450        450         450        450
Clerk!U  ....                         .                                 -           1,080      1,080      1,080      1,080      1,080       1,080      1,080      1,080      1,080      1,080       1,080
Storekeeper7/ ...                       .                              -              240        240        240        240        240        240         240        240        240        240         240
Typist_8/  ....  .                      .                               -           1,050      1,050      1,050      1,050      1,050       1,050      1,050      1,050      1,050       1,050      1,050
Mechanic9/ ... .                                                        -             300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300
Driver12/ . ..                        .                                 -             360        360        360        360        360         360        360        360        360         360        360
Maintenance Staffll/ ................. .                                -             720        720        720         720        720        720        720        720         720        720        720
Sub-Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                -          10,600    10.600    10.600    10.600    10,600    10.600    10,600    10,600    10,600    10, 600    10.600
Vehicle Operatinrg Costs
Maintenance and Repis s12/ .. .                                         -             756        756        756         756        756        756        756        756         756        756        756
Vehicle Replacement7.                                                   -             -          -          -           -          -    3.780            -    3,780             -    3,780
Sub-Total ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  -      756        756        756        756        756      4.536         756      4,536        756    4.536           756
Small Equipment Replacement and Repairs4 .    .......                     -             150         150       150         150        150        150        150         150        150        150         150
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  -       11,506    11.506    11.506    11.506        11.506     1           1          15,286     11,506     15.286 115506
1/  3,000,000 Fmg per man-year.
2/  1,000,000 Fmg per man-year.
3/  1,200,000 Fmg per man-year.
4/  1,200,000 Fmg per man-year.
5/  450,000 Fmg per man-year
6/  180,000 Fmg per man-year.
7/  120,000 Fmg per man-year.
8/  150,000 Rng per man-year.
9/  300,000 Fmg per man-year.
10/  180,000 Fmg per man-year.
11/  120,000 Fmg per man-year.
12/  20% of Investment Cost a year.
13/  Vehicles replaced in years 6, 11, and 16.
14/  10% of investment Cost a year
June 17, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND gURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FAFIFAMA - Veterinary and Extension Service
Investment Costs
(Fmg '000)
Year 1                      Year 2                     Year 3                      Year 4
Unit    Numeber nf                  Number nf                   Number nf                  Numaber of                  Total        Total
Unit    Cost         Units        Cost          Units        Cost          Units         Cost          Units        Cnet        UnitE        Cnat
INVESTMENT CATEGORY
Fixed Investments
Buildings:
Housing - Senior Staff.                       No   4,000              4         16,000                         -          -                -          -                           -        16,000
Housing - Field Staff .No                                 300        30          9,000           20         6,000           10          3,000            -         -             60         18,000
Veterinary Fost ........ . . .   No                    1,100          3          3,300            -          -               -          -                -          -             3          3,300
Cattle  Randling pens .No                                300         15          4.500          15          4.500           15          4.500          15          4,500         60         18,000
Sub-Total .                                      _. ._ .32,800                               -        10,500            _          7,500            _          4,500          _        55,300
Vehicles
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle .No                              1,500          4          6,000                                    -                     -                   -             4          6,000
LightVehicle   . . . .. ... ..          . .   No       1,000           2         2,000            -         -                -          -                -         -              2          2,000
Motorcycles .......... . . .   No                         100         12         1,200            -          -               -          -                -          -            12          1,200
Bicycles .No                                               20    80              1,600           20            400                               _ -    _           -           100          2,000
Sub-Total.                                        -               -     10,800                _           400                                _ -  _            -             -         11,200
Equipment
Veterinary Field Kit                           Set         20        50          1,000           50          1,000           -                   _ _                -           100          2,000
Office Equipment .-                                    -               -         1,000            -          -               -          -                - _                      -          1,000
Miscellaneous .-.......                        -              -                     500                                                 -                                                      500
Sub-Total  .-.... . .               . . . .                                  2       ,500                      1,000   3-500
Total Fixed Investments .                             -        -       _               46,100                      11,900                      750                         4,500                  _70,000
Incremental Operating Coste1/
Fixed Operating Expenses
Wages and Salaries  . . . . . . . . . .   -               -              -         35,860            -        38,360            -         38,360            -        38,360          -        150,940
Building Maintenance and Repairs  . . .   -               -              -          1,640            -         2,165            -          2,540            -         2,765          -          9,110
Vehicle Operating Costs                           -       -              -          2,000            -         2,040            -          2,040            -          2,040         -          8,120
Small Equipment Repair and Replacement    -               -              -            100            -            200           -            200            -            200         -            700
Sub-Total .-                                       -              -         39,600           -         42,765           _         43,140             -        43,365          _       168,870
Variable Operating Expenses
Animal Vaccines and Druges           .-                           -                    - _23 6                  4.712.5         -          6,619            -          8,526         -         22,214
Total Incremental Operating Costas.  .-.4..5-                                                                       47,477.5    _             49.759                     _ 51 891 _                191,08>4                   H 
Total Investment   . .                               _                                  88,056                     _ 59377.          -         57,259                     56,391          _        261,084                    t
1/  See Table  6
June 14, 1974



LcolcI-IcIn.IcIe-Ie,IcI OcIeIn-I-nn,ele-IcIe,l  Ir-                                                                                                                                    o
o     <   O   e   c   -   c   n   c          -    n-n                   n   es  n       n    I -        n    0 j-                              ..    -n     n n n            
O-.innen,e-O   r    XmoOo         '  3OeP  enw.  . l       =       Bi    n.,t            S  n   Oli       on,                   rc                  en  3 
n'   P OnO-.    eOP P     Opep p     -Pe3         nn B Bnn-n                           n              n-fl nOn                        n n-nf ,  n -nn   ,i  nn< 
'e,  »In     n    i     e    e0     0    .    .     n re                        nc    -n  fi ",              -.- ae   nini,ni ns                                             c       
nn  r n      .1                                                    n     ne        ni   n         n    ..nn      -          n     O      -[  .   n   ....n v. ......a  *
. .. . w . . ...~~~~~~~~~~fi                                 c               -    C..   .n             .i.....-..... ... 
_fn              n        ''nnnn                  o          nI-.    n.i                                                    n.          e'nn   n.n .. .-.n  .    n    n  -e   ..    c 
ne.,, ~          ~  1E E-i-n                                           O                                            00    00 0 n  f                                   O
n~ ~~ ~ ~ 'nnnnc''       '                  01   Vl   O O 1./         O          O- O O O O                O                         O O' O OO .                                           h 
ficen ~   ~      ~      ~    ~     =         11            1 '-         -          s                           IS                                                        lI                  8 3 I
c |~                                                                      i                                 I F  ° 1>° FT  °F°°F°°°IW8(pDS
le             I                                          -      n      k         l        ooo          ooooo              I e-  ni  -
n         1"   e-o       -' n                                            -    In                 ee- ree,n-n'er  ,  os                '0
n       le-  re    e-e-n          -o         et   I .-e,e-e             ne ce -.    cen-o8 80 00oCon                             - i                         O 
=   C           Ir    r-                       ieO       Oece o> l' 8o               OO»8oo oe           o°'e e    e
n   I            '   e,w   c                    e,F -F                   e,IFF  IF e FFFF           e-FFF , FI
°n   I    IL. L-   L                I           sL                             oI .>rs     
rc111     1- e-no  e          e,        e- is  ce-8               ni g       ccn-o ..J ce,ôo80c  eeS enO                10'
P   1            b 114   1-  IS8    l- 1                    - 1' -o0     - I        - Ss S            g    
nB~            ~ Iee e1 ct                                                   ee    cO      oe     eo IF l1 F F u I  0°F F °         
'   ~           le                                        - 11  F°1°   0 1    00   1  °°tso                Ol , 
' I 1  le'      e,   c         I                          -9        e, 9  c  I              -      »       »            
n   4     I     o   lu- n             e         e -     e- ce             e,  lo   |'necocceecocIo
e                                                                              e,                -                                    '                   'i
'°  [I oL                                                                      e                 ce-e            e,                   i LcIr 9 W I ~ tX sI_
°n        W l         988           l°        L        °eLLn'  o ° i ° ,e, °e  °   L°   cc 'cc '   e' ia ni cE,  °01       
9 alqs,;                    I ilo lo lso o   lo  rO  ôoso    o    oosorosoo  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  n     00000
C1 ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      o                                     e                    ce  itlVe,o o~ 



Table 12
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FAFIFAMA - Veterinary and Extension Service
Operating Costs - Incremental Expenses 1'
(Fmg '000)
Before         --------------- Year -
Development      l            2           3           4
OPERATING COSTS
Wages and Salaries
Total Cost.                                    12,300.0      48,160.0    50,660.0    50,660.0    50,660.0
Incremental Cost.                                 -          35,860.0    38,360.0    38,360.0    38,360.0
Building Maintenance and Repairs
Total Cost. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -           1,640.0      2,165.0     2,540.0      2,765.0
Incremental Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -           1,640.0      2,165.0     2,540.0      2,765.0
Vehicle Operating Costs
Total Cost                                        -            2,000.0     2,040.0     2,040.0      2,040.o
Incremental Cost.                                 -           2,000.0      2,040.0     2,040.0     2,040.0
Small Equipment - Maintenance and Repairs
Total Cost .-                                                    100.0   20C.0   200.0   200.0
Incremental Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -             100.0        20C.0       200.0        200.0
Animal Vaccines and Drugs
Anthrax and Blackleg
Animals Vaccinated ('000 head). . . . . .       446.5          530.1       630.8       697.5        781.2
Total Cost ('000 Fmg) . . . . . . . . . .    2,232.5        2,650.5      3,069.0     3,487.5      3,906.0
Tuberculosis
Animals Vaccinated ('000 head). . . . . .       -               75.0       150.0       150.0        150.0
Total Cost ('000 Fmg) . . . . . . . . . .       -             450.0        900.0       900.0        900.0
Anthelmintics
Calves Dosed ('000 head)  . . . . . . . .       -              37.2         74.4       111.6       148.8
Total Cost ('000 Fmg) . . . . . . . . . .       -           1,488.0      2,976.0     4,464.0      5,952.0
Sub-Total Vaccines and Drugs  . . . .    2,232.5        4,588.5      6,945.0     8.851.5    10,758.0
Incremental Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . .       -           2,356.G      4,712.5     6,619.0     8,525.5
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14,532.5        56,488.5    62,010.0    64,291.5    66.423.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COST .  . . . . . . . . . . .       -          41,956.0    47,477.5    49,759.0    51,890.5
1/ Incremental operating costs for intensified veterinary and extension service in 7 sub-prefectures.
June 14, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FAFIFAMA - Pasture Improvement Programi
Investment Costs
(Fmg '000)
Year i                    Year 2                    Year 3                      Year 4
Unit       Number of                 Number of                  Number of                  Nu Yber of                 Total    Total
Unit       Cost       Units             Cost    Units             Cost    Units              Cost    Units              Cost    Units    Cost
INVESTMENT CATEGORY
Fixed Investments
Vehicles and Equipment
Tracto     .      .     .    . .  . . . .    No.           2,000           10         20,000        -               -          -               -          -               -           10   20,000
Equipment for Tractor,3    .       . . ..      Set         1,000           10         10,000        -               -          -               -          -               -              10 ,000
Sub-Total ..             .              -              -           -           30,000         -              -          -               -          -               -          -      30,000
Seed-/ ................. .    Kg                               o.6      12, 500             0                       7.500    12,500            7,500     12,500           7,500   750,000   30000
Total Fixed Investments ...  .       .  ....      .    -                -                   -37,500                   7,500                      7,500         -            7,500         -     60,000
Recurrent Costs
Wages-/ . .    ...                               -              -           -            2,400         -            2,400        -             2,400        -             2,400        -       9,600
Maintenance and Repairs..-                                      -           -            6000          -6000                     -             6,000        -             6,000        -      24,000
Total Recurrent Costs ..             .              -             -           -             8,400        -            8,400         -            8.400         -            8,400         -     33600
Total Investment .  . .,                                            - ....      - .         45. ..900                                             15,900                                   -         _
1/ 10,000 ha developed with Stylosanthes.
2/  8 tractors for plowing, discing, planting; 50 ha  per month for 6 months; 2 tractors for transport of fuel, seed, etc.
3/ Trailer, plow, disc-harrow, spinner.
4/  5 Kg. per ha.
5/  See Table  9  .
6/  See table  9
June 14, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table 9
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FAFIFAMA - Pasture Improvement Program
Operating Expenses
(Fmg '000)
Before         --       ------ Year -------------------
Development      1        2         3        4         5-20
OPERATING COSTS
Wages
Drivers-   . * * * * * * * *          -          1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800         -
Mechanics- . ..                       -             600      600       600      600       -
Sub-Total  . . . . . . . .          -          2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400         -
Maintenance and Repairs3/. . .          -                  6,000       6,000    6,000        -
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS  . . . . .          -           8,400         8,400    8,400    8400-
1/  180,000 Fmg per man-year, for 10 tractor drivers.
2/ 300,000 Fmg per man-year for 2 mechanics
3/ 20% of the initial cost of equipment per year.
June 14, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pond Construction Program - Investment 'ozt _
(Fmg '000)
year 1                     Year 2                       year 3                      Year 4
Unit       Unit        Number of                   Number of                    Number nf                  Number ef                   Total        Total
Cost        Units          Cost         Units           Cost        Units          Cost         Units          Cost         Units        Cost
lîumber of Ponds Constructed                     No.                         25                          25                          25                          25                        100
Capital Co t of Construction
EquipmotA
Bulldozer (125 HP)                          No.        10,000            2        20,000            -                 --                       -                     -                  2         20,000
Earth scoop                                 No.         7,000            2        14,000            -                 -          -               -           -               -          2         14,000
Earth tramper                               No.           500            2         1,000            -                 -          -               -           -               -          2          1,000
Tracter with loq  leader                    No.         2,000            2         4,000            -                 -          -               _           _               _          2          4,000
4WD vehicle                                 No.         1,800            2         3.600            -                                                                                   2          3.600
Sub-Total                                                                   42,600                           _                             -                           -                    42,600
Operation and Maintenance Costs
of Previous
Operating Costs 3/-                                                                4,610            -            4,610           -          4,610            -          4,610           -         18,440
Maintenance Costs 4                                                      -              -            -           2,130           -           2,130           _           2,130          -          6,390
Capital Cost ef Miscellaneous Pond
Egqipment
No. ponds
Fencing                                    fenced          40           25         1,000           25            1,000          25           1,000          25           1,000        100          4,000
Water trough and pipe                     No. ponds        40           25         1.000            25           1,000          25           11000          25           1,000        100          4.000
equipped
Sub-Total                                                                     2,000                         2.000                      2,000                       2,000                      8,000
Number of Construction Teems 5/                  Ho.                          2                           2                           2                           2                          2
Salaries and Wages
Foreman                                     No.         45/mo.           2           630             2             630           2             630           2             630          2           2,520
Heavy equipment drivers                     No.         38/mo.           6         1,596             6           1,596           6           1,596           6           1,596          6           6,384
4WD vehicle drivers                         No.         18/mo.           2            252            2              252          2             252           2             252          2           1,008
Mechanic                                    No.         25/mo.           2            350            2              350          2             350           2             350          2           1,400
Temporary labor                             No.         10/mo.          20         1.400            20           1,400          20           1,400          20           1,400         20           5.600
Sub-Total                                                                     4,228                         4228                      4,228                       4,228                     16,912
TOTAL COlTS                                                                            53.438                        12.966                     12,968                      12.968                     92.342
1/  Pond construction program  is fully implemented by FAFIFAMA with its own equipment and staff.
3/  Fuel consumption - bulldozer: 20 1 /hour; earth scoop: 15 1 /hour;  tractor: 10 1 /hour;  4WD:600 km/pond at 15 1 /100 km;  oil at 101% of fuel coats.
4/  At 25% of depreciation costs.                                                                                                                                                                                       H
5/  Each construction team  is composed respectively of 1 foreman, 3 heavy equipment drivers, 1 4WD vehicle driver, 1 mechanic and 10 temporary workers.                                                              O h
6/  Cost per pond is as follows:  Depreciation of construction equipment (over 5 years):                      Fmg  340,800
Maintenance and operating costs of construction equipment:                   269,700
-                        Fencing, trough and piping:                                                    80,000
Wages and salaries:                                                          170.000
Total                                                                     860,500  (us$4,ooo)
June 14, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shallow Well Construction Program - Investment Costs 1/
(Fmg' 000)
Year I                   Year 2                       Year 3                     Year 4
Unit       Unit       Number of                 Number of                   Number of                   Number of                   Total        Total
Cost       Units         Cost        Units            Cost       Units           Cost        Units            Cost       Units        Cost
Number of Wells Constructed 2/ ]                      No.                      5                        15                          15                         15                           50
Cost of well construction -
Materials and reinforcement                  per well       390                    1,950                       5,850                       5,850                       5,850                    19,500
Construction  equipment 5/                   per well      110                       550                       1,650                       1,650                       1,650                    5,500
Labor                                        per well      180                       900                       22700                       2,700                       2,700                    9,000
Sub-total                                per well       680                     3,400                      10,200                     10,200                       10,200                   34,000
Cost of pumping and related equipment
First combination 6/
Pulley and supporting structure  7/            No.          20          2            40           7              140          7             140           7              140         23           460
Handpump _/                                    No.        120           2           240           7              840          7             840           7              840         23         2,760
Trough                                         No.          30          2            60           7              210          7             210           7              210         23           690
Sub-total                                                                        340                       1,190                       1,190                       1,190                    3.910
Second Combination  t/ 
Pulley and supporting structure                             20          3             60          8              160           8            160           8              160          27          540
Small windmill                                            200           3           600           8           1,600           8           1,600           8            1,600         27         5,400
Steel storage tank  (20 m35                               250           3           750           8           29000           8           2,000           8           2 000          27         6,750
Sub-total                                                                      1,410                       3,760                       3,760                       3,760                   12.690
TOTAL COST                                                                             5,15O                      15,1150                                                 15,150                   50,600
1/ Construction on Force Account by Cenie Rural (Ministery of Rural Development) or Department of Mines.
2/ reneral characteristics of a given well are as follows: Depth 15 m:  Diameter 1 m. ; Lining 12 reinforced concrete pipes of 1 m.; Filter column: 3 porous
concrete pipes of 1 meter with screened apertures, surrounded by a 30 cm layer of gravel and a
20 cm layer of sand; Porous Concrete Base Plate;  Concrete Surface Plate.
3/ The average construction period of a well is estimated  at 1 month with a team of 12 workers.
4/ Detailed cost breakdown of average well:  Concrete (lining, porous column, base and surface plates):   Fmg 300,000
Other materials                                                           30,000
Eeinforcement                                                              60,000
Labor                                                                    180,000
Depreciation of construction equipment                                     60,000
Operating and maintenance cost of construction equipment                   35,000
Overheads                                                                  15,000
Total                                                                680,000 (Fmg 45,000 per meter)
(US$210 pet meter)
5/ Depreciation, operation and maintenance.
6/ Alternative types of pumping - storage equipment.
7/ In the case of both handpumps and windmills, an open space would be maintained for bucket handling, in case previous installation broke down.
February 5, 1974



MADACASCAR
VILLACE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMEFNT PROJECT
Borehole Construction Pro r-n - Investment Costs -1
Year 1                   Year 2                    Year 3                     Year 4
Unit       Unit        Number cf                 Namber of                 Number of                 Number cf                Total       Total
Cost        Uonits         Cost       Units          Cost       Units          Cost       Units          Cost      Units       Cost
Exploratory Drilling                              meter          15          1,000    15,000           1,000     15,000            500      7,500            -          -           -        37,500
Number of boreholes constructed 2/3/                                           -          -               50        -               50        -               50        -           150
Cost of borehole construction _/
Materials                                    per well         27           -          -              -        1,350            -        1,350            -         1,350        -         4,050
Tubing and Strainer                          per well       430            -          -                      21,00                     21,500            -       21,500         -        64,500
Construction equipment                       per -el1       362            -          -              -       18,100            -       18,100            -       18,100         -        54,300
Labor                                        per well       430                       -              -       21.500            -       21500             -       21,500         -        64,500
Sub-total                                              1,249                       -62,450                                          62,450                    62,450                 187,350
Cost of pumping and related equipment:
First combination 6/
Hand pump                                      No.         120            -          -               15      1,800             15      1,800              15      1,800         45       5,400
Tro-gh                                         No.           30           -          _               15        450             15        450             15         450         45       1,350
Sob-total                                                150                       -                       2250                      2,250                     2,250                   6,750
Second combination  /
Medium si.e wind  cill                         No.          300           -           -              30      9,000             30      9,000              30      9,000         90      27,002
0toel Storage tank (20 cu.l                    No.         250            -          -               30      7,500             30      7,500             30      7,500          90      22,500
Sub-total                                                550                       -                      16,500                    16,500                    16,500                  49,500
Third combination 6/
Large size windmill                            No.         600            -          -                5      3,000              5      3,000               5      3,000          15      9,000
ftorage tank (60 cu.m.) with troughs           Ne.         600            -          -                5      3,000              5      3,000              5      3,000          15       9,000
sub-total                                              1,200                       -                       6,000                     6,000                     61000                  18,000
Savings resulting fros, trant,formation            No
nf eaplorat,yry drillings înto              drilling
boreholes -7                               trensformed        416            -          -               10    (4,160)             10    (4,160)              10    (4,160)                (12,480)
TOTAL COST                                                                             15,000                    98,040                    90,540                    83,040                 286,620
1/ Construction through private contractors, except for exploratory drilling which is carried out on force account by
the Department of Mines.
2/ General characteristics nf a borehole are as follows:  Depth 30 m,   Tubing 15 cm in diameter   Strainer 1 te 2 n.
3/ The average construction period of a borehole is estimated at 1 month.
4/ Detailed cost breakdown of average borehole:  Cerent (500 kg.)                                   Fmg.      7,000
Bentonite (1,000 kg.)                          '      20,000
Tubing (30 m. with 60 cm. diameter)                  360,000
Strainer                                              70,000
Labor                                                430,000
Depreciation of construction equipment               235,000
Operation and maintenance cost of
construction equipment                              127,000
Total                                         1,249,000  (Fmg 41,600 per meter)
(US$194 per meter)
5/ Depreciation, operation and maintenance.
6/ Alternative types of pumping - atorage emoipment.
7/ It ia estimated that, froe the 2,500 n. of exploratory drilling, 30 drilled holes could be expanded into operational boreholes.
February 5, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND MITRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Points Maintenance Program - Capital and Recurrent Costs
(Fago000)
Year 2              Year 3               Year 4               Year 5
Unit Cost          Unit      Cent       Unit      Cost      Unit      Cost       Unit      Censt
Pond Maintenance
Mumber of Ponds maintained                                                      25                  50                   75                  100
Number of maintenance teams                                                      1                   1                    1                    1
Equipment: 4WD                                          1,900                  1     1,900         -        -           -        -           -       -
Personnel: Technician                     No            39/mo.                 1       273         1        273         1       273          1       273
Driver                        No            15/mo.                 1       105         1        105         1        105         1        105
Repairs                                                 25 of Orig.cost                430                  860                1,290               1,720
Sub-total                                                                         2,708               1,238                1,662,098
WMlls and Boreholes Maintenance
NRmber of wells maintained                                                       5                  20                   35                   50
Number of boreholes maintained                                                                      50                  100                  150
Number of maintenance teams                                                      1                   2                    3                    3
Incremental equipment: 4WD vehicle                        1,900                  1     1,900         1      1,900         1      1,900         -
Recharge pump                      100                  1        100         1       100         1        100         -
Tool Box                           300                  1        300         1       300         1        300         -        -
Personnel: Technician                                     39/mo.                 1       273         2        546         3        819         3        819
Mechanic                                      30/mo.                 1        210         2        420        3        630         3        630
Tennporary labor                              10/mo.                 3        662        6      1,324         9      1,986         9      1,986
Wells/boreholes spares and repaire:   No wells
Wells                        maintained       2% of orig.cost        5        103        20       406        35        709        50      1,012
Boreholes                    No boreholes    2% of orig.cost                            50      1,744        50      3,488        50      5,232
maintained
Sub-total 4/                                                                      3,548                6,740               9,932                9,679
Total Maintenance Costs
Equipment                                                                        -      4,200         -     2,300          -     2,300         -         -
Salaries                                                                         -     1,523          -     2,668         -      3,813         -      3,813
Spares and repairs                                                               -       533          -     3,010          -     5,487         -      7,964
TOTAL                                                                                     6,256               7_978               il 600               11,777
1/ One team can maintain one pond every two days on average.
tDetailed breakdown of anmual maintenance costs for a standard pond:
- Depreciation 4WD vehicle                 Fmg 2,600
- Salaries                                 Fmg 4,300
- Operating conts (100 km/pond)            Fmg 1,000
- Contracted work (21 of initial cost)  Fmgl7,200 (part or all of which can be achieved by the fokolona).
25,100                                                                                                                            Hm
3/ It is assumed that one team can repair a mell in one day and a borehole in three days.  At full development, this would
mean three well/borehole maintenance teams operating 7 months per year.                                                                                                                           H .
_/ Detailed breakdown of annual maintenance cost for a standard pond/borehole:
Well                           Borehole
- Depreciation - 4WD vehicle                           1,400                              4,200
- Recharge pump                           60                                360
- Tools                                  130                                390
- Spare parts and materials           20,000                             36,oo0
- Operating costs ofaequipment
(80 km per well)                     1,500  (150 km per borehole)    3,900
- Salaries                             4,000                             12 000
Total                           27,090                             550
February 28, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table 14
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCt AND RURAL DE\VELOPMENT PROJECT
Sounary - Water Points Construction and Maintenance Costs
(Pg' 000)
Total
TO             Y2           Y3            Y4          Y5          Y6           Y7        Y8-9          Yi1         Yll      Perlod
Bnild-tJp
No-ber af woter paoits bouit
Ponds                                           25            25           25            25         -           -           _           _            _           _             100
Weols                                             5           15           15            15         -           -           -            -           -           -              50
Barebalos                                      -              50           50           50          -           _                                    -           -             150
N-boor of cter points maintoined
Ponds                                          -              25           50           75          100         100         100         100          100         100           150
2e Ils                       -              S           ~~~          ~~~         ~~~         ~~     ~     ~~20  35  50  50  50  50  50         50            Go
ronredoos                                      -             -             50          150          150         150         150         150          150         150           150
Ileodqaarte rs
1 noter negioeer/Hyvdrog-enloglot              965          965           965          965                                                                                  3,86o
tant                                           400          400           400          400         400         400          400         400          400         400        1,600
a 4WD nhiclos                                3,800          -            -             -           -         1,900           -          -            -         1,900        3,800
I0 fo pogrophic and p rospec tion
eçuipoont                                0,500
Slied and  -orksbop                          8,200          _      -                   -           -             -           -          -            _                       8,200
Total  1e4d8uartors                       1 65          1,365         1,365        1,365         400       2,300          400         400          400       2,300       18,960
Woter points -onstruction
Pond s
Parchasnd eqaipment                       44,600        2,000        2,000         2,000         -            -           -           -            -           -         50,600
Operoting costs cf previous                4,610        6,740         6,740        6,740          -           -           -            -           -           -         24,830
salarics                                   4,228        4,228        4,228         4,228                                  -                                              16,912
slb-otai                                53,438       12,968       12,968        12,968         -                                                                       9 -  2
Well enstbliahbont                         3,400       10,200        10,200       10,200          -           -           -            -           -           -          34,000
Ponpiog erlipnent and storage              1,750        4,950        4,950         4,950         -            -           -           -            -           -         16,600
Sob-total                                5,150       15,150       15,150        15,150         _                                    -                        -         50,600
Boreholes
Elplorosory drilling                      15,000       15,000         7,500          -            -           -           -           -            -           -         37,500
Borehole estabIishmnot                       -         58,290       58,290        58,290          -           -           -           -            -           -        174,870
Pumping e-oipn,nt and stor-ge                -         24,750        24,750       24,750          -           -           -           -            -           -         74,250
Slb-total                               150          98,040       90,540        83,040         --_-                                            -       -              286,62-
Total Construction                      73,588      126,158      118,658       111,158         -           -            _           _           _            _        429,562
Water Points maintenance
Ponds
Eiqipment                                                1,900                                                          1,900                                              1,900
Spores and repaira                           -            430           860        1,290       1,720        1,720       1,720       1,720        1,720       1,720        2,580
Wages and salarica                            -            378          378          378          378         378         378          378         378         378         1,134
Slb-total                                  -          2,708         1,238        1,668       2,098       2,098        3,998       2,098       2,098        2,098        5,614
W.lls/Boreholes
Equipment                                    _          2,300         2,300        2,300                                2,000       2,000                      300         6,900
Spares and repairs                           -             103        2,150        4,197       6,244        6,244       6,244       6,244       6,244        6,244        6,450
Wagn and saLaries                            -           1,145        2,290        3,435       3,435        3,435       3,435       3,435        3,435       3,435         6,870
Sub-total                                  -          3,548        6,740         9.932       9,679       9,679       11,679      169          9,679       9.69         20,220
Total Maintenonse-                                    6,256        7,978        11,600      11,777      11,777       15.677      13,777      11,777      11,777        25,834
Grand Total                                     88,453       133,779      128,001       124,123      12,177      14,077      16,077      14,177       12,177      14,077       474,356
?nbrus.rv 28, 19711



MADAGASCAR
A21NEX 12
VILIAGE LIVESTOCv AND RURAL DEVELDOME;5T PROJICT                                              Tnble 15
Seoondary an-d Tertiary Ooad  Irproseneot Peogrea - =nsestmert rna  Opeenttng
Coct of" Egoomeot fOr Maintenanos Iod Conctrr,tiorn   s
Unit Cotl,                                   Total Comts                           fchedolo uf Eop.nditursn
Auooal      bepair and                        Anloua       Repaie and                                   Total
Purohase     loeratlng    Mainnepann      I nvostment    Operattt l       Natntenaot                     S/ Projeot
lotIs    Prlon           Co- tn2/      Cont, 2          Costt          Cooito         Contn D         Yeer 1      ear7 2-4      Period
rimromdary/'Iertsoro Pond
Onlnteroîre llnit "'/ 0/
eitder 11"' ''t 1)                           1         9,000            760           560            9,0 0           760            560             9,760      1,320        13,720
rooliootjr rolier (6_3 torst                  1         3,500            170           200             3,500          170            220             3,670        390         4,840
lIrrIter tyrsd londer (I m31                  I         7,000            550            430           7,000           550            430             7,550        980        10,490
Isîemi Irnetor (f,0oll)                       1         2,200            420            i4o            2,200          420            140             2,62o        560         4,300
e mixor (7/8 nsp.t                               1 ,000           70             60            1,000            70             60             1,070        130         1,6o
s      -torprrmp                              1          250             50             20              250            50             20               300         70           510
l5er tonkser                                 i          14,0o0          110           250            4 000           110            250             411,o        360         5,190
1 k romk (7 trus1                             2         3,500            110            220           7,000           220             40             7,220        660         9,200
n  rl'lmlcl                                   i         0,9ol00          110            i00            1,900          110            120             2,010        230         2,700
'lent                                         -           I5             -                              215                          -                 215        -             215
oimrollumcru trois                            -           2,00                                        1 _  00 -                                      120          -           1,200
.:rrb-trztrl                                                                                       37,265        O Ibo          o,24o            39,725      4,700        53,825    (0S$250,350)
s:. 'ylavl lad  Bettermentm/Tertiary
'irai tomoerrtlrton l'nit C! 7/
Orrll'ln:rrcs r ot1l  îîpr                     2        12,000            690           750           24 0o 0        1,380          1,500            25,380      2,880        34,o00
taler (ion iort                               1         9 ,00            76o           56o            9,000           760            56o             9,760      1,320        13,720
'rUder (i vo IlF)                              I        80ooo            650            500            8,000           650            500             8,650      1,150       12,100
rr matir Polcer ((-9 toms1                              3,500            170            000            3,500           170           220             3,670        390         4,840
0rlOe" tvred louPer (b rO3)                     1        7,000            550            430            7,000          550            430             7,550        980        10,490
Ihem1 ceurIne (Ir 011r                         2           2,o            415            140           4,400           830            280             5 230      1,110         8 560
re mmer '7/` ta,p                       1        1,000             70             6o            1,00             70             6o            10070         130        1,460
rto>e trrrs"ror                                1       10,800            150            670           10,800           150            670            10,950        820       13,410
I       1,200            120             75            1,200           120             75             1,320       195         1,905
'ater prmp                                     1           250            5°              20             250            50             20               300         70           510
''el tnnk ItrAlet (15^000 irO                  I        12000            -               75            1,200           -               75            1,200         75         1,425
sonte toserr                                  O2        4 0o0            115            250            8o000           220           500             8,220        720        10,380
'F,0>k, (7 tons)                               4         3.500            110            2210         14,o0o           440            880            14,44o      1,320        18,4o0
lirir venirbe                                  1         1900           110            120           10900            110            120             2,010       230          2,700
Peut                                           1           430            -              -                430          -              -                 430        -             430
tlnnrelluncor.s trois                             -      2,4oo            -              -                              -                             2,400        -           2,400
:: b-trnal                                                                    s                     97,080         5,500          5.8             102,580    11,390 036,750    (US$636,050)
:nipment Coomnson ta  Bot ll-its
4t,7n vebîrle t /                              1         1,900            110            120          10900            110            120             2,010        230         2,700
,nu bel 'ransporter                           1          , 86co          70P            530           8,600           700            530             9,300      1,230        12,990
.lalus"'mnmem ot-k                             1         9,000           8O0            560            9,000           800            56o             9,800      1,360       13,880
If bil  l          -raonruit                  1           8o0             80            50              800            80             50               880        130         1,270
:U-ei1                                         1        3,000            -              -              3,000        _                 -               3,000       -           3,000
^,b-tot,,I                                                                                         23,300         1,690          1,260            24,990     2,950        33,840    (US$157,410)
I101                                                                                                   î 157,b45       9,650          9,390           167,295    19,040       224,415    (to$î,143,90o4
Wo! Ores tlke plare durin2 the dry ammoo, thut ios somma  mo           14o ur 14o rorking days p.r year.
o    a rqipen t Oas    enougtly alooatod botses the tuo -ita ns an idi'ation uf the type If tackt tm  be performed by mach usit, bot astual coubination uf the varios, pm-osa uf
eq ip-ent may differ durisg pP_ject implemenaatio,.
3/  rlt  on w lbe aIls to maistaia O   1c ut ruoda per day, thît is 181  ks per -maso.n
0/ rnIs, worbld be ab       ;,go  M.pgado ne 00nst_ut 6 km of -od, per onth, thît in 42 km per smason.
5/ irîmi rosts plos 110 of preelons for sol conumoption.  Frel costo arc naloulalmd un followiag bamio for maJor items:
-  Ibldoseme     : 20 litera/houm - 5 h-une  p-r day
- 'leader         20 bitnea/bour - 5 h-or  per day
- Bo11er            6 litses/houe _ 4 hu_ro por day
- brader           12 limera/bur _ 7 huour  per day
_ Tenonne          10 iitmra/bour - 6 houe, per da
- Tetok/wutee
4hn -ehicle   15,000 km per  --amua at 15 1 /100 kl.
6/ '50 mf iOitial  rt allooat,d eqoally between last fo-r yer sf eqoipment life (tokem as 5 y-ars ra aocrAoe(.
7! rocs nn- apply to Tirat y--r.
g/ 'riglnal anvsmmeat -sut pIon  anol opmramtig  -oots.
0' Astral oper:ti ng  _ots plr, Anuoal repaie and maint ..a.m  rosts.
Tr/ FAFIFAMlA  f.etdr-uarmrs fne ror segineor and hi.s assistant.
':ne 14,  t134



ANNEX 12
Table 16
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Secondary and Tertiary Roads Improvement Program -
Annual Costs of Wages and Salaries
(Fmg'000)
Unit Salary       Total              Total
Costs      Salary Costs        Salary Costs
Nb   per SeasonlJ  per Season    over Project Period
FAFIFAMA Headguarters
Roads Engin er   /               1      965           965                   3,860
Assistant 2                      1      400           4oo                   1,600
Sub-total                                       1,365                    5,460
Secondarv/Tertiarv RQad
Maintenance Unit 1/
Foreman                         1       275           275                   1,100
Heavy equipment drivers          4      266         i,o64                   4,256
Truck drivers                    4      125           500                   2,000
Mechanic                         1      173           173                     692
Carpenter                        1      120           120                     480
Mason                            1      120           120                     480
Laborers                       10        42           420                   1,680
Sub-total                                       2,672                   1o,688
Secondary Road Betterment/
Tertiary Road Construction
Unit 3/
Foreman                          1      275           275                   1,100
Heavy equipment drivers          8      266         2,128                   8,512
Truck drivers                   6       125           750                   3,000
Mechanics                        2      173           346                   1,384
Carpenters                      2       120           240                     960
Masons                           2      120           240                     960
Laborers                       15        42           630                   2,520
Sub-total                                       4§60                    18,436
TOTAL                                                 8,646                  34,584
/ Seconded to FAFIFAMA by Ministry of Public Works.
2/ FAFIFAMA employee.
/ Personnel of Public Works employed on Project for a period of 7 months per year.
4/ Calculated over 12 months for the roads engineer and his assistant and over 7
months for the others.
June 14, 1974



ANNEX 12
MADACASCAR                                 Table 17
YII,L«E LI`iESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Secondary and Tertiary Boads Improvement Program - Summary of Costs
Tota],
Project
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Period
Headguarters
Equipment 1/                   23,300        -        -         -      23,300
Repair, Maintenance and
Operatinq Costs                1,690    2,950    2,950    2,950    10,540
Salaries 2C                      1,365    1,365    1,365    1,365       5,460
Sub-total                   26,355    4,315   14,315    4,315    39,300
Secondary/Tertiary R ad
Maintenance Unit  j/
Equipment                       37,265       -        -         -      37,265
Repair, Maintenance and
Operating Costs               2,46o    4,700    4,700    4,700    16,560
Materials                        1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500       6,000
Wages and Salaries               2,672v   2,672    2,672    2,672    10,688
Sub-total                   43,897    8,872    8,872    8,872    70,513
Secondary Road Betterment/
Tertiary Road Construction
Unit jI  /
Equipment                       97,080       -        -         -      97 080
Repair, Maintenance and
Operating Costs                5,500   11,390   11,390   11,390    39,670
Materials                        5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    20.000
Wages and Salaries               4,609    4,609    4,609    4,609         , 1_36
Sub-total                  112,189   20,999   20,999   20,999   175,186
TOTAL                            182,441   34,186   34,186   34,186   284,999  (UJs$l,325,600)
1/ One 4WD vehicle for FAFIFAMA Headquarters - Pest of Headquarters equipment is composed
of equipment common ta both units and handed out to Public Works.
2/Roads Engineer and Assistant.
3/ Equipment and budget for related expenses is provided to Public Works by FAFIFAMA
/ 280 km of secondary/tertiary roads maintained per season at following unit cost:
- Depreciation of construction equipment               Fmg 26>620 per km.
- Maintenance and Operating Costs of previous          Fmg 14,780  "
- Materials                                            Fmg  5,360
- Wages and Salaries                                   Fmg  9,540
- Overbeads (pro-rata of headquarters costs)           Fmg  8,800
65,100 per km/year
(US$300/km/year)
5/ 42 km of secondary roads upgraded or tertiary roads constructed per season at
following unit cost:
- Depreciation of construction equipment         Fmg 462,290 per km.
- Maintenance and Operating Costs of previous Fmg 236,130  "  "
- Materials                                      Fmg 119,050  "
- Wages and salaries                             Fmg 109,740  "
- Overheads (pro-rata of headquarters costs)  Fmg 146,000
1,073,210    "  (US$5,oOO/km.)
June 14, 1974



MADAGAS CAR
VILIAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENTT iRaOJECT
Mobile Health Unit P           /
Investmen t CasEs
(Fmg '000)
Year 1                      Year 2                    Year 3                     Year 4                Total         Total
Unira           Unit Ceat           Uni             oits                      Cot          Units        Cost         Unir         Ceat           Coo_          Units
INVESTNENT ITEMS
Vehicles and Equipment
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle .N... .                    Ne.              2,500              2         5,000              2        5,000             2       5,000            2        5,000            20,000           8
Buildings and Housing
Office and Store  .No.                                            1,000              2         2,000              2        2,000             2       2,000            2        2,000             8,000           8
Rousing-  ...... . ...... .                     No.                 300              4         1,200              4        1,200             4       1,200           4         1,200             4,800          16
Garage .No.                                                         500              2         1.000              2        1,000             2    1,000               2        1,000             4,000           8
Eguipment and Supplies
Medical Supplies & Equipment~... .                -               5,000              2        10,000              2       10,000             2      10,000            2       10,000            40,000            8
Garage Equipment5/ . . . ..                       -                 500              2         1,000              2        1,000             2       1,000            2        1,000             4,000           8
Other Supplies .-                                                   200              2           400              2           400            2   4 Q0                2           40 0            l600            8
Total Fixed Investment.- ,                                                            -        20.600              -        20.600            -       20.600           -       -ZU... 87I400
RECURRENT COSTS-/
Wages and Salaries ., .-.-                                                                                        -        3,300           _         6,600           -         9,900            19.800            -
Maintenance & Repairsa                                             -                 -           -                -         1,400            -       2,800            -        4,200             8,400            -
Medicel Supplies..                                                 -                 - _ .-                                   600            -        1.200                     1.800           3.600             -
Total Recurrent Costs.                             -                 -                -                            - _       5"00             -       10.600           -        15.900            31, 800
Total Investment .-                                                  -                -         20.600              -       25.900             -      31,200           -        36.500           114,200
I/A Mobile Health Unit vould serve a district corresponding approxfmately to a sub-prefecture.  It would include physical facilities at a central location  (office and store,
garage and housing), a 4-wheel drive vehicle for travel te villages, medical supplies and equlpoent for basic public health services and preventive health care, and a
personnel of 3 (public health officer, nurse, ¶river/sechanic). 8 units would be established o,er a 4-year period.
2/Simple office facilities aspr-eimateSy 12x12 M .
3/Houses approximately 8xR M for nurses and public health officers.
4/Equipment for public health actIvities  (microscope, chemicals for testing wells, etc.), supplies and dregs for preventive health care                           materials,       vaccines, drugs),
and health edacation materials.
5/Tools aad equipment fcr vehicle maintenance.
6/See Table 19, Operating Expenne Projection.
Tanuary 25, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mobile Health Unit Program
Operating Expense Projection
(Fmg '000)
Before         ----------------- Year ---------------------
Development      1         2          3         4         5-20
OPERATING EXPENSES 1/
Wages
Public Health Assistant2  . . . . . . . . .           -            -         1,600     3,200     4,800      6,400
Nurse3/ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         -            -         1,200     2,400     3,600      4,800
Driver/Mechanic4/ . . . . . . . . . . . . .           -            -           500     1,000     1,500      2,000
Sub-Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           -            -        3,300      6,600     9,900
Maintenance and Repairs
Vehicles 5/ .       ..-                                            -         1,000     2,000     3,000      4,000
Buildings and Medicial Equipment6/                                 -           400       800     1,200      1,600
Sub-Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        -         1,400     2,800     4,200      5,600
Drugs and Supplies7/. . . . . . . . . . . .                                    600     1,200      1,800     2,400
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES  . . . . . . . . . . .                         -        5,300    10,600    15,900    21,200
1/  Operating expenses treated as project costs during 4-year investment period.
2/  Salary and benefits 800,000 Fmg per year.
3/  Salary and benefits 600,000 Fmg per year.
4/  Salary and benefits 250,000 Fmg per year.
5/  20% of purchase price per year.
6/  200,000 Fmg per unit per year.
7/  300,000 Fmg per unit per year.                                                                                  X te
DD 1
Decenber 5, 1973



MADAGAS CAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Rural School Program
Investment Costs
(Fmg '000)
Ye.r I                Year 2                Year 3               Year 4                  Total           Total
Unit          Unit Cost         Units      Cost       Units    Cost         iinits    Cost        Units      Cost             Ofnits          Cost
INVESTMENT ITENS
I. Village Primary Schools
1/                                 2
School Construction ....... .    School-200m                    2,000              7      14,000        7       14,000         7    14,000          7        14,000             28            56,000
Teachers' Housing2  ...  .       .  .  .    .    House-72m 2      300              7       2,100        7        2,100         7      2,100         7         2,100             28             8,400
Naterials and Equipment            - .....      Set               250              7       1,750        7        1,750         7      1,750         7         1.750             28             7,000
Sub-Total-/ . . . .                             -                -      17,850        -                      -    17,850          -        17,850              -            71,400
II. Agricultural Training Center     . .                        -                                   -         -           -        -            -         -              -            -
Construction of Center  ...  .        .    .    Center-400m2    4,000              -        -           1        4,000         -       -            _                            1             4,000
Staff Housing . .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    Rouse 72m 2   300              -        -           2           600        -       -            -          -                 2               600
4-wheel drive vehicle    .... . .              No.              1,500              -        -           1         1,500            -         -                 -                 1             1,500
Materials and Equipment ...  .        .    .   Set                500              -        -           1           500        -       -            -          -                 -               500
Sub-Total . ..-.-.                              -                                     -        6,600         -       -            -          -                               6,600
Total Investment    .           ....... .-                        -                -      17.850        -       24.450         -    17,850          -        17.850              -            78.000
l/Simple, 3 rooam village schools for about 75 pupils, with local materials and labor.  Estimated cost of construction per school:  2,000,000 lmg, based on estimates provided by the Ministry
of National Education, Provincial Service of Primary Education, Provincial Service of Public Works, OMBY and ODEMO.
2/Housing for one teacher per 3chool, at estimated cost of 300,000 fmg per house, using local materials and labor.
3/Basic supplies required for schools, including simple desks and chairs, blackboards, paper and pencils, textbooks, basic science equipmenit, water pails, estimated cost of 250,000 fmg
per school.
4/Total cost of school and housing construction would be shared in a proportion of 70-30% between FAFIFAMA, which would supply isaterials, ecuiprent, -where needed,
and technical services, and the Fokonolona, which would supply materials available locally and labor.                                                                                                            -M
5/A "Centre de Formation Professionelle"'in Maintirano, to emphasize practical training for livestock.  4 classes, 80 pupils, estimated cost of 4.00c0,000 îing.                                                   ID -
6/Vehicle for visits t0 students in villages.                                                                                                                                                                        o
June 14, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table 21
MADAÂASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Rural School Program
2arating Costa
(Fmg'0)
Year --- --- --______
1      2        3       4        5 - 20
OPERATING COSTS 
Village Prim_ary School
Teachers' Salaries2/ . . . . . . .   2,100   4,200   6,300       8,400
Supplies and Equipment-/. . . . -      350      700   1,050      1,400
Agriculture Training Center
Teachers'Salaries4/ . . . . . .        - -    1,0O  1,800       1,800
Supplies and Equipment_/. .                         . -  100       100
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . l    2,450    6.800   9,250     11.70
1/ To be financed by the Malagasy Government.
2/ 25,000 Fmg per month for a primary school teacher; 1 teacher per
school.
3/ 50,000 Fmg per year per school.
4/ 50,000 Fmg per month per teacher for 3 teachers.
5/  100,000 Fmg per year for equipment, supplies, and operating expenses.
November 29, 1973



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OMBY Extension Program - Village Model
Herd Projection - Share Fattening Herd - 100 Steers
Before                ------------       End of Year ---------------------
Developmnent         12                       3            4      ~    5-20
Herd Composition
Steers 4-5 years  . . . . . .      93              94           96          96           96             96
Purchases              . . . .    100             100          100         100          100            100
Mortality and Theft   . . . .       7               6            4           4            4              4
Sales   . . . . . . . . . . .      93              93           94          96           96             96
Technical Coefficients
Mortality and Theft  . . ..         7               6            4           4            4              4
Weight at Purchase - kg . . .    280              280          280          280         280            280
Weight at Sale  . . . . . . .    340              340          340          350         360            370
Purchase Price - Fmg/kg . . .      80              80           80           80          80             80
Selling Price - Fmg/kg  .          90              90           90           90          90             90
December 4, 1973                                                                                                       (>



MADAGAS CARO
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOflNTO PROJECT
OM43Y ExtensionPooc
<Foig '000)
Vent E                    Yace 2                     Ysar 3                     Year 4
Unit    Nab-r ni                   ONber nf                   Oniner et                  Remse nf                   Total       TorsE
Unit      Ceai       licite       Cnet         flcte        Cnet        Enite         Cnet          Enlie        Cnet        Ucits        Cnet
INVES0TIBN CATRGONT
Fiand Invaeteente
Vehinlas .cd Eenipeeat
4-Wh.eel Drive Veleinl......... No.                    1,500         I         1,50E           -                                                                                        1,500
Llgist Vehinl.li           ...... N..                  1,000        4          4,000           -         --                         --                         -4                      4,000
Notoroyele .....           .l...i.. N..                  100         4           400           4            400          -          --                         -8                         800
T-at- .   ... ...No.                                   2,000        4          8,000           4         8,000           -          --                         -8                      16,000
Eqa ipment Eot Tension- I       ..N..                  1.000        4          4,000           4         4,000           -          -                                        8          8,000
Equipaset for                               Seeane - Rt   30        4             12E          4            120          -          --                         -8                         240
Sois-Tota.1                               .                     -        18.020           -         12.520          -                           -         --7                     30 040
Stneis Handico Fanilities
VeonleattionCoreidotr 4/n.                               400        4          0,600           -         --                         ---                                      4          1,600
Nighti Pene acd Fecieg-           .         Ne.           10        20           200          20            200          -          --                         -40                        400
SuO-Teta1...                 ......                            -Z         0.800           -200                      -          -00- 
Paetnra Deveîecect an,! E-naie  CentrnE
6/
Peetare 0eve1epg.t- ..              .        a            10      400          4,000         400         4,000           -          -                -         -800                     8.000
Session Cnntrnll    .           ~~ha            2      200            400         80           ,600        10 ,200                       -                   160             3,200
Snis-Tota1...l             .....-                               -         4.400          --          5.600          -           1,200           -          --                     11.200
Scoionlean,! Reclthe Cectere
8f
Village Priman   S.hnn.l   ...... No.                  2,000         2         4,000           2          4,000          -                           -                       4          8,000
Realthe Cactar- .l....i  ... N..                       1.000         2         2,000           2          2,000          -           --                        -4                       4,000
Hnneicg fer Teanihere .cd  eassthe
perenant.   ........... Ne.                            300        4          1,200           4         1,200          -           --                         -8                       2,400
Eqaipaeet for Seel..    ô           Set                  250         2            530           2           500          -           --                                       4         0,000
Eqaipseent fer Realthe Cantere- . . .    Set             500         2         1,J0,Q          2          1Jfl000                                                             4         2.000
Suis-Tota.1-    -....        ...8.700                                                      -        .700                                                                          17--  l400
TaisE Fixed .E.vea.oa.e.i                         .- .                      -        32,920           -         21,020          -1,200                      -                       -         61.140
Rec.rrent Ceat tel-
MAgne aed Salariesa.  .....                       .                       -         5,420           -          9,340          -          9,340            -          9,340        -344
Mainienann  ccd Repaira an veisilea and
equipaaert .-......                            .                                  3 ,580          -         6,060          -           6,060           -          6,060         -        21,760
Seed acd Feetiliner <cesetlCnet)                                                    5  - 0440       -        10,650           -         12.230            -         8.000         -         36,320
Tetal P.rennet Ceaie.     ...            .-. .. .3444                                                           26Q305          -          27_630                     2 3.400     __-I~2
Total Ievenc.- . . .                                                                                   - .                      -          28.830                     23400112,660
1/   necenPregeas  fer 40 villcga..
2/  Plew, dico, hrcres.
3/  Baste vat-ei-y eqip-.tc tac natie., pige, oehinkene; agnralnra  e ieaon eterial.
4 MNtal nerridore, E par tennis.
5/Assiaticn  te villngare i. incpreving nigit penas ccd fennig  rtepe, cli voile 1 oaS  -erînicîe.
/Davslnpcact nf 20 ha ag naeemsal p.serne vnith Stylee..cthes petvilae
7/Teohlsafel carvines, recteur plesinig and atgie ernein  nantro1 verbe:  01BY  .ntnriisutin..
Sf  Oea. Table 26; -set  htariog bet-era  OMBY acd Fekennîn     for noastrsntien f ni eple  pricey sothenls, that .e..Id  Isie  6e nsed Cnt agrtnsltural taining,. edilt iitatr.y   lasesea
ae.d village aeaniiega.
9!  Sieple herclth  .nacer,  eoatcd ne rsashes, anti  E care ced s vlelting narrer.
15/  Sisple garclistr.ancd eqaipm.t Set nectar.
ri/ lac Tabla 26 , cperatieg sc.te.
Jcnuary 23, 1974



Table 24
I4ADACASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOOK AND RURAL DEVELOEMENT PROJECT
0MEBY Extension Pregrais - Village Modol1
Sales and Operating Espenses
(F.sE '000)
Devolapeesi  1         ~     ~     ~~2  3       4            S            6            7            8           9-20
SALES
Shar   Farenn~ erd2/39.
ihorts  Fottes.s. .ord-.303.0                                    303.0        361.0      320          435.0        478.4        478.4        478.4       418.4        478.4
ivsdieg Rsrd- . .........595.6                                      634.8        649.3    1,138.5        785.3        785.3        838.3        880.8        880.8       960.0
FL,ig' .         ..... .........                       604.8          705.6        792.0       918.0     1,134.0      14134.0      1,134.o    1,134.0        1,134.0      1,134.0
Chickens.5 .   ......               .....               17.5           35.0         43.8        43.8         43.8        43.8         43.8         43.8         43.8         43.8
Rice6&  ,.-....                                                     7  ....         75.0  550.0  990.0  1,210.0     1,210.0      1,210.0      1,210.0     1,210.0      1,210.0
Maie-]-'.- . ...              .....175.0                                         600.0      600.0        600.0        600.0        600.0        600.0        600.0        600.0
Maoi-8b'.-                                                          -            -.. . .-                             - .-.. .-. 
Feanot oiî2' .-...        ...            ..40.0                                              40.0         40.0         40.0         40.0         40.0         40.0         40.0
TOTAL SALIS  ...............                           1.520.9        2,128]4      3,036.1   4,122.3       4 ,248.1     4.291.5   '4.3445             _ 4 38  O 4 3870 O    4466.2
iPERATINGEPESi
Animai Hlealth
Golf Drenchinor.-..            ..2.0                                               2.0         2.0         2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2
Liver Filek  Dose'/. . .                            -              101.1        103.5       100.5       101.4        103.8        105.3        106.2        106.8        106.8
Oithos Veterinary Treatmeot-47-                                      39.6         42.0       44.0         48.0         48.0         48.0         48.0         48.0         48.0
Cnet  fE Supplements per Pig -4                                      29.4         33.0        36.0        42.0         42.0         42.0         42.0         42.0         42.0
Cultiva tics
Costraut Plswing 1/.-...              ...60.0                                    240.0       360.0       360.0        360.0        360.0        360.0        360.0        36O.o
Si,,i16/1 /.-                                                                     42.5       40.0         40.0         40.0         40.0         40.0         40.(         40.0
Fertilieer-.-                                   -           ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~259.5  492.5  842.5  892.5  892.5  892.5     892.5        892.5
Harvestiao18/,.-....                 ....10.0                                     10.0        10.0        io.0         10.0         îo.0         10.0         10.0         îo.0
Veterinary,and Extension Service
Charge21   . . . .        . . . .. . . .                                                 200.0        200.0        200.O        200.O        200.0       200.0        200 I
TOTAL OPERATINO IXFiNIES ..... . .           .4 .3.5                                           1250         1,4          .685        170           .0  9       1715         1.701 S
Net Operating Incose. .........                      1,520.9        1,886.3    2,303.6   2,837.3         2,602.0      2,593.0      2,664.5      2,686.i    2,685.5        2.764.7
1/  Assomptions as village ..odel, befare d-evoapsent:  popoiation 200, with 40 faxilios; moixed econozy basod on livestock and cropping:  350 cattle:
100 sbore fattening bord and a 10O-cowe breeding bord; Si pige (7 sows) ; about 500 chickons; cuitivate 50 ha, 30 boîtais rite. 20 plateau (maize, smanisoc;
.s crops are sold.
2/  Skate sf profit on sale of caille; caille are purchased aod sald by inteciediaries, vhs ov  caille.
3/  Solos baood ou villoge 200-coi. bord model, for 100 ce.  bord;  -oIliug prico 10  i.g p-r kilo liveeight bighior tha. lu Majunga Province.
4!  Before developsient:  7 soya; sale of 6 pigs por sow. por year, selling veight 80 kilos, selling price 180 Fssg/kilo; Year 4, 7 soya, sale of 10 pig5 per s0w;
soilieg ,.eight 90 hiles, selling prise 180 F,g/kils.
5/  Before deveiopment:  500 ebickons, nosi cosoused lis village, 50 sold pet yoar; aftor devlospisos, 125 sold pet year ai 350 Fsg a chiekon; selling wieght
1.3 kilos; aver.ge feed consomption 4 lilos (scavenged).
6/  Yield 1.5 tons pet ha before develapaint, 2.5 tons pet ha after developient; selling price 22 Fisg kils.
7/  Yield 2 tons per ha beofro dev.olpisont, 3 tons por ha aller developsent; selling price 25 Pesg kilo.
8!  Yieid 30 tans por ha befars, dovelep-est, 40 cous pet ha after devolap-sot <2 season crp), selling pric- 20 Fmg/kila  (grecs.); stop used for pige,
fotteninig caIlle, and humsan canssisption.
9/  From yoar 2  40,000 flsg pet year frai  poanut ail an 2.5 ha; poanut-.eoal g00s la pigs.
lo/  Operating costs do net include ca.st  of village labor, rosi for land or msarketing caste; famil  labor nnly is omployed, lasd is village  cstrolled, and
produce are sold directIy by villagers at local siarkets.
il/  40 Fmg pet calf.
12/  300 RNg a yoar for 2 dase. bar ail adulI saille.
173/ 400 Fmg pO5 Fig ..Id; 20 Fig por chieken; 10,000 Fag for miocellaneous thbor veterinary services.
14-/  Minerais, vitamine, etc., 600 Fsg per piE sold.
15 /  1,000 tmg per tractss haur; 6 boots pet ha;sharge isereas..s ts 1,500 pot heu  in Yexe 3; ceet sE  rsion .otrai ,arks (2,000 OSg le initial y-a   sE
cIltain   borne by 1MBY.
R1 ise  -ed 500 Eeg/ha; mai00 seed 500 Fssg/ha; stylo seed 3,000 tmg/bs; peanut seed 3,000 tmg/ha; seed bar baud and o,cen-cultivated land produced by
village.
17/ Mai.e, 13,000 Feg per ha; rice 1O,000 Eepg per ha; manioc 8,000 Feg pot ha, stylo 4,000 Fmg par ha, peanuts 7,000 Eeg pet ha; emmure - uno charge; bottais rire
fortiIiiod irai Tear 3; pepyeont ber seed and fertilise  ahrset h..Ltime
19/  Bags asd ather usems:  10,000 Fisg pet year.
19/  Papyiesa by  oos fman  sh-rgo for vet-ri-ry asd eosseservise ta tifOY fr-i Vex  3:  200,000 Fmg a ye-.
December 6, 1973



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOC1( ARnD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
ONB? Extension Progran - Village V,'odel
*     Croppiog Pattern
Before Development              Year i                      Year 2                     Year 3                     Year 4                  Yeara 5- 15
ha          Yield         ha          Yield                                                                                           ha          Yield
Cultivated    (Tons)    Cultivated    (Tons)         ha               Yeled    ha               Ybied      ha              (Tons)     Cultivated    (Tons)
Culitvated by Hand
or with oxen:
Bottom Rite.  ..............                          30           45           30           45         35               52.5      35               87.5      40              100           40          100
Manioc.   ................                            10          150           10           300         S              400         S              200         S              200            S          200
M4alte.S.........                                                  10            5            15          5              15.0    S                  15         S               15            S            15
Sub-Total ho ounder Cuitivanion. ..               45           -            45            -         45               -         45               -         50               -            50            -
Culitvated wlth Tractors
Upland Rice. ..............                           -            -                          12.5       10              25        10               25        10               25           10            25
Malte.--2.5                                                                                    7.5       10              30        10               30        10               30           10            30
Man,~iOc"                                             -            -            -             -          10              -         10              400        10              400            10          400
Peanuts .-...               ....- ...2.5                                                      -2.5                       -2.5                       -          2.5             -             2.5          -
Stylosanthe!.-2                                                    - .....           ....20   -           7.5            -7.5                       -7.5                       -             7.5-
Bob-Total ha Cultivated .-..   -..   .30                                                   -40                         -         40              -40                         -            40-
Total tend Under Cultivation:
Crops .-...           .-.             ...65                                              -90                         -        100               -        105               -           105-
Stylosanthes .-..        ...- ..20                                                       -20                         -         27.5             -35                        -            42.5-
Total .-...           .-.             ...85                                              -         110               -        127.5             -        140               -147.5-
Utilization of Cropa
Roman Consumption. ..........                  6 toua matte               7 tons mette               13.5 tons mette            13.5 toua malte            13.5 tons mette            13.5 tons malts
45 tons rice,manioc       45 tons rice,manioc         52.5 tons rice,manioc   67.5 tons rice,manloc   70.5 tons rien, manioc  70 tons rice,manioc
Anolmals. ................                     4 tous msaize              7.5 tons malte              5.5 tons maise            7.5 tons malts             7.5 tons; malts            7.5 tons malte
125 tons mani .oc         250 tons manioc             350 tons manioc          .550 tons manioc            550 tons manioc            550 tons manioc
peatiot meal               peanot meel                peanut meal                pecnot meai                pecnot mead
Surplus Sold: (tons)
Malte . ...............7                                                                             24                        24                         24                             24-
Rice .-...       ...-  ...12.5                                                            -          25              -         45               -         55               -55-
Peanot 0i11-        .......------------------------(40,000 FBg) -------------------------------
1/ Two-Season trop - crops are harvested after 2 years: crop harvested f rom S ha in the year before development.
2/ Twenty ha deveioped lu strips lu Year i by OMBY; thereafter, stylo woUid be cuitivated by individuels for pesture sud as part nf a rotation.
Stylo would remain an average of 4 years, followed by malte or manioc.
December 4, 1973



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OMEBY Extension Program
OMBY, Revenue and Operating Expenses
(Fmg '000)
Development   1         2         3        4         5         6        7         8        9        10        il        12      13-15      16        17     18-20
REVENUE
Payment from Villagers:
Veterinary Service. .  ..........                 2,254    4,604    4,640    4.722    4,912    4,990    5,038    5,068    5,080    5,080    5,080    5,080    5,080    5,080    5,080    5,080
Contract Plowing    2/         . .        - *    _  .  1,200    6,000   12,000   14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400   14,400
Seeds and Fertilizer-  . .........         .        -       5,540   16,090   28,320   36,320   37,300   37,300   37,300   37,300   37,300   37,300   37,300   37,300   37,300   37,300   37,300
Fokonolona Paynent for
OMBY Service,.       .   .   . .             -             - .4000    8.000    8,000    8,000    S,000    8,000    8,000    8,000    8,000    8,000    8,000    8,000    c,O00    8,000
Total Revenue .- 3......               . 3      _454       4    36 730                                      8    4,768   6470   64,780   64 780   64 780
OPERATING EXPENSES
Wages:
1 Assistant General Manager
for Extenfsio_../ . ............1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
4 Assistant Ranch Managers
for Extension4/.-                      -       2,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4.000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000
8 Vaccinators/Exteysios Workers.          -        1,200    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2.400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400
8 Tractor Drivers- . .-......                        720    1           440    1          ,440 1,4 1  440 1.440    1,440    1,440                  1,440 11440 1, 440 1.440               1 440    14401
Sub-Total .  .................                5,420    9,340    9,  340    94040    9,34      9         9340    9,340         40    9,340    9,340    9,340    9,340    9.340    9,340    9,340
Vehicles and Machinery
Repairs and Maintenance-
Agricultural Equipment . . . .                 2,400    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800    4,800
Vehicles.-                                     0 . . .  ...........  1,180    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260
Vehicle and E quipment Replace-
ment Cost.  . .                                 -        -.        -        -         -       18.020   12,520      --                         18020   12,520        -      1,20   12,520
Sub-Total       . . ..-.........               3.580    6,60    6,060    6 0         6,060   24.080   18.580    6,060                6,060   24,080   1,580    6.060   24,080   18,580    6.060
Veterinary Supplies                     -        2,254    4,604    4,640    4,722    4,912    4,990    5,038    5,068    5,080    5,080    5,080    5,080    5,080    5.080    5,080    5,080
Seeds and Pertilizer-2/ . .........             5,440   16,090   28,320   36,320   37,300   37,300   37.300   37.300   37.300   37,300   37.300   37.300   37.300   37.300   37.300   37,300
Sub-Total .  . . ..............-               7,694   20,694   32.960   41,042   42,212   42,290   42,338   42.368   42.380   42,380   42,380   42,380   42.380   42,380   42.380   42.380
Total Operating Expenses         .        -       16.694   36,094              56 4     57.612   75,710   70.258   57,768   57.780   57,780   75,800   7030O  57.780    500.0300 
1/  Villagers pay OMBY for full cost of drugs at the tise of treatment.
2/  Villagers reiaburse OMEY for full cost of seeds and fertilizer at harvest tine.
3/  Salary of 1.5 million Fmg a year (including allowances).
4/  Salary of 1 million Fmg a year (including allowances).
5/  Salary of 300,000 a year (including allswances).
6/  Salary of 180,000 a year (including allowances).
7/  207, of cost of equipment per year.
8/  Replacement of all vehicles and eqsipment every 5 years.
December 21, 1973



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OMBY Extension Programs
Incremental Cash Flow - (M8Y
(Fmg '000)
Be fore----------------------------------------------------------------    Year            _-_-_-_-_-_-_-__-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_
Development  1          2         3         4         5         6         7          8         9        10        11        12       13-15       16        17       18-20
Sources of Funds
Payments from Villagers  . . . ,          -        3,454   16,144   36,730   55,442   63,632   64,690   64,738   64,768   64,780   64,780   64,780   64,780   64,780   64,780   64,780   64,780
Goveroment ContributioT /.  . .           -       47,360   53.070   28.830   23,400
Total Sources  .-                             508l4   69,214   65 560   78.842   63 632              64.690  764738   64,768   64.780   64.780   64, 64 780.          80  664, 780   64, 780   640 6780
Use of Funds
Investment                                -       32,920   27,020    1,200
Recurrent Coats                           -       16,694   36,094   48,360   56,442   57,612   75,710   70,258   57,768   57,780   57,780   75,800   70,300   57,780   75,800   70,300   57,780
Total Uses          .-                        49,614   63, 114   49, 560   56, 442   57,612   75710   70,258                                                           57,6 780   75,800   70 300   57,780
Annual Surplus/Deficit .-                             1,200     6,100   16,000   22,400    6,020  (11,020)   (5,520)   7,000    7,000    7,000  (11,020)  (5,520)   7,000  (11,020)  (5,520)   7,000
Cumulative Surplus/Deficit . . . .          -         1,200    7,300   23,300   45,700   51,720   40,700   35,180   42,180   49,180   56,180   45,160   39,640   60,640   49,620   44,100   65,100
1I  Equal to actual annual project investment; see Table 23.
January 23, 1974
Hnj



ANNEX 12
Table 28
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Village Share Fattening Program
Herd Projection
Before         --     End of Year----         -
Development       1     2     3      4     5-15
Herd Composition
Steers 4 - 5 years  . . .      -             -     96    96    96    96
Purchases
Steers 4 - 5 years  . . .      -            100   100   100   100   100
Mortality and Theft
Steers - 5 years  . .a.        -              4     4     4     4     4
Sales
Steers 5 -6 years  . . .       -             -     96    96    96    96
Technical Co-efficients
Mortality and Theft % . .      -              4     4     4     4     4
Weight at Purchase kg . .      -            280   280   280   280   280
Weight at Sale kg . . . .      -            350   350   350   360   370
Purchase Price Fmg/kg . .      -             80    80    80    80    80
Selling Price Fmg/kg  . .      -             90    90    90    90    90
November 28, 1973



ANNEX 12
Table 29
NADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Village Share Fattening Program - 100 Steers
Investment Costs
(Fmg '000)
Unit     Unit      Year 1               Total  Total
Cost     No. Units     Cost   Unit    Cost
Investment Category
Steer Purchase . . . . . . . No.       22.4       100        2,240.0   100   2,240.0
Veterinary Service-/ . . . . per        0.36       100          36.0   100      36.0
animal
Other Extension
Services . . . . . . . . . per        0.1       100           10.0  100       10.0
2/         animal
Pasture Development-  . . .   ha       10.0        25          250.0  125      250.0
Total Investment . . . . . . .            -           -        L-â6.o   _      2.536.0
1/ One vaccinator for 1,000 cattle at 20,000 Fmg per
month salary, 10,000 Fmg per month transport and
equipment.
2/ Development of Stylosanthes: plowing, cultivation,
fertilizer, and seed (5 kilos per ha @ 600 Fmg per kg)
December 4, 1973



ANMEX 12
Table 30
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Model - Village Share Fattening Program
Village Revenue and Operating Expenses
(Frg '000)
Before         ------------ Year -------------
Development      1      2       3      4   5 - 15
Inc ome
Share of Sale of Steers 1/....        -          -    392.0  392.0  435.2  478.4
Opera ting Expenses
Herding                                         6oo-  60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0
Liver fluke drugs   -.... ..                           30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0
Total .................                       90.0   90.0   90.0   90.0   90.0
Net Surplus .............                   -    302.0  302.0  345.2  388.4
1/ 50% of difference between selling and purchase price/head.
2/ One man per 100 steers.
December 28, 1973.



AN'XEX 12
Table 31
M&DAGASCAR
VILLA&G LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - ViUage Share Fattening Program - 100 steers
Sales and Operating Expenses - Project Administration
(Fmg '000)
Before         --------------- Year ------------------
Development      1         2         3        4     5 - 15
Sales
Steers 5 - 6 years 1/            -            -     3,024.0  3,024.0  3,110.4  3,196.8
Steer Purchase 2/ ..........        -         2240.0  2,240.0  2,240.0  2,240.0  2,240.0
Operating Expenses .........
Veterinary Service               -            36.0     36.o      36.0     36.0      36.0
Other Extension Charges          -            10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0
Pasture Development 3/           -           250.0      -         -        -         _
Total   ............           -        2,536.0  2,286.0  2,286.0  2.         2286.o
Gross suplus/Deficit ....                 (2,536.0)   738.0    738.0    824.4    910.8
Payment to Shareowners 4/       --            _       392.0    392.0    435.2    478.4
Net Surplus/Deficit             -        (2,536.0)   346.o    346.0    389.2    432.4
1/ Selling Price Fmg 90/kg.
2/ Purchase Price Fmg 80/kg.
_/ Fmg 10,000/ha.
V/ Of which 90,000 Fmg for Village Operating Expenses
December 28, 1973.



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Share Fattening Program - 100 Steers
Project Administration and Village Participants - Te-reenta I Cash FI-n
(Fmg '000)
Before      -------------------------------------------------------------------- year -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Development   1             2            3           4            5           6            7           8            9          10           il           12          13           14       15-20
Pro ject Administration
Source of Funds
Sales .... .                             -         3,024.0    3,024.0    3,110.4    3,196.8    3,196.8    3,196.8    3,196.8    3,196.8                3,196.8    3,196.8       3,196.8    3,196.8    3,196.8    3,196.8
Long-Term Loan  ....    -             2,536.0        -            -           -             _          -             _            _          -           -              _           _          -            -            -
Total Sources . . . .   -           2536.0                   3.204.0      3,110.4                                                       396.                      8                        31        96.8           3 196 8
Uses of Funds
Steer Purchase  .  . . .   -          2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0    2,240.0                         2,240.0    2,240.0
Operating Costs   . . .   -              296.0        46.0         46.0        46.0         46.0        46.0         46.0        46.0         46.0        46.0         46.0         46.0         46.0        46.0         46.0
Payment to Share-
owners        /  . *   .   -           -           392.0       392.0        435.2       478.4        478.4       478.4        478.4        478.4       478.4        478.4       478.4        478.4        478.4        478.4
Loan Interest * . . .   -                -           184.0        184.0       -            -           -            -           -            -           -            -            -           -            -            _ _
Loan Annuity2/               -           -           -            -           365.3        365.3       365.3        365.3       365.3        365.3        365.3       365.3        365.3        365.3
Total Uses .-                       2536.0    2 862-0    2,862.0    3,086.5    3,129.7    3,129.7    3,129.7    3.129.7    3,129.7                   3.129.7    3.129.7    3.129.7            29.7        4.
Annuai Cash Surplus/
(Deficit) . .   -            -            162.0       162.0         24.0        67.2         67.2        67.2         67.2        67.2         67.2         67.15        67.2        67.2        432.4        432.4
Cumulative Cash Surplus/
(Deficit) . .   -            -            162.0       324.0        348.0       415.1       482.3        549.4        616.6       683.7        750.9        818.0        885.2       952.3      1,384.7      1,817.1
Village Participants
Annual Cash Surplus/
(Deficit)3L
Village Share-owners       -           -           302.0        302.0       345.2        388.4       388.4        388.4       388.4        388.4        388.4       388.4        388.4        388.4       388.4        388.4
1/ Interest at 7.25%. per annum on outstanding balance of loan.
2/ Annuity for 10 years at 7.25%
3/  Payaent to share-owners minus 90,000 Fmg for village operating costs.
November 27, 1973                                                                                                                                                                                                            t



ANNEX 12
Table 33
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Pig Breeding/Fattening - 6 Sows
Herd Projection
Before
Development   Year 1   Year 2  Year 3-20
Herd Composition
Sows and Replacements . . . . . . . .                   6        6        6
Pigs - 0-8 weeks. . . . . . . . .  . .                 13       13       13
Pigs - 8-34 weeks . . . . . . . . . .                  24       28       28
Total Pigs . . . . . . . . . .                  43       47       47
Total Births. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  50       90       90
Purchases
Gilts  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  -  6     -
Total Purchases  . . . . . . .                  -
Mortality
Pigs 0-8 weeks  . . . . . . . .                        10       17       18
Pigs 8-34 weeks . . . . . . . . . . .      -            3        3        5
Total Mortality  . . . . . . .      -                    20       23
Sales
Culled Sows.         . . . .     .         --                    2        2
Finished Pigs.            . .  .  .   .    --                   64       65
Total Sales  . . . . . . . . .      -                    66       67
Technical Coefficients
Conception Rate - (%) . . . . . . . .      80          80       80       80
Number Born/Farrowing . . . . . . . .      10          10       10       10
Number of Farrowings/Fertile Sow/Year     1.8         1.8      1.8      1.8
Average Number of Farrowings/Female
in Breeding Herd  . . . . . . . . .     1.5         1.5      1.5      1.5
Sow Culling Rate/Year - (%)                40          40       40       40
Mortality - (%)
Breeding Females
Pigs - 0-8 weeks  . . . . . . . . .      20          20       20       20
Pigs - 8-34 weeks . . . . . .             8           8        8        8
November 14, 1973



Table 34
VILLME LV STOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMEtlT PR0E-CT
Model - Pin Fart - Six Sovu
Inveatnt Cost8
,,                                .(~~~~~~~~hg  '000)
Year 1
Unit      Nurber of              Total      Total
Unit      Cost          Units      Coat    Unit.       Cost
INVESTMENT CATEGORY
Fixed Investment
Farm Buidlinas
Farroving pen .                                           10 m2   50.0               1    50.0   1    50.0
Dry Sow pen .                                             15 m2  75.0                1    75.0  1    75.0
Weaning pen .                                              10 m   50.0               1    50.0  1    50.0
Fattening pen .                                           15    75.0                 3    225.0   3    225.0
Feed Store. .                      .                      20 m   100.0               1    100.0   i    100.0
Sub-total .-                                                      -             -   500.0  -   500.0
Tools and Miscellaneous Supplies .-                                      -             -         50.0      -         50.0
Livestock Purchase
Gilts ..                                                  No.   20.0    6   120.0  6   120.0
Boar .                                                    No.         24.0           0.33       8.0     0.33        8.0
Sub-total .                                           -           -             -   128.0  -   128 0
Total Fixed Investment .-                                               -              -    678.0   -              678.0
Incremental Operatinz Expenses 1/                                                              305.8       -        305.8
Total Investment                                                                                9838 .   . . .      983.8
1/  See Table35.  Total operating expenses financed in Year One.
January 25, 1974



AIUEX L2
Table 35
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Pig Farm - Six Sows
Sales and 0per tin   Expenses
Before        --             Year ---------------
Development      1           2           3          4-20
SALES
Sale of Pigs!
Finished Pigs  ./ .  ...... ... .                  -           -         1,094.4    1,111.5    1,111.5
Cull Sows  ./.-                                                -            40.0        4o.5       4°.5
Sub-total .  . .. ... . ..                     -     -               1,134.4    1           1,151.5
Sale of Crops:
Maize 3/  .  ............ . .                      -            82.5       198.0       198.0      198.0
Peanuts 4/ ........ . . . . .. .                   -            85.8       193.1      214.5       214.5
Stylosanthes Seed |           .  .  .  .           -           -            4o.0       4°-°        4°.°
Sub-total.          .          .   .  .  .    .  -         168.3       431.1      452.5       452.5
Total Sales ......... ... .. . .                     -           168.3    1,565.5    1,6o40       1,6o4 o
OPERATING EXPENSES
Labor                 .    . .                     -            80.0       160.0       160.0      160.0
Maintenance of Farm  .      . .                    -            22.0        22.0       22.0        22.0
Cliltivation3
Maize Cultivation 6/      . . .                                6 . . .  -  57.5  138.0  138.0   138.0
Peanut Cultivation7 .7/                                        6o         0.         1.          1.
Manioc Production 8/                             -            48.6       134.6      143.2       143.2
Stylosanthes 9/             . .... .            -             20.0        20.0       20.0        20.0
Sub-total .  .. .. ..                          -           172.1       396i       416.2       416.2
Animal Drugs and Vaccines LO/                      -            26.4        26.8        26.8       26.8
Boar Hire ...... . . ... .. ..                     -              2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
Purchase of Concentrate Feed il  . . .             -           151.6       405.4      431.5       431.5
Marketing and Service Charge 1/ . . .              -           -           200.0      200.0       200.0
Miscellaneous  .... . .       . ......             -             20.0       20.0        20.0       20.0
Total Operating Expenses ...... . . .                -            474.1    1,232.3    1           1,278.5
Net Operating Income.        .   .  . .   .          -           (305.8)     333.2       325.5      325.5
i/  Selling weight 90 kg, selling price l9OTtag/kg.
2/ Selling price 20,000 per herd.
3/ Year One, 3.75 t, Year 2-20 9.0 t sold tomanagement at 22 Fmg/kg.
Year One, 2.6 t, Year 2, 5.85 t, Years 3-20, 6.5 t sold to management at 33 Fmg/kg.
5/ Prom Year two Stylo  seed fron 2 ha yield 50 kg/ha  sold tomanagement a4 400 Fmg/kg.
Year One, 1.25 ha, vears 2-20 3 ha, at a cost of 46,000 Fimg/ha.
7| Year One, 1.0 ha, Year 2 2.25 ha, Years 3-20 2.50 ha, at a cost of 46,000 Fmg/ha.
Production of dry matter for pigs; cultivation cost (10,000 Fmg/ha) paid to management
farmer harvests and produces dry matter: Year One, 4,886 kg; Year Two, 13,459 kg, Year Three,
14,317 kg; total cost 10 Fmg/kg dry manioc.
2/ Two ha, cost of 10,000 Fmg/ha.
1 / Tmg 400 per pig sold.
11/  Cost of production of feed plus 1l0/
Fee of 200,000 fmg per year from Year Three
June 14, 1974



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Pig Farm - Six Sows
Incremental Cash Flow
(Fmg '000)
Before          ---------------------------------------------------- Year --------------------------------------------------____
Development         1           2            3            4            5            6            7-10         11           12-15        16           17-20
Source of Funds
Sales .-                                                            168.3      1,565.5      1,604.0      1,604.0    1,604.0       1,604.0      1,604.0      1,604.0      1,604.0      1,604.0      1,604.0
Development         . . . . . . . . . . .             -             983.8        -                                      -           -                                                    -           -
Total Sources .-                                             1,152.1      1,565.5       ,       604.0      1,604.0 1, 604.0         1,604.0 1 41,604.0 1,604.0                          1,604.0 1,604.0
Uses of Funds
Investment Costs .-                                                 678.0    -                -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -
Operating Costs  . . . . . . . . . . .                -             474.1      1,232.3      1,238.5      1,238.5      1,238.5     1,238.5      1,238.5      1,238.5      1,238.5      1,238.5      1,238.5
Loan Interest .-                                                    -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -
Loan Annuity 1/ .  .. . . . ..                        -      -                   313.2        313.2        313.2        313.2        -            -            -            -            -            -
Total Uses .-                                                1152.1 1,545 5. ..55157                1,551.7    1,551.7        1.238.5 1,238.5           1,238.5      1,238.5      1.238.5 1,238.5
Annual Cash Surplus/(Defcit).                            -               0           20.0         52.3         52.3         52.3       365.5        365.5        365.5        365.5        365.5        365.5
C i
1/  Interest charge at 7,25% p.a.                                                                                                                                                                                         O  x
January 25, 1974



Table 37
MUADAGASCAR
VILLUE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Pig Prograz - _Management
Investuent Costs
(FmR '000)
Year 1                   Year 2
Coast per    Number of                 Nuzber of                  Total       Total
Unit         Unit          Units        Cost         Units        Cost        Units       Cost
INVESTMENT CATEGORY
Fixed Investment
Buildings                                                     2
Staff Housing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          72 m          300.0         4         1,200.0         -                         4       1,200.0
Office  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  100 a2  500.0          1          500.0         _            _            1         500.0
Feed Compounding Unit ......... . . .                 400 m2   S ,000.0             1        5,000.0         -                         1       5,000.0
Grain Store 1/  .  .....  .   .  .                    180 m2         800.0         2         1.600.0         3          2.400.0        5      4.000.0
Sub-total ...... . . .                                                                   8.300.0                   2,400.0               10.700.0
Vehicles
Truck ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  No.  2,000.0         1         2,000.0         -            -            1       2,000.0
l?our-Wheel Drive-vehicle  ... .  .  .  .  .  .    .  No.          1,500.0         1         1,500.0         -            -            1       1,500.0
Light Vehicle ... .  .                                No.          1,000.0         1         1,000.0        -             -            I       1,000.0
Motorcycle  ........   . .                            No.            100.0          2          200.0         -            -            2         200.0
Sub-total                                                                                4.700.0                                          4,700.0
Agricultural Machinery
Tractor 2/..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  No.       2,000.0         2         4,000.0         2         4,000.0         4       8,000.0
Prailers  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .     No.            500.0         2         1,000.0         2         1,000.0         4       2,000.0
Plows and Disc-harrows 3/ ... .  .  .  .  .  .    .   No.            410.0         2           820.0        2             820.0        4      1,640.0
Fertilizer Spreader ... . . . .......                 No.             60.0         2           120.0         -            -            2         120.0
Maize Planter ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  No.         100.0         2           200.0         1            100.0        3         300.0
Maize Harvester ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  No.         660.0         2         1,320.0         1            660.0        3       1,980.0
Peanut Harvester  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  No.          900.0         1           900.0        1             900.0        2      1.800.0
Sub-total ......                   ,                                                     8.360.0                   7,480.0               15,840.0
E.uipment for Milling
Hammermill  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  No.        100            2           200.0        -            -            2         200.0
Diesel Engines S/ ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  No.          400           2           800.0         -            -            2         800.0
Feed Mixer 6/ .....  .         ...... .               No.            250           1           250.0         -            -            1         250.0
Weighbridge 7/       .          ...... . . .          No.          1,000            1        1,000.0         -            -            1       1,000.0
Small Scales and Equipment  . .       .....  .    .   Set            200           1           200.0         -                         1         200.0
Shelling Machine for Peanuts  ... .  .  .  .    .     No.            400           1           400.0        -                          1         400.0
Sub-total.                                                                               2850.0 2.850.0
Total Fixed Investment  ... . . . .......                                                        24.210.0                   9880.0                34.090.0
OPERATING COSTS 8/
Total Incremental Operating Costs .4415.0                                                                                     125.0                4.540.0
Total Investment                                                                                   28.625.0                  1 0                    38J630.0
1/  Crib-type bin of netting with cement floor and eorrugated roof, capacity 100 ton maize.
2/ 60 H.P. Diesel tractor.
3/  Three-furrow plow.
4/ Four-row planter.
5/ 40 H.P. engines.
6/  2,000 kg mixer.
7/ Five-ton, price includes installation cost.
8/  See Table 38.  Finance deficit in Operating Coats for Years 1 and 2.
February 28, 19'74






VI  AELIVEtTO  Art RURL  -00LFltS           CTOJO
teeoe,g                 2              3              O                                            7 20            101            12-15          16              17-20
legOPc.r,o 0021 3.55.                                                                                 1.1.               277.           292.0g.95.                     295.           292l            2,25 .t         ,93.           2,25.          2925.0
Sale  E grîoee.Oho  s-e  4/ .0,03..7.0   ..   .2,500.t8                                                                                2,560.0        0,560.0o        0,50.0.        2,SAO.0         2.500.0        2,tOo.0         2,500.0        2,50t.0
Pecnot 0AI01ro2 .9..3.. 6.7.. .. ..                                                    1,257.         3.7371.3       5,442.5         5.750.         5,3758.0        5,.750.0       5.75.0           ,5.            ,5.             .5.           3,50.1
telo   ltohir  aAd              . 7.2.66.2.8  ./.25.0                                                       437.            575.0          35.2           3 75.0          375.0          375.7           57.             7.              7.             7.
Rcyorod..ggd                              . .r.rore.a .2./.660i.7                                      1.330.0        1,340t0      1J34ù.2         1jjSQ.0           l340.0       1.jA4Ag0        1,/,ïf           1,34ô0.       ..±152,0       .,34t20
or Oaîg.t.........                 .......8372.5                                                58975          50.2_77.5       51 _3657       3 1 365 O       51.650                        5  05.          51.305.0       51.065.0        51,365.0
AForfs 05.400.0..     ....                      .    ...420.                                                             420.            020.0          420.2           420.           400.0           420.0          428.0           420.           420.0û
OflOra Pereeerao 14/.~~~~.  .. ..    .490o.5                                                       400.0          400.0          480.2           460.0          40.             480.0          400.0           400.0          400.           400.
hanoîonoSLteer  Asen  257.303.0                                                                           360.0..        360.   36.0    362.0           50.0            0.              600           507             360.0300.                      360.0
Ohonflît 05/.093.0                                                   0002.0         000.0          000.0           160.0          000.0           000.0          100.0           880.0          060.0           100.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8  o"-'":'":
litre  frr PîcO Freperator,, 07/.100.0                                             300.0          SAR.0           360.7          500.0          360.0           300.0          360.0           300.0          360.0           300.0~~~~~~~~e o  .  Is "':  G.oBo.o18 _
83-oa.5.....        ...040. .....                                                     , .0          4 040.0        4.140,0        4,040.0         4 040.0        4,140.0        4,840.0         4.040~.0       4,140.0          240.40        4,000.0
0.IrO ,A  --cLte  .r.r. ..r. . .A. .o.t.a.20/.415.0                                                                535.0          555.0          535.0           535.0          335.0          535.0           555.0          532.0           535.0          525.0
haOl..too ard 60019e,ae,0 rooroOlotOoete~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~94..94.
VehOntea toioOetORfl aRA Repaira 20/.-                940.0          940.0          540<>           840.0          960.0           640.0          040.0          040.0           940.0          940.0           540.2 M    P..  94 .
Ogolo'.lOnoel RorhOt.orp 52a0.erroeroe o,.0 rapafra 02/    -           o ~~~,602.t    3,800.0         3,100.         3I,00.          3,008.0        3.106.0o       5,100.          3,066.0        5,6.             ,0.           3.060.0
ller ..looro rr.l.r. .e.r.24/.-.-                                                                              -               -              -              -             518,04.                        5.4.          15,840L.4                         -
Ford hrRodiog ood tIntAi 257.-                                           0~~~~    ~    ~~~~~~         ~~~~~     ~    ~~22.2  438.6  694.4  715.9  7l5.3 70,          715.9          758             750            759             715.9
Sos-rotai.-. ...0r..s ..                        ..    ..                             ,1~.          4.566.6        4,000.0         4,808.9        4,2.           ?5I3/A.9        4,82.9gt.     340fl. 9        .,Ag2f3.9      flfl/t9         4..t249
R,r,g   rO - A..l.a.. . .ge. .d .crorg. 77.                                                   455.0          857.5        2,0.2.          1.005.0        0,003.0        0,00.0          0,005.0        1,003.0o5.                     Io.. 1,005.0 D,~  ,),~
l,.7e ./±'.-                                                                                 2,05.        0.7.            0110          0,1.             0757          0,0.           1,2.             0757          0,2.             2750          2,2.
Ford AdOOCOnee 30/.-                                                      6~~~    ~    ~~~~~          ~~~~~~         ~~~~~ ~        ~~~4.4  03638  402.9  400.7  400.9  40.'o9  400.  40R.95        400.0          400.o9          402.9
On-oa.-.....                                         ...14,7.                                       4.240.5    20,4-97    200050                 010-59    20,025.9    200û25.9    210C258                    20005.9   2002509    0100I59
Oeed eeA Oaeolliîet 31/.-                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~163.05.  7.822.5  7,575.0  7,975.0        7,975.0         7,975.0        7.975.0          ,7.           7,973.0         7,075.0        7,975.0
Oîyloîeggtee 0010 577.-                                           -            8,20.3        ,,j~fl/Q30     ,/,,,Ag%p       ..~))/2O       ,S~Agr0          0,000.0         2,000.02,2.,P9. 2,iCl// 90                  ,~, 2Çfl3
Sh-Al.-...                                                                         .j....        ....!  ...           .1 n_2   8.012.3  6.973.0  9,9750  9975.0   9,975.0        9,97520        9597520          9-55          9~95200            _7
I- 107..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___                                                                                                                                                                               09
1/   5 fttee  eorOohoo00e  25; R-   Oea0  ro.25h, ;6OO-
V    00ofp ,oti2 Y R PetS pî7o 10h.              0Do
3/ETl, hl 0, or- rI prî-o ou  pe  lOr  mtoe
lu   Sace Ote1, O h, "Ila -20.50,oolto   000f./2
0/'  OgR"      toecnlrtrelRe rerare   0203020/o
9/4roArhlt  l20,(11  tgP.-o:yft    rroo
r2/  40   espr  i   oo
22/  4220001.1  PF eo-6er
24/  240,00  iFe- frr oA0-year.
21/  080,000 fr0 p2o.                                       k,   -I:48,25k,   -3o69.r-yFor.4   7585  k.                                     l-~
311/  22;o   rr.eotto  por ye.                     qo   f/
237  202 of Artey1eo   OtIt  per. yaarh.                      -                        g/
24/   14hlaOop00O21t97a010ed  6






MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE 1IVETOC 8 AND RURAL DEVELOP.MENT PROJECT
Pig Frogram -   Management
Cash - F10o
(lFmg '000 )
B efore           --------------------------------------------------------------------    Y ear    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Development         1              2              3               4              5               6                7-10             1              12-15             16              17-20
INFLOW
Loan for Farn Development                            -           24,595,5       24,595.0
Loan for Management Unit                            -           28,625.1        10,004.7
Repay-nt of Farm Development Loans 1/                -             -             7,830.0       15,660.0        15,660.0       15,660.0         7,830.0           -
Sales and Peyments fro-
Participants  /                        .          -            8,372.5       32,967.5       50,2T7.5        51,365.0       51,365.0         51,365.0        51,365.0         51,365.0         51,365.0         51,365.0        51,365.o
Total Inflow .  ............ .                                     61,592.6       75,397.2       65,937.5        67,025.0       67,025.0         59,195.05       51,365.0         51,365.0        51.365.0         5i,365.0         51.35.0
OUTFLOW
Loan      s 1    o Farmers     .......      .                   24.595.0   ? 4,595 O              - _
Investment Cost. ..........,210. C                                                  88o.62 o      -               -               2    '988.
Repayment of Loans. 7                        _                                   4,624.0         7,732.0        7,73-.0        7,73n. O         7.7             7,732.0          7,702.           7.73S.o          7,732.0         7,732.0
Operating C-t,.   .                                              12,787.6       33,092.2       4o0,947.1       41,504.8       4i,5s4.2   6S ,o44.8             4i,5240          64.094.5         41,5o4.8        6                41,504.8
Total Outflo-s            .                                        C1,592.8       72,191.2       48,679.1        49,236.3       49,,33.5         63,773.q        49,236.3         72,6c6.8         49,236.8         69,776.8        49,236.8
Net Caoh Flow _..                                                                  3,26.         17,258.4      17,788.2       117,(2.2         1101.   0` 1.2                       0  .01        2,128.2        (18,411.8)        2,128.2
Acruoolatedl Cash Flow       .                         -               -           3,2060 0o ,464.4              30,27.6-       5,C,;4o.   45 4 1 4 .:.;          L7,'7.2         o6,3;5.4         25,453.6    1     o,o04.8        12,170.0
/  Intereot  charge at 7.25% p.a.
2/  Sale of peanut-oil included in total revenus fro-  faroers.
j   Loan aet Fmg 53,220.1 for period of 20 y-ers, 5%               P.tereot 2.a., 0ne year grace and -apital;zed inter-nt.
Loan at Fmg 34,599.7 for period of 19 Y-ars, 5% intere9t p.a., 0ne year grace and capitalizcd intcr-ss.
J.ne 14, 1974



ANNEx12
Table 40
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services
Investment Projection
(Fmg '000)
---------- Project Year ------------               Total
1           2           3           4               Cost
INVESTMENT CATEGORY
Salaries and Allowances
Pig Production Specialistl/. . . . . . . . . . .        8,000.0      8,000.0    8,000.0        -           24,000.0
Sociologist2/  . . . .  . . . . .  . .   . . . . .      1.300.0      1,300.0    1.300.0      1.300.0        5.200
Sub-Total  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9,300.0      9,300.0    9,300.0      1,300.0       29,200
Foreign Training
Graduate Training3/. . . . . . . . . . .   . . .        2,700.0      2,700.0    2,700.0      2,700.0       10,800.0
Consultancy and Project Prearation4/.-                                 3,600.0    3,600.0      3,600.0       10,800.0
Feasibility Studies5/. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          -          3,600.0    3,600.0      3,600.0       10,800.0
Local Trainin/ . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . .         1,000.0      1,000.0    1,000.0      1,000.0        4,000.0
Investigational Work7/ . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2,700.0      2,700.0    2,700.0      2,700.0       10,800.0
8/
Project Evaluation and Monotorin .8    . . .                -          3,600.0    3,600.0      3,600.0       10,800.0
Cadastral Survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1.100.0      1,100.0    1,100.0    41.L0            4400.0
Total Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16.800.0    27.600.0   27,600.0       9.600
1/  Expatriate pig production adviser for pig program.
2/  For FAFIFAMA to assist, advice and participate in all aspects of project design, planning and
implementation.
3/  Four fellowships, each of two year's duration for overseas training and study for selected graduates in Range Management,
pig production, dairy production and Agricultural Economics.
4/  Both foreign and local consultants and other costs associated with the preparation of future projects in the livestock
sub-sector. Attention should be given particularly to dairying, pig and beef projects.
5/  To develop an overall strategy for livestock marketing, slaughtering, and processing; recommendations should include
appropriate organizational structures, optimum location of facilities and projected supplies, markets, and investoent costs.
6/  Local training of FAFIFAMA staff.
7/  Project related    investigational work including:  cheap methods of "Stylo" establishment; effect of husbandry practices
on livestock performance; cheap methoda of providing village water supplies, and management of native and improved pasture.
8/  Foreign and local consultancy and study costs needed to monitor and evaluate the project, particularly, the efficiency of
the proposed veterinary and extension service and its impact at village level, reports including recommendations should be
prepared and submitted to Government and IDA.
June 14, 1974



AM1<8213
MADAG0SCA0
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND EURAL DgV3LOPMENT PROJECO
S-nry of Annual auanîeatlt Conta
80tg'000)
YFea 1      Yef5 2      Fear 3      year b         Projeot
PeriOd
MAJUNGA PROVNCE DEV0OP5MSNT8
FAFIFAMA ifdustr
Vehiclen and Eqalpunat                         5 280         -           -           -             5,280
wAgen and Salaries                              ,o600     lo,6oo      io,6o0      îo,s6o          42,400
Other Opeeatig CGats                             90.6        986         986         986           3,624
Sob-tltl1                                  16,786      îî,806      11,580      11,580          51,306
FAFIFo Vi-i eleril' nAn Cateoniann
Buildings and Hoieiag                         28,330       6,aoo       3,000         -            37,30
CttIle li-dling Patilities                     4,500        4,500       4,580      4,500          18,000
Vehiole, ad Equip=ent                         13,300       14,           -           - _           4,700
WAnge anAd Salarias                           35,860      38,360      38,360      38,360         150,940
ApiFbl -aseinea sd druga                       2,356       4,713       6,619       8,526          22,214
Other aper-tiag COuts                          3,740       4,4C5       4,780       5,005          17,930
Sub_total                                  88,056      59,378      5T,259      56,331        o26,084
FOFAFIA     t Patra IapraVnent
EquipFent                                     30,000         -           -           -            30,000
S-ed                                           7,500       7,500       7.500       7,500          30 000
Ange, and Salarlea                             o,hao 2o0,40            2,4ho       2 400           9,600
wller Opera6in Casta                           8,o         6,ocO       6,o0o       6,o0O          24ao00
S0b-total                                  45,980      15,900      15,900      15,900          93,600
Wster Pointa Cos...t-ti-a and
Maisten.n-e Prograsa
Vahiles and Equtp=ent                         59,850      35,900      34,000      34,oOa         163,750
Co-lesot -ork                                 18,400      83,430      75,990      68,490         246,370
WAges snS inlarlan                             5,593       7,116       8,261      93406           30,376
Oth0 r S           terali4g Casa               4,61o       7,273       9,750      12,227          33,860
Sob-total                                  88,453     133,779    i2a,ao1      124,123         474,356
8ondn I=rpravfentu Andl Mainteosoor
*ProgrbAr
Vehiol-s and nulipMsat                       157 645         -           -           -           157,645
nalerialsD                                     6o500       6,500       6,500       6,500          26,0o0
Wage, aAn  Salaries                            8 646       8,646       8,646       8,646          34,584
Other Opara.tig roate                          9,650      19,040      190,40      19,040          66,770
00b-total                                 182,441      34,180      34,186      36,186         2a4,999
Rural Sohool, P-ogra,
nai1dion, anad HEnuig                         16,1o0      20,700      16,100      16,1o0          69,000
Equapacat and Supplie-                         1,750       3,750       1,750       1,750           9,000
Sob-talai                                  17,853      24,450      10,850      17,850          78,000
Mobile aealilth Units Frgrg
Dldldlga sd H00,i1E                            4,200       4,2o0       4,P00       4,200          16,800
Fahiaina, Supplies ad Sqoip-eît               16,140      16,400      16,4ho      16,400          65,600
ng.ea ad SalarIe,                                -         3.300       6,600       9,900          19 800
Ot01r Operatig Cosia                            -         2,000       4,000       6,ooo          12,000
Oul-inlal                                  20,6o0      25.900      31,200      80,500         124,200
Tala Mtau1ga PFrovinre D-velopacotl            46o,o86     30S,099     295,900     296,456       1,357,543
PILOT PROGRAM3
OM3Y Extens-in Progan-
anildilga (Sohool., H-alti Ceotara
ana Eounîng)                                 7,200       7,200         -           -            i4,400
Stolk SartAlnA Faoilltiaa                     1,800         200         -           -             2,000
Panlora Develop.ent an_ dEnsion
Control                                      4,400       5 6,o       1,200         -            11 200
FVhioIes sad Eqip=ent                         19,520      14,020         -           -            33,540
SagansbD  Salarias                             5,420       9,340       9,340       9,340          33,440
0th-r Op-erAiîg Conta                          9,020      06,710      08,030      14,800          58,o80
Sub-totAI                                  47 360      53,070      28,833      03,400         152,66o
Village imare FatteninR Frogra,
Steer P-rrh-sa                                22,400      12,400      22,400         -            b7,200
Operstig CoatI                                 2,960       2,360       2,960         -             8,880
Sub-totAI                                  25,360      25,360      25,360         -            76,081
Pilot Pig PrnraEn
Euildings And St-ck EAndIing
FA-iliti-a                                13,750      13,750         -           _            27,500
P1i PorrOases                                3,200       3,200        __           _             t,400
Oper-tiug Costs                              7,645       7,645         -           -            15,290
020-total                                  24,595      i4,595         -           _            49,190
Puil1in666a,iaoousnlo                        8,300       2,400         -           -            10,700
Veaile, and Equip=ent                       15,910      7.480          -           -            23,390
OPeritig  -sta                              4,4y5         125         -           -             4,540
SOb-tntl                                 28,6o5       1O,0Z5         -           -            38,630
Ttaia Pilot Progran,                           025,946    I11,lJ        54,30       23,400         316,600
ToUoNICAL  EREVICES                               16,82F 0   2,éoo        27,600      19,600           91,600
TOTAL                                           600,806      445,719     377.032     339,456       1,765,703
Phyai-ol C-ttiageîria- (1l0)                   60,283       44,S7R      37,71f9     33 ,9          176,571
Pri-e Coatirgannîe, (12%)                     153.018     180.075     216.418     258.665          808.206
TOTAL PEM ECT COST                               816.227    673         631.87      632,067       2,5055
Frac 14, 1974



MNNEI 14
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIHATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSENENTS
IDA  Fiscal Year                      Cumulative Disbursoment
and Quarter                             at end of Quarter
(US$ 000)
1974/75
December 31, 197414
March 31, 1975
June 30, 1975
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                240
December 31, 1975                                 600
March 31, 1976                                  1,554
June 30, 1976                                   2,274
1976/77
September 30, 1976                              2,983
December 31, 1976                               3,574
March 31, 1977                                  3,927
June 30, 1977                                  4,515
1977/78
September 30, 1977                              5,350
December 31, 1977                               5,889
March 31, 1978                                  6,429
June 30, 1978                                   6,969
1978/79
September 30, 1978                              7,506
December 31, 1978                               7,999
March 31, 1979                                  8,484
June 30, 1979 2/                                8,965
1979/80
September 30, 1979                              9,480
December 31, 1979 3/                            9,600
1/  Expected date of effectiveness.
2/ Expected date of Project completion.
3/ Closing date.
June 17, 1974



MADAOASCAR
V15IA11E II20ESTOC1 AND lLRAI. DEVR1nOMENT PROJ.CT
FinanCial Rates et Retun
12tsg'000)
Before      ------------ ---------------------------------------  ----  Year  -----------------------------------------------------------
Model                                   Devlelpment      1          2           3           4          5           6           7          8           9          0-19         20
village Herd - 200 co.w  -
Veteriaary and Eatension Service
Sales                                      t.030.8    1,093.7    1,130.7    1,868.o    1,245.6    1,245.6    1,343.6    1,405.4    1,405.4    1,503.4    1,503.4    1,843 5
Operating Ctfts                              154.9       187.3      187.6       187.6       188.2      i88.4       188.4       188.5      188.5       188.5       188.5      '162.5 
Investment -                                  -           26.9        6.4        46o          2.4       -           -           -          -           -           _           _
Incretental Financial Balance                 -           (3.5)      52.8       792.4       171.0      173.3       271.2      332.9       332.9       430.9       430.9      797.1
Finascial Rate of Rettrn       >   100%
Village Herd - 200 Ctss -
Pord Develepment
Sales                                      1,038.9    1,093.7    1,130.7    1,868.o    1,245.6    1,245.6    1,343.6    l,4o5.4    1,405.4    1,503.4    1,503.4    1,843.51/
o0erating Costs                              154.9       187.3      212.7       212.7      213.3       213.5       213.5      213.6       213.6       213.6       213.6       187.6  /
Investment                                    -          887.4        6.4         4.o         2.4             -           -           -          -           -                 -
Increstental   araFi.cisl Balance             -         (8(64.9)     27.7       767. 4      i46.o      148.2       246.2       307.9      307.9       405.9       405.9       772.0
Flnancial Rate of Retu,rn          33.70%
Village Herd - 200 Coes
tE5Low OeLl Devse tpsment
Sales                                      1,038.8    1,093.7    1,130.7    1,868.o    1,245,6    1,245.6    1,343.6    1,4o5.4    1,405.4    1,503.4    1,503.4    1,843 5 ./
operating Clsta                              154.9       187$3      214.7       214.7       215.3      215.5       215.5       215.6      215.6       215.6       215.6       189.6
Invesstent                                    -          706.9        6.4         4.o         2.4       -           -           -           -          -           -           -
Incremental Financial Balance                 -         (684.4)      25.7       765.4       144.0      146.2       2h4.2       305.9      305.9       403.9       403.9       770.0
Fi nsasial Rate cf Rate,rn         41.34%
Village Xerd - 200 CeeS
Boeeflee Jevesopment
Sales                                      1,038.8    1,093.7    1,130.7    i,868.o    1,245.6    1,245.6    1,343.6    1,405.4    1,4o5.4    1,503.4    1,503 4    1,843.5 Â
Operating lests                              154.9       187.3      244.5       244.5       245.1      245,5       245.3       245.4      245.4       245.4       245.4       219.4 .
Inves1,ment                                   -        1,275.9        6.4         4 o         2.4
Tncremental Financial BRlance                 -       (1,253.4)       (4.1)     735.6       114.2      i16.4       214.4       276.1      276.1       374.1       374.1       740.2
Financial Rate of RetAtc           21.62'
Omby Fxtension Aograta -
Village ModelV
Sales                                      1,520.90   2,128.4    3,036.1    4,122.3    4,248.        4,291.5    4,344.5    4,387.0    4,387.0    4,466.2    4,466.2    4,636.2
Operating Ctsts                               -          442.1      932.5    1,285.0    1,646.1    1,698.5    1,700.0    1,700.9    1,701.5    1,701.5    1,701,5    1,701.5
Investment                                    -          823.2      675.5        30.0        -           -          -           -           -           -           -
Incremental Financial Salance                 -         (657.6)    (102.8)   1,286.4    1,081.1    1,062,1    1,123.6    1,166.i    1,164.6    1,243.8    1,243.8    1,413.8
Financial Rate of Return           88.43%
Village Share Fattening Progras
Sales                                         -           -       3,024.0    3,024,0    3,110.4    3,196.8    3,196.8    3,196.8    3,196.8    3,196.8    3,196.8    3,196 8
Operating Costs                               -           90.     2,376.0    2,376.0    2,376.0    2,376.0    2,376.0    2,376.0    2,376,0    2,376.o    2,376:2             136:0
Investment                                    _        2,536.0                               -                 -          -           -                 -                      -
Incremental Financial Balance                 -       (2,626.0)      648.o      648.o       734.4       820.8       820.8      82o.8       820S 8      S2o.8       820.8    3,060.8
Financial Rate of Return           28.22e
Pig Farm - 6 soes
Sales                                         -          L68.3    1,565.5    i,6o4.o    l,6o0.o    i,6o4.o    i,6o4.o    1,604.0    1,604,0    1,6o4.o    1,604.0    2,196.0 V
Operating Costs                               -          474.1    1,232.3    1,238.5    1,238.5    1,238.5    1,238.5    1,238.5    1,238.5    1,238.5    1,238.5    1,238.5
Investment                                    -          678.0        -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -                       -
Incremental Financial Balance                 -         (983.8)      333.2      365.5       365.5       365.5       365.5      365.5       365.5       365.5       365.5       957.8
Financial Rate of Retern           36.28%
_/ Including incremental herd value.
21 Exclucing cattle purchase.
5/ Total tnveanaenn in vteteinary and etension service  divided by  c...er -f sillage, (1,860).
March 5, 1974



MADAGAsCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCE ANA RURAL DEVELOPESIT PROJECT
GoveranFent Increoatalu TACch-Flc froc P-rlect
>Rhg'08G>
Projeot PMriod
Yi         Y2         Y3         Y4    Sob-Total      Y5         Y6         Y7         Y8         y9       YV0        Yil       Y12       Y13       Y14        Y15       Y16       Y17       Y18       Y19        Y20
1. IDA Fuads                                431,075    310,170    258,670    238,475  1,238,390
2. Intrest and Prin-ipal Repsoeente
on Ionae   FEa  PI    P-o                           1,84o      3,680      7,333    12,853      9,146     10,959     10,959    10,959      10,959    10,959    1,59    10,959    10,959    7,306         3,653
_ Pig ProgrOa                                         4,624      7,732      7,732     20,088    7,732       7,732      7,732      7730       7,730     7,732     7,732     7,730     7,732    7,73        7,732     7,732     7,73      7,732     7,732     7,732
3. Rnepnynent of Veterirary Services . /                                                           15,057     30,267     45,505     6;9022    61,542    61,942    62,333    62 463    62,533    62,570    62,588    62o588    62,588    625388    62,588   62,568
4. Repaynent of Water Pointe Mainte.n.nc                   763      4,639      8,516     13,918   12,392      12,392     12,392     12,392     12,392    12,392    12,392    12,392    12,392    12,392    12,392    12,392    12,392    12,392    12,392    12,392
5. Daties on .. ported Projeot Eq,pip-ent
and MaterGale  2/                       63,539     26,039     25,367     26,374    141,319   13,833      20,787     15,748     14,083     14,083    14,083    13,791    15, 73    14 o36    14 ,66    13 803    20 843    15 752    14 o86    14 o86    13 803
6. Inre.ental Tan Rev nue 3/                  2,178      8,892    120,044     59,281    190,395   59,281      74,ilm     88,922     88,900    103,742   103,742   103,742   103,742   103,741   103,742   103,742   103,742   103,742   103,742   103,742   103,742
Total Canh Infîfl                    496,792    352,328    420,132    347.711  1,616,963   1t7,441    156,239    181,258    195,110    210,450   21o.85o   210,949   213,041   21,444  207,828   203,910   207,297   202.206   200,540   200h0 2J00,297
B. Outflow
1. M3unga prov4nne Develnts 4               454,731    3030123    20 ,347    300 351 1,352 6,4   114,403    117,682    106,602    104,702    104,702   102,702   117,982  16,6o2   104,702  104,700   102,702   717,982   1o6,602   104,702   104,702   102,702
2. O~eÎY GAt .n.ln P-ogrea                   47,360     53,070     08,830     03,480    152,6680
3. Share Fattening Progra=                   25,360     25,360     25,360                76,080
4. Pig Progrnn
_ Loang for Management                    28,625     10,005                           38.638
- Loans, for  arF DOevelopeP-t            24,595     24,595                           49,190
5 Techtat-l  nern-n                          16,800     27,600     27,6oe 0    9,6o0    9î160D
Subt2-tal                            597,471    44o,843    379,137    343,351 1760 114_402    117,682    106,600    104,702    104,702   102,702   117,982   106,602   104,700   104.702   102,702   117.982   .o6o6Ce   104,70e   10.l.7o
C. An.eal Net C.Sh Ploe bfer IDA C-redit
Sereine                                 (100,679)   (88,515)    40,995      4,360              (3,039)   38,557      74,656      90,408    105,748   108,148    92,967   106,439   106,742   103,126   101,208    89,315    95,604    95,838    95,838    97,355
6. Srvice of IDA Credit
Ca,nitcent charge                        3,233       5,559      7,499      9,288    25,579     9,288      9,288 98              9,288      9,288     9,288     9,195     9,102      9,002     8,916     8,824     8,731     8, 638    8,545      8,452     8,359
A.n.uity                                   -                           -         -         -          -                -          -         -       12,384    12,3B4    12,384    12,384    12,384    12,384    12,384    12,384    12,384    12,384    12,384
D. Anol Net Cash Fl. nfter IDA              (109,9102  (94,074)     33496      (4.928)             (6,249)    29,269     65.368      81,1i0    96,460    86,476    71,388    84,953    85,349    81,826    80,000    68,200    74,582    74,909    75,oo2    76,812
Credit Servine
E. Ce1.tine Ncr CRsh FI-w                     (103,912) (107,986>    164,490   (169,418)            (175,667>  (146,390>   (81,030)        90   96,550   183,026   254,414   339,367   424,716   5o6,542   586,542   654,742   729,324   804,233   879,235   956,o47
Tnc1~ cot ff oocîes  nA dngeao_11 -e Village ehar- off btoU  vctclaY eeeoe    Peratig nost, and 75% off FR810AMA thadV0tcr operatÎns oosts. Fer --y8 glee  11-
re-sycocote etarl tethe flfUR year of participdtin  in th.  chee    Village,  c pth-d et th. rte n 465 p_ y,&  Oe  tAe fow yca- of tAs Prejht.
R't..           B~~- tldisigo an  Houeiogo      15%off-en  o? ieaportd -eîiatl'î,
C Rattle h_ ndi Housit          15% off cet cf icported FBterla
-Vaccine  nGd Rnge            30% of ncet Off teeported atot
VehOcles operatieg cnet.:    20% of cnet of irported mate'ial,
Fzstt ad 1 500 peiten     ern1        Innlud   veet  ertt, licnce txes for ane  cattle trader  and tncllaehr, h       acht tan,         ht-  te,   et ta
4   Vciode rond  anintcoancc 0c_r 20 y-r, a, yoel a, shool anad health unit, OPerating enete noer esc perid.
5]  3/4l  f 1% eerric- change on oco-unt  tsta rsed and nutctantng
J-o i4, 1974



ANNEX 17
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Incremental Output
1.        The Project is estimated to increase cattle production by about
70,000 animals by 1986. Incremental beef production is estimated at 10,500
m. tons a year at full development, incremental production of pork at 300 m.
tons a year, and crops and poultry valued at about US$0.45 million a year.
Economic Rate of Return
2.        The economic analysis i8 based on the following assumptions:
(a) ProJect life is 20 years;
(b) All Project operating and investment costs, with the
exception of health and education and technical services
not directly related to the Project, were included in
the rate of return calculation;
(c) Foreign exchange costs and benefits (exportable beef)
are valued at the prevailing exchange rate;
(d)  The economic cost of labor in certain categories was
assumed to be zero as this family and village labor,
which is minor, would not be otherwise employed.
For construction of roads, vater points and buildings
the cost of unskilled labor is valued at prevailing
wage rates, which are assumed to reflect the economic
cost of labor;
(e) Production is valued at prices paid to producers,
increased by 25% to reflect changes in producer prices
resulting from phasing out price controls on meat, and
thereafter adjusted to reflect changes in international
beef prices through 1980.
3.        Based on these assumptions the economic rate of return was estimated
to be 69%. The calculations are given in Table 1; the basic data for this
Table was obtained from Annex 12. The rate of return was also calculated
using two alternative assumptions: that beef prices were not adjusted to
reflect the removal of price controls; and that foreign exchange costs and
benefits are valued at Fmg 270 instead of Fmg 215 per US$1 to reflect the
scarcity value of foreign exchange. ITnder these assumptions the rates of
return would be 61% and 71% respectively.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
4.        The sensitivity of these rates of return was tested under several
unfavorable assumptions. The results of this analysis are presented in
Table 2.
Net Foreign Exchange Earnings
5.        The net foreign exchange benefits are the revenues from the incre-
mental export of beef and beef products minus the foreign exchange content
of investment and operating costs (Table 3). The project would produce about
8,800 m. tons of beef annually (carcass weight) for export by 1986. Based
on an average export price of US$1,490 per m. ton and the annual net foreign
exchange earnings by 1986 would be US$10.3 million. Details are shown in
Table 3.
April 8, 1974



8c 1otaacfatt
1       2            3            4            5            6            7            a           9           10           il           12         13-14          13            16          17          16-19          »
1. NIT PhI'
îo tdl EccOts
etalla - tajoua   . . .....           26,078      7n O "a  469,461         612,535      667.726      791,151      529,743      608,844     734,495      813,566      862,106      910,616      910,616      910,616       110,616      910,616      910.616    1,577,212
tottî. - 816110 lieut                  31,026     63,410      106,656      112.386      108,676      111,568      113.482      114,532  115,912         117,9        11,96        117,496      117.0        11,96         117.496      117,696      lTf 117.4    15,866
Pis .                                   2,016     34,120       67 156       746423       78,743       78,743       78,743       78.743      78,743       78,743       78,743       78.743       78,743        78.743       78,743       78,743       78,763       90,800
?-lto                                    350         876        1,052        1,032   O     ,012        12052        1,032        1,052       1,052        1,0522       1,052         1,052        1.052        1,052        1.052        1,032         1,052        1,032
taspa.1 3.248                                    47.785       78 490Af     92.225       96.625       96.625       96.625       96.625      Jjffl 625    ff625        Jj4jj5       ff.hM        96.625      9.....t.ff 625ILU        ....f,I      . *....5.     ,,,..M.h
Total     fti .                         72.676    217.107       749.615      892.619      972.822   1.079.139       819.645      899.592    1.026.827    1.107.312    1.15.8022   1.264.532    1.204.532    1.362.55       2    1.204.532 1.2044532        3l      S    9
Iso.stad  Coda
ITat. .t to.4 .                        94,331    357,337      296,573      257,330         -                  -            -            -            -            -                                                          -                          -
cteot   t.. 26,581    6_5727                                 11_6436    1j_f30          214.014      258... 1     2349961      212.275      212.275      210.557      240.302      225.027      212.275      210.517      257.. 7    .027   .iJ 2 75 .557
lotl ta ..                                              0 .4 4. .1.        .  . .,...     214.914      258.610      224.991      212.275      212.275     210.557       260.302     225.027       212.275      218.537      257. 727    _ IL         _ 1          _
I,,er,lsta1 _st Cah pscu  . . .        (440,236)   (205,ç57)    336,606      496,983      7380         03.529       594 654      687.317      814.552     5955          895.720     979.705       962.257      963.975   ... .80S        979,ia       -.tuS 1zr9a0n
hte~~~~~ of .eo.  .  .J           60S
n. PnW -E
Total    f..t. .72,676    233,777                               862,802    18036,855    1,104,508    1,217,272      944,335    1,039,860    1,191,796    1,288,144    1,346,103    1,406,855    1,404,053    1,404,055    1,4068       1,484,033     1,640053    2,217,503
otal C..tt   .520,912    423004                                 413,009      395,636      232,074      277,916      245.515      232,799      232,799      231,081      280,825      245,531      232,79       231,081      278,251      265,521       732,799  #    2,081
IaacotalRatd _ta       - c. . . . .   444J U 7-u&                   a                     872.434      939.326      698.820      807.041      958,997    1.057,063    1.065.278    1,158,502    1.171.254    1.172.972    1,1253802    1.158.502      1J 2L4        9MffJ22
ht. ofbt ......... .. .. -69S
rota  oftc   .......  .  .               94,095    263,976    1,406,022    1,321,686    1,290,225    1,425,443    1,097,918    1,212,525    1,394,871    1,510,498    1,580,040    1,649,580    1,649,580    1,649,580    1,648,589    1.669,51      1.649,580    2,623,96
Total C      .tt. .      .               59,04     477,796      471,829      4>3,339      248,568      302,267      264,183      249,575      249,575      268,655      305.449      264,225       249.606      247,536      302.670      264.225       249,60   247,336
I....tal fct Cash Flu                 _    _ 25949    (213.820)  534j93      748.347    1.041.657    1.123.176      8337.15      962.920   1Â145,296   1241.833    1.274.591    1.385.355    1.32.974   1I4021 0          1.4I3660    1.391  51      L..974    1.376.42
taf ot. . . .  . . . . .               71
1/ Ctti. poic-  teaaad by 25S.
oe.  adfm  ts   cal i fitn vau-d at 270 PM pot U009.0.
April 10. 1974



ANNEX 17
Table 2
MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Sensitivity AÂalysis
1/
Rate of Return %
I               II             III
Current    Market Prices-Beef    Shadow 2/
Market Price    Prices Adijuwted    Prices
1.  Economic Rate of Return (base)       60              69              71
2.  Costs Increased by 10%   . . .       54              62              64
3. Costs Increased by 20%  . . .         49              56              58
4. Benefits Reduced by 10% . . .         53              61              63
5. Benefits Reduced by 20% . . .         45              54              46
Y/ See Table 1.
2/ For foreign exchange.
April 8, 197h



MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Output and Foreign Exchange Earnings
Incremental         Marketed                 Marketed             Total Marketed          Export          Price per,            Export        Foreign Exgyange           Net Foreign Exchange
Year         Marketed        Beef Produced            Beef Produced            Beef Produced         Surplus_/       Ton Exported-l        Earnings             CCosoata/Earnings)
Supplyl/       Breeding herds2/        Steer fattening/
(No. of Animais)       (m tons)                 (m tons)               (m tons)              (m tons)         (fmg '000)          (fmg '000)       (fmg '000)            (fmg '000)        (US$ '000)
1973            -                    -                                  -                     -                             300                                  _ 
1974            -                    -                                              -                   -                   296                -                 -
1975            1,455                 218                      40                      258                206               291             60,062           331,950             (271,888)            (1,265)
1976            4,425                 664                      90                      754                603               287            173,118           256,900             (83,782)             (  390)
1977           30,705              4,606                      150                   4,756               3,805               282          1,072,954           230,770              842,184              3,917
1978           41,425              6,214                      170                   6,384               5,107               278          1,419,802           216,826            1,202,976              5,595
1979           49,320               7,398                     180                    7,578              6,062               274          1,661,098            40,575            1,620,523              7,537
1980           58,855              8,828                      180                   9,008               7,206               270          1,945,728            49,286            1,896,442              8,821
1981           46,975               7,046                     180                    7,226              5,781               270          1,560,816            43,109            1,517,707              7,059
1982           51,975               7,796                     180                    7,976              6,381               270          1,722,816            40,736            1,682,080              7,824
1983           59,350              8,903                      180                   9,083               7,266               270          1,961,928            40,736           1,921,192               8,936
1984           64,350              9,653                      180                   9,823               7,866               270          2,123,928            40,404           2,083,524               9,691
1985           66,825             10,024                      180                  10,204               8,163               270          2,204,064            49,852           2,154,212              10,020
1986           69,300             10,395                      180                  10,575               8,460               270          2,284,200            43,115           2,241,085              10,424
1987           69,300             10,395                      180                  10,575               8,460               270          2,284,200            40,736            2,243,464             10,435
1988           69,300             10,395                      180                  10,575               8,460               270          2,284,200            40,736            2,243,464             10,435
1989           69,300             10,395                      180                  10,575               8,460               270          2,284,200            40,406            2,243,794             10,436
1990           69,300             10,395                      180                   10,575              8,460               270          2,284,200            49,351            2,234,849             10,395
1991           69,300             10,395                      180                  10,575               8,460               270          2,284,200            43,115            2,241,085             10,424
1992           69,300             10,395                      180                   10,575              8,460               270          2,284,200            40,736            2,243,464             10,435
1993           69,300             10,395                      180                   10,575              8,460               270          2,284,200            40,736            2,243,464             10,435
1994           69,300             10,395                      180                   10,575              8,460               270          2,284,200            40,406            2,243,794             10,436
1/  Annex 12, Table 1
2/  Average weight at sale 300 kg; kilo/carcass conversion 50%
3/  50% of weight gained during period of fattening; Annex 12, Table 28.                                                                                                                                  p >
4/  80% of incremental meat production exported
5/  Average price per ton FOB, CDW carcass.                                                                                                                                                              (D
6/  50% of project investment costs, 157, of incremental operating costs                                                                                                                                    H






MADAGASCAR
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Minister of Rural
;                                              Devel opment
FAF IFAMA  1  Board                                          Secretary
of Dir ctors                                                  General
Agricultural       Drco   fDrco                                                                                                                  ietro               ietro              Director of
Training            PrgasFAF IFAMA                          Lirestock                                                                             gr-ic-u -  ture   eurao \ofk           Water and
Service              rormLveocAgiutr                                                                                                                                RuriWrsForests
<   I                L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ODEMO     Research          ~~~~Veterinary        Extension           Fisheries               [     1Central and                     Central and         Central and
ODEMO  Research  Service     Service             Service                                  ~~~~~~~~~Provincial   Provincial          Provincial
Service  Service    Service                  [     j         ~~~~~~~~     ~~Services  Services         Services
Provincial              l
Rtons              Livestock        _  _                       1/   FAFIFAMA-Livestock development unit
Services                                          Broken lines denote indirect control.                               Worid Bank-84921R)






IBRD 10854
sir  44*  44                       4e                                  50r       JANUARY 1974
-12                   MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                                    12t
DIEGO-SUAREZ
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA                                                                                                                /
Mojungo Province Development                                                         NOSSI-BE                  MbIobe
'   Sub-prefectures Receiving                                 ,                                                   4    )
Intensified Veterinory Service                                                               I             j                  Voherror
Pilot Development Programs - Mlddle West                 J                                             r 'o( o     
-14             OMBY Stote Ranches                                                                     '                                                            14
Bituminous surfaced roods                                                                                                       =Srmbovo
Ail weothner roods                                                                  4         _,         beore              _J
Raliroads                       6   Capital                                   AnAndopo
Province boundories              3  Province copitols
Prefeclure boundorles            o  Chief town !A prefeCtures                                                                       Anttisocihy  S   -  AtirlhG
Sub-pr,fecture boundories lsh- lsia sVt 0,en 0y)                                                                               +
4     Ail weather airports
O      20      100    050    200    250
KILOMETER5
I6*
Mozambique      'O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onnr
Besolomp >                                                     0Tootnn              oorernoI n
-IVf                      Mintirono                                                                                                                               lI
t'--' ,>  _ /t be5?  A rb.                T TAMATAVE
Ch a n                                             Ton e               i Ts 'n,                                                      / nkdv,Ia  r
-20M onds                                                    T                 Antsirabe                                                    O ce  an               20*
MorondoM
AIA~~~~~orom0                  Beror CnaIoho
22|                                                                                                                                                                22-
pAnk-zboo/
\  4           g   /              ahl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hbe          hpn
k   Skrha,           7  
Farofongona               Dk      do, e'ronrr  Ol rra do -ot
\wrn  n,uo  r'zouwo by ri.r
9 \ { J / ~~~~~~~~AFICA 
-2e~~~w                                                  boobW                                                Oean          f        ,
k.t.~.
MADAASCAR
4,2' 4?                                                                                                  If



