CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 506 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(AMENDED)
(Village Livestock and Rural
Development Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 25, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(AMENDED)
AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 1977, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
MADAGASCAR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) Pursuant to a development credit agreement
(Village Livestock and Rural Development Project) dated August 21,
1974 between the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called
the 1974 Agreement), the Association made a development credit to
the Borrower in an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine
million six hundred thousand dollars ($9,600,000) to assist in the
financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to the 1974
Agreement, on the terms and conditions set forth in the 1974
Agreement;
(B) Pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 76-103 dated
March 12, 1976, the Borrower substantially amended the statutes of
FAFIFAMA, the principal agency of the Borrower responsible for the
implementation of the project described in Schedule 2 to the 1974
Agreement by (1) dissolving FAFIFAMA and reestablishing it as a
"state farm" operating in accordance with the Borrower's Decrees
Nos. 71-354 and 73-255, dated July 13, 1971 and August 31, 1973
respectively, and (2) merging FAFIFAMA with OVOMA, a Madagascar


﻿-2-
corporation established on June 15, 1972 for the purpose of
fattening cattle and marketing meat in the Borrower's territory;
and
(C) As a result of the changes referred to in paragraph
(B) of this Preamble, the Borrower and the Association have
agreed to amend the 1974 Agreement as now in force and effect
and to substitute for that Agreement a new Development Credit
Agreement incorporating such amendments and to be known as the
Development Credit Agreement (Amended) (Village Livestock and
Rural Development Project);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 12.01 to
12.04 thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "FAFIFAMA" means the State Farm FAFIFAMA, an
Etablissement Public A Caract&re Industriel et Commercial of
the Borrower, established and operating under the Borrower's
Decree No. 76-103 dated March 12, 1976, as such Decree may be
amended from time to time by the Borrower;
(b) "Livestock Development Departments" means FAFIFAMA's
departments responsible for livestock development in the Borrower's
Majunga Province;


﻿(c) "Commercial Department" means FAFIFAMA's D6partement de
Commercialisation et d'Exploitation responsible for the commercial
livestock fattening and marketing activities previously carried
out by OVOMA;
(d) "OMBY" means the Ranch State Farm OMBY, an Etablissement
Public of the Borrower, established and operating under the
Borrower's Decree No. 69-017 dated January 16, 1969 as such Decree
may be amended from time to time by the Borrower;
(e) "ODEMO" means Op6ration pour le D6veloppement du Moyen
Ouest, a department of the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
Rural Development;
(f) "BTM" means the Borrower's National Rural Development
Bank, established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 76-046,
dated December 27, 1976;
(g) "FAFIFAMA Project Funds Agreement (Amended)" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and FAFIFAMA
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the approval of the Association;
(h) "OMBY Financing Agreement (Amended)" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and OMBY pursuant to
Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the approval of the Association;


﻿- 5 -
(i) "BTM Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into be-tween the Borrower and BTM pursuant to Section
3.01 (f) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time with the approval of the Association;
(j) "Zone of Activity" means the area in which FAFIFAMA
operates and such area includes the Prefectures of Majunga
(excluding Majunga Municipality) and Maintirano and the
Sub-Prefectures of Port Berger and Mampikony of the Prefecture
of Antsohihy; and
(k) "Fokonolona" means any of the political and
administrative subdivisions of the Borrower existing at the
village community level.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
(Amended) set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million six hundred thousand
dollars ($9,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such other later date as the Association shall establish.


﻿The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April
1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 1984, and ending April 1,
2024, each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A to C
of the Project through FAFIFAMA, Part D of the Project through its
Ministry of National Education, Part E of the Project through its
Ministry responsible for Public Works, Part F of the Project through
its Ministry responsible for Health, Parts G (i) and G,(ii) of the
Project through OMBY, Parts G (iii) and G (iv) of the Project
through ODEMO, Part H through its Ministry responsible for Rural
Development and Part I through its Ministry responsible for Rural
Development in cooperation with its Ministry of Finance, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and livestock practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause its Ministries responsible for
Public Works, Health and National Education to cooperate
effectively with FAFIFAMA in the execution of Parts D, E and F of
the Project, respectively.


﻿- 11 -
to participating farmers for the execution of
Part G (iv) of the Project on terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association (including inter alia interest at
the rate of seven and one-fourth per cent
(7-1/4%) per annum); and
(iii) an amount equivalent to not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000) to be utilized by ODEMO
for the management of Part G (iv) of the Project on
terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association; and
(g) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
FAFIFAMA Project Funds Agreement (Amended), the OMBY Financing
Agreement (Amended) and the BTM Financing Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the FAFIFAMA
Project Funds Agreement (Amended) or the OMBY Financing Agreement
(Amended) or the BTM Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 12 -
(h) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
(Amended), the Borrower shall cause:
(i) FAFIFAMA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the FAFIFAMA Project Funds Agreement
(Amended);
(ii) OMBY to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the OMBY Financing Agreement (Amended); and
(iii) BTM to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the BTM Financing Agreement,
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to
be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable FAFIFAMA,
OMBY and BTM to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist FAFIFAMA in the
execution of intensive veterinary service, the Borrower shall
cause FAFIFAMA to employ (i) not later than June 30, 1977 or such
later date as the Association shall agree, an animal production
advisor, and (ii) two senior veterinarians whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 13 -
(b) In order to assist ODEMO in the execution of the pilot
pig program referred to in Part G (iv) of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause ODEMO to employ on a full-time basis an
animal production specialist whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause FAFIFAMA, in carrying out the
civil works required under Part C of the Project, to employ
contractors acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) (i) transfer to FAFIFAMA the basic responsibility for
all livestock services in the Zone of Activity and confer upon
FAFIFAMA the authority to carry out such services, (ii) make
available to FAFIFAMA the personnel of the Provincial Livestock
Service of Majunga Province working in the Zone of Activity and
fill throughout the carrying out of the Project all the positions
presently authorized for livestock services in the Zone of Activity
and confer upon FAFIFAMA's General Manager full authority over
such personnel, (iii) confer upon FAFIFAMA the authority to
utilize budget funds of the Borrower allocated for use in the


﻿- 14 -
Zone of Activity, and (iv) confer upon FAFIFAMA the authority to
utilize all facilities and equipment of the Provincial Livestock
Service in Majunga Province for the Zone of Activity, all in order
to enable FAFIFAMA to carry out Parts A through D of the Project
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time;
(b) provide FAFIFAMA, during the execution of the Project,
with qualified and experienced staff in addition to the personnel
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in accordance with a
staffing plan as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c) ensure that a qualified and experienced person will at
all times hold the position of General Manager of FAFIFAMA and any
appointment to such position will be made only after consultation
with the Association;
(d) ensure that the Borrower's Majunga Province receives
appropriate allocations of funds from the Borrower's budget
for the carrying out of livestock services and that the relation
between the funds from the Borrower's budget allocated to FAFIFAMA
and those allocated to the Provincial Livestock Service of Majunga
Province reflects the respective requirements of FAFIFAMA and
such Provincial Livestock Service; and


﻿- 15 -
(e) furnish to the Association for its review the Borrower's
directives to the Chief of the Provincial Livestock Service of
Majunga Province and the General Manager of FAFIFAMA specifying
their resepctive responsibilties in the Zone of Activity.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, and shall cause
FAFIFAMA, OMBY, BNM and ODEMO to set up and maintain, separate
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including


﻿- 16 -
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall (i) furnish to the
Association for its comments the program of the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works for the construction, improvement and
maintenance of the roads included in Part E of the Project, and
(ii) maintain said roads after the completion of the Project in
accordance with sound engineering practices.
(b) The Borrower shall obtain the approval of FAFIFAMA's
General Manager for the selection of roads referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section prior to commencement of
construction or improvement of such roads.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall establish, through its
Ministry responsible for Health, the mobile health units included
in Part F of the Project at eight centers in Majunga Province
which shall be selected in consultation with FAFIFAMA and shall
provide the necessary equipment and staff for their operation.


﻿- 17 -
Section 3.09. For the purpose of carrying out Part C of
the Project, the Borrower shall (i) cause FAFIFAMA to employ,
not later than June 30, 1977 or such later date as the Association
shall agree, for a period of about two years, a water engineer
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, and (ii)
promptly second to FAFIFAMA a hydrologist to assist the water
engineer referred to in (i) of this Section.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of FAFIFAMA,
OMBY and BTM to maintain records adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, the operations and financial condition of each of
them.
(b) The Borrower shall cause FAFIFAMA, OMBY and BTM (with
regard to ODEMO) to: (i) have the accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements, of each of them for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements of each of
them for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit


﻿- 19 -
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of FAFIFAMA, OMBY and BTM (with regard to
ODEMO), and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of FAFIFAMA,
OMBY and BTM (with regard to ODEMO) to furnish to the Association
for comments, not later than November 1 of each year or such later
date as the Association shall agree, the budgets for the following
year for their respective parts of the Project specifying the
proposed program and the expenditures related thereto for such
year.
(b) The Borrower shall cause FAFIFAMA to furnish to the
Association for its prior approval all proposed investments
(including investment programs, projected cash flows and physical
development descriptions) in, or borrowings for, any activity
relating to commercial fattening and marketing and any other
activity not included in the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that (i) the activities of
the Livestock Development Department will be administratively and
financially separated from those of the Commercial Department,
(ii) the staff assigned to the Livestock Development Department


﻿- 20 -
will not assume duties of the staff of the Commercial Department
and vice versa, and (iii) funds made available to FAFIFAMA under
the FAFIFAMA Project Funds Agreement (Amended) will not be utilized
by the Commercial Department.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause FAFIFAMA and OMBY
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practices.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause FAFIFAMA and OMBY
at all times to manage their affairs, maintain their financial
position, plan their future expansion and carry on their
operations, all in accordance with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural and livestock practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
qualified and competent staff.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause FAFIFAMA and OMBY
at all times to take all such action as shall be necessary on
their part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and
privileges which are necessary or useful for the purpose of
carrying out their obligations under the Project, and under the
FAFIFAMA Project Funds Agreement (Amended) and the OMBY Financing
Agreement (Amended), respectively.


﻿- 21 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause FAFIFAMA and OMBY
at all times to operate, maintain, renew and repair the facilities,
equipment and machinery necessary or useful for the carrying
out of the Project in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices.
Section 4.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause FAFIFAMA:
(a) to obtain title to all goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit free and clear of all encumbrances; and
(b) to refrain from creating or maintaining any lien on the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as security for
any debt contracted for the purposes of the Commercial Department.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to (i) maintain vaccine production and research services at
satisfactory levels of scientific competence, (ii) provide said
services with adequately trained and experienced staff, and (iii)
produce adequate quantities of vaccine to meet the needs of the
Project without reducing the supplies required for other
vaccination programs in the territory of the Borrower.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for approval the proposals and terms of reference for overseas
training programs, Project related research, Project monitoring
and evaluation, and preparation of follow-up projects included
in Part H of the Project.


﻿- 22 -
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall, through its Ministry
of Mines, provide FAFIFAMA with adequate technical support in
addition to the services of the engineer referred to in Section
3.09 of this Agreement, to enable FAFIFAMA to carry out the
construction and maintenance of the water facilities included in
Part C of the Project.
Section 4.12. The Borrower shall provide, through its
Ministry responsible for National Education, the teachers required
for the schools established under Part D of the Project.
Section 4.13. For the purpose of carrying out the study
referred to in Part I of the Project, the Borrower shall (i)
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association; (ii) not later than December 31, 1977 or such
later date as the Association shall agree, furnish to the
Association for its review the results and recommendations
of such study; (iii) not later than June 30, 1978 or such later
date as the Association shall agree, inform the Association
of its proposed program to put into effect such recommendations;
and (iv) thereafter, from time to time, but not less than once a
year, consult with the Association on the adequacy of such
program.


﻿- 23 -
Section 4.14. The Borrower shall formulate, in consultation
with the Association, and promptly take specific measures for
the recovery of as large a portion of the costs of the various
services provided by the Project as shall be reasonable having due
regard to the incentives and capacity to pay of livestock
producers.


﻿- 24 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) A default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant, agreement or obligation on the part of the Borrower
or FAFIFAMA under the FAFIFAMA Project Funds Agreement (Amended).
(b) A default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant, agreement or obligation on the part of the Borrower
or of OMBY under the OMBY Financing Agreement (Amended).
(c) A default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant, agreement or obligation on the part of the Borrower
or of BTM under the BTM Financing Agreement.
(d) The Borrower's Decree No. 76-103, dated March 12,
1976 or FAFIFAMA's Cahier des Charges and its Annex dated March 1,
1977, or the Borrower's Decree No. 69-017, dated January 16, 1969
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability
of FAFIFAMA or OMBY (i) to carry out their respective functions
and responsibilities under the Project or (ii) to carry out any
of their respective obligations under the FAFIFAMA Project Funds
Agreement (Amended) or the OMBY Financing Agreement (Amended),
respectively.


﻿- 25 -
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of FAFIFAMA, OMBY or BTM or for the suspension
of the operations of any of them.
(f) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that FAFIFAMA, OMBY or BTM will be able
to perform its respective obligations under the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and FAFIFAMA or
OMBY, as the case may be; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d) or paragraph
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 26 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date of this Agreement
Termination of the 1974 Agreement
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall not become effective
until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been
furnished to the Association that:
(i) the execution and delivery of this Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(ii) the execution and delivery of the FAFIFAMA Project
Funds Agreement (Amended) on behalf of the Borrower
and FAFIFAMA, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and
(iii) the execution and delivery of the OMBY Financing
Agreement (Amended) on behalf of the Borrower and
OMBY, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
Section 6.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to Section 6.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to


﻿- 27 -
the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association or a
certificate satisfactory to the Association of a competent
official of the Borrower, showing:
(a) that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the FAFIFAMA Project Funds Agreement (Amended) has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and FAFIFAMA, respectively, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and FAFIFAMA in accordance with its
terms; and
(c) that the OMBY Financing Agreement (Amended) has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and OMBY, respectively, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and OMBY in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. (a) This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date on which the Association dispatches to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 6.01.
(b) Upon the Effective Date of this Agreement, the 1974
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
terminate.


﻿- 28 -
Section 6.04. (a) If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by August 31, 1977, this Agreement and all
obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless
the Association, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such date.
(b) If this Agreement shall terminate pursuant to the pro-
visions of paragraph (a) hereof, the 1974 Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not been
executed.
Section 6.05. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b)
of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement (Amended) shall
terminate or on a date seventeen years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 29 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower;
Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare des Finances
et du Plan
Antananarivo
Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Cable address:
MINFIN
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 30 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Norbert Rakotomala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael Wiehen
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and                                    100% of foreign
equipment                                      expenditures or
85% of local
expenditures
(a) Road Con-               600,000
struction
and Main-
tenance
(Part E of
the Proj-
ect)
(b) Other Equip-            620,000
ment, Parts A
to D, and F
and H of the
Project
(FAFIFAMA)
(c) Other Equip-             75,000
ment, Parts G
(i) and G (ii)
of the Project
(OMBY)


﻿- 32 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(d) Other Equip-             55,000
ment, Parts G
(iii) and G (iv)
of the Project
(ODEMO/BTM)
(2) Civil Works                                     75%
(a) Boreholes               600,000
(b) Other Water             500,000
Development
(Part C of
the Project)
(c) FAFIFAMA                540,000
Buildings
(Parts A, D
and F of the
Project)
(d) OMBY Buildings           60,000
(Part G (i) of
the Project
(e) ODEMO/BTM               150,000
Buildings
(Part G (iv)
of the Proj-
ect


﻿- 33 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3) Agricultural                                    75%
Inputs
(a) Animal Vac-             140,000
cines, Drugs,
Seeds FAFIFAMA
(Parts A, B, G
and H of the
Project)
(b) Animal Vac-              20,000
cines, Drugs,
Seeds OMBY
(Part G (i)
and (ii) of
the Project)
(c) Animal Vac-              20,000
cines, Drugs,
Seeds BTM/
ODEMO (Part
G (iii) and
(iv) of the
Project)
(d) Steers OMBY             120,000
(Part G (ii)
of the Proj-
ect)
(e) Steers and              140,000
pigs BTM/
ODEMO (Part
G (iii) and
(iv) of the
Project


﻿34 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Technical ser-               410,000            100% of foreign
vices                                          expenditures and
80% of local ex-
penditures
(5) Incremental                                     65%
Wages, Salaries,
Fuel and Other
Operating Costs
(a) FAFIFAMA              1,385,000
(Parts A, C,
E and G of
the Proj-
ect)
(b) OMBY (Parts             325,000
G (i) and
(ii) of the
Project)
(c) ODEMO/BTM                90,000
(Parts G
(iii) and
(iv) of the
Project)
(6) Unallocated                3,750,000
TOTAL      9,600,000


﻿- 35 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures:


﻿- 36 -
(a) prior to August 21, 1974;
(b) in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (5) on account
of expenditures incurred for Parts G (iii) and (iv) of the Project
(i) until the Borrower has furnished to the Association detailed
proposals for the organization of the beef-share-fattening and
pilot pig program by ODEMO and the beef-share-fattening program
by OMBY, and (ii) until the Association has dispatched notice to
the Borrower that it accepts the evidence furnished to it that the
BTM Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BTM,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BTM in
accordance with its terms; and
(c) in respect of Category II on account of expenditures
incurred for Part C of the Project until the Borrower has employed
the water engineer referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then


﻿- 37 -
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement (Amended),
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 38 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a four-year program of assistance
to village livestock and rural development in the Borrower's
Majunga Province (Parts A through F of the Project) and the
Tsiroanomandidy Sub-Prefecture of Tananarive Province (Part G of
the Project). The Project consists of the following main parts:
Part A.
Development of an intensive veterinary and livestock
extension service.
Part B.
Improvement of about 10,000 hectares of communal pasture
in about 200 villages through the introduction of
sub-tropical planting.
Part C.
Construction of ponds, shallow wells and boreholes
in about 300 villages.
Part D.
Construction of 28 village schools and of an
agricultural training center.
Part E.
Improvement or construction of about 170 kilometers
and maintenance of about 280 kilometers of secondary
and tertiary roads.


﻿- 41 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or more shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for equipment for road construction and water
supply development shall be grouped under arrangements satisfactory
to the Association so as to encourage competition and permit bulk
procurement consistent with appropriate technical and procurement
practices.
B.   Other procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent and
veterinary equipment and supplies may be procured through local
shopping on the basis of at least three suppliers' quotations.


﻿- 42 -
2.   Cattle and pigs shall be procured locally through regular
commercial channels from responsible suppliers.
3.   The construction of boreholes, piggeries and buildings shall
be procured through competitive bidding advertised locally, under
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.   The construction of cattle handling facilities, buildings,
housing, schools, water ponds and mobile health units shall be
carried out directly by FAFIFAMA or through competitive bidding
advertised locally under procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.   The construction of shallow wells may be carried out by
the Borrower through force account with the assistance of its
appropriate technical services.
6.   The construction, improvement and maintenance of roads
shall be carried out by the Borrower's Ministry responsible
for Public Works through force account.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   (a) Before bids for civil works and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more are invited, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising


﻿- 43 -
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) Before requesting quotations for goods, estimated to
cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more but less than the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, from suppliers, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, the technical
specifications and shall make such modifications to the said
specifications as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) After bids or quotations have been received and
evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder or
supplier to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons
for the intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received or quotations
obtained together with the recommendation for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 44 -
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids or quotations were asked or prequalification
invited.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, or
quotations, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 45 -
SCHEDULE 4
Organization and Staffing of FAFIFAMA
A.   Organization
FAFIFAMA's organization will comprise central management
services and three departments: the Livestock Development
Departments and the Commercial Department. The Livestock
Development Departments are two: Veterinary and Animal
Production and Civil Works (roads and water). The central
management services will include a Service of Finance and
Administration.
B.   Staffing
1.   FAFIFAMA's staff will include staff recruited directly
by FAFIFAMA and staff seconded by the Borrower from
Government departments. Seconded staff will include
staff from the Provincial Livestock Services of Majunga
Province. The Borrower will second to FAFIFAMA an
engineer from its Direction des Travaux Publics to
assist FAFIFAMA in the planning and coordination of
the road development program included in Part E of
the Project.


﻿- 46 -
2.   FAFIFAMA will recruit and employ directly staff as
indicated in the following table:
Central Management Services at Headquarters
General Manager
Director of Finance and Administration
Accountant
Administrative Agent
Office Employees, Typists, Drivers
Veterinary and Animal Production Department
1 Director (veterinarian)
1 Regional Director (veterinarian)
1 Animal Production Specialist
Village Livestock Agents (100)
Suporting Staff (including tractor drivers)
Public Works and Water Department
Water Engineer
Engineering Technician
Road Engineer
Chief Mechanic
Supporting Staff
Commercial Department
Director
Accountant
Supporting Staff (including herdsmen)
FAFIFAMA will review the foregoing table annually with the
Association.
3.   The Village livestock agents will be appointed in
consultation with the Fokonolona and will be located in several
villages. The Fokonolona will be consulted with respect to the
assessment of said agents performance.


