RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                Report No. P-688
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK POR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
UNION. OF LAND IMPROVEMENT
ASSOCIATIONS
FOR AN
IRRIGATION PROJECT
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
April 17, 1969



REPORT AND RECOMNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE UNION OF LAND IMPROVEMENT
ASSOCIATIONS (ULIA) WITH THE GUARhNTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $45 million to the
Union of Land Improvement Associations (ULIA), to be guaranteed by the
Republic ol Korea.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        One of the main objectives of Korea's Second Five Year Plan
(1967-71) is to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains. Grain imports
constitute a heavy drain on the country's foreign exchange which it can
ill afford. There is practically no new land which can be put under
paddy cultivation so increased production can be achieved only through
more intensive use of scarce arable land.
3.        Following a request from the Minister of Agriculture and
Forestry for assistance in preparing an irrigation project, intensive
studies iwere undertaken by preliminary IBRD/FAO missions.  The project
was appraised in September/October 1968. The Pyongtaek and Kumgang
irrigation schemes are part of the Government's All Weather Farming
Program for the expansion and rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
which aims at increasing fully irrigated paddy land from the present
60 percent to 85 percent of the total cultivable area of the country
by 1976.
4.       Niiegotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington
from February 14 to 19, 1969. The Borrower, the ULIA, was represented
by Yr. E.J. Lim. Mr. B.S. Hann from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry and Mr. S.Y. Wtlei from the Economic Planning Board represented
the Government.
5.        The proposed Bank loan would be the second to Korea.   In the
next few monzhs I expect to submit an IDA credit for vocational and
technical education and a second loan to the Korea Development Finance
Corporation (KDFC).



- 2 -
6.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Korea as of March 31, 1969:
Loan or                                                   Amount (U.S. $ millicn)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower            Purose           Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
25       1962    Republic of Korea   Railway                  13.9      Nil
110       1967    Republic of Korea   2nd Railway               11.0      1.2
529       1968    KDFC                Industry          5.0               4.7
S-4       1968    Republic of Korea   Highway Studies           3.5      3.0
Total (less cancellations) now outstanding              O     28.4
and held by Bank and IDA
Total undisbursed                                     4.7      4.2      8.9
7.        The projects aro progressing satisfactorily.  IFC has invested
$700,000 in KDFC and is considering $6 million in equity and loans to two
projects in Korea, a paper plant and a silk manufacturing plant.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.        Borrower:                 Union of Land Improvement Associa-
tions (ULIA).
Guarantor:                Republic of Korea.
Amount:                   Various currencies equivalent to
$45 million.
Purpose:                  To provide irrigation to,and enable
the effective utilization of,approx-
imately 37,000 hectares of land near
the western coast of Korea.
Amortization:              In thirty years including a seven
year period of grace, thro ugh semi-
annual installments beginning
June 15, 1976 and ending June 15,
1999.
Interest Rate:             6-1/2 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:        Three-fourths of one percent per annum.
Estimated Economic
Return on the Project:    14 percent.



PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        An appraisal report entitled "Korea - Pyongtaek-Kumgang Irri-
gation Project (PA-6a)" is attached.
10.       While other sectors of the economy have been growing at consid-
erable speed, the agricultural sector has maintained a relatively slow
growth rate of five percent per annum over the past several years, with
a sharp drop last year due to a severe drought. Recognizing the lag of
the a-ricultural sector and the widening gap between urban and rural
incomes, the Government is determined to step up development in this
area. Ex-tending irrigation to more areas of the country is part of
this effort, and the project under consideration is a major element in
what the Government calls the Au .T;eather Farming Program.
11.       The proposed Borrower is the Union of Land Improvement Associa-
tions (ULIA), a semi-autonomous public organization within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry. ULIA was founded in 1940, and through its
member associations now controls about 43 percent of Korea's total irri-
gated area. Its annual budget is almost totaly dependent on Government
appropriations, either as grants or loans. Under ULIA's guidance and
supervision, a considerable number of small scale reservoir and pump-lift
irrigation projects have been completed. In addition, several thousand
hectares of tidal flats were successfully reclaimed and a large number of
small fragmented areas were irrigated. Although ULIA has a large and tech-
nically competent staff, the proposed Bank project is larger and more com-
plex than the other irrigation schemes undertaken by ULIA, and therefore
LTLIh will appoint supervising consultants, acceptable to the Bank, for the
construction of the project.
12.       The project which the Bank is financing is the irrigation of
two separate land units, Pyongtaek and Kumgang. It also includes the
preparation by consultants of an improved seeds multiplication project.
The project under consideration would involve pumping water from river
estuaries into canals to irrigate land in adjacent valleys and on lower
slopes. Construction in the Kumgang area would take about three years
and that in the Pyongta6karea about five.
13.       The total cost of the project is estimated at approximately
$90 million. The proposed Bank loan is half that amount. Wgater rates
wi,ll be set at levels to recover all operating and maintenance costs and
at least 40 percent of capital costs over a period of thirty-five years.
This approximates the established pattern in Korea. The rates will equal
about one-third of thc incremental family income generated by the project
and will provide ULIA with funds to cover approximately half the annual debt
service on the proposed Bank loan.  The balance would come from the Government
14.       The additional output resulting from the project would be
81,000 tons of rice, 38,000 tons of barley, 136,000 tons of vegetables
and lesser amounts of fodder, fruit and other minor crops. At full
development, the annual gross value of production from the project area



- h- 
is expected to exceed $30 million, more than triple the present level.
The net farm income for the average farm family after aU charges is
expected to double to about $600 at full production, an increase of
$300 over wqhat the family would have earned without the project. The
rate of return to the economy for the project as a wJhole is calculated
at 14 percent.
15.       All equipment and major civil works contracts would be let
after international competitive bidding. As Korea has a large and
highly competitive construction industry and competes favorably in
certain kinds of equipment, it is expected that at least $3.0 million
and possibly as much as $20 million would be disbursed against contracts
won by local suppliers. Because of the high priority the Government
accords to land improvement, equipment imported for that purpose is
exempted from import duties. Accordingly, no preference wil-l be given
to local bidders.
16.       Korea has made remarkable development efforts and its savings
performance has increased considerably, being presently about 14 percent
of GNP. But there is nevertheless a resource gap which can not be met
entirely by financing only the foreign exchange costs of projects suit-
able for Bank consideration. Many of the projects having a high foreign
exchange component, particularly in the industrial sector, are financed
with funds from private and bilateral government sources.   In these cir-
cumstances, financing of some local expenditures on high priority projects
is justified.
17.       The proposed project is of high priority and fits into the
Bank's strategy of upgrading the agricultural sector.  The Borrower,
with the help of supervising consultants, will be capable of carrying
it out efficiently.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Union of
Land Improvement Associations, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of Korea and the Bank the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iiij of the Articles of Agreement and the
text of a Resolution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
19.       The draft Loan And Guarantee Agreement conform substantially
to the pattern of agreements used for irrigation projects. Under the
Guarantee Agreement Korea will take several steps essential for the
successful execution of the project, but which are outside the competence
of the ULIA. In particular, Korea will take appropriate steps to ensure



that river waters required for the project are not diverted or utilized
in a manner prejudicial to the efficient execution of the Project. (See
Section 3.06.)
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of the Republic of Korea" (in three volumes) No. EAP-4a was
circulated to the Executive Directors on March 14, 1969.
21.       The performance of the Korean economy continues to be impres-
sive. ONP in real terms grew by 9 percent in 1967 and 13 percent in 1968
in spite of successive droughts in these years.  This is appreciably higher
than the 7 percent growth rate originally planned, largely because of very
high growth rates of industrial output of 22 percent and 26 percent in
1967 and 1968 respectively. The rate of population growth has slowed down
from 3 percent to 2.3 percent in the last decade and per capita GNP has
grown at rates approaching 10 percent, to about $170 equivalent in 1968.
22.       Merchandise exports increased from an average level of less
than $90 million in 1962-64 to $320 million in 1967 and to almost $490
million in 1968, but imports also expanded rapidly, especially in the
last two years, as a result of the economic expansion, the need for
foodgrains imports and trade liberalization. The deficit on goods and
services account increased therefore to almost $620 million in 1968 from
$415 million in 1967 and 4220 million in 1964.
23.       Agricultural performance in the last two years has been dis-
appointing; the 1968 output remained at the low level of 1967 which was
6 percent below 1966. While poor weather undoubtedly was the major
reason, a slowdown in land development and the use of agricultural inputs
has been noticeable. The irrigation project for which the proposed loan
would be made will help to rectify this situation and alleviate the impact
of possible future droughts on agricultural production. Therefore, it has
high priority among proposed Bank Group operations in Korea.
24.       Private savings, which had slowed down somewhat in 1967 due to
the low level of agricultural income and increased private consumption,
regained some strength in 1968. Public savings rose substantially owing
to a sharp increase in tax revenue, following a tax reform and further
improvement of the tax administration. Total gross domestic savings
stayed at a level of 13.5 percent of GNP in 1968, but are expected to
go up to about 15 percent of GNP in 1969 on the assumption that private
savings would further recover to about 10.5 percent of GNP and public
savings remain at the present level of about 4.5 percent of GNP.
25.       Gross capital formation amounted to 24 percent of GNP in 1968.
As investment increased more rapidly than domestic savings, the resource
gap, which has been widening since 1966, reached close to 11 percent of
GNP in 1968. Capital inflow from abroad filled this gap; however, the
share of official vrants declined and that of loans, especially of short-
term commercial loans, increased sharply. Gross investment at current
prices is expected to reach a level of close to txbn 500 billion (US$ 1.8
billion) in 1969 or almost 26 percent of GNP. This would result in a



- 6 -
resource gap of between 10 percent and 11 percent of GNP or roughly
lWon 200 billion (US$ 720 million) to be financed by the inflow of
capital from abroad. Investment as a proportion of GNP is forecast
to remain at the level of roughly 26 percent in 1970 and 1971, while
domestic savings may go up to 16 percent of GNP in 1971 but hardly
very much farther. This would still leave a resource gap of between
9 and 10 percent of GNP in 1971 to be filled by external borrowing.
26.       Korea has incurred during the last two years a rather
large amount of short-term debt. As a result the debt service ratio
increased from 2.6 percent in 1966 to 7.4 percent in 1968. If items
now on order are delivered on schedule service on public and private
debt will reach 20 percent or more in 1970, not counting any provision
for the service of new debt. In these circumstances the projected rate
of investments at present appears to be unreasonably high. Korea cannot
realistically expect to fill the estimated resource gap with borrowings
on long and concessionary terms, so that tho ambitious level of invest-
ments would add further to the already heavy external debt burden. A
slower growth of exports in the future and a possible decline of receipts
from Vietnam will accentuate the problem of debt service in the coming
years, and this will have to be taken into account in reviewing the future
investment targets.
27.       In present circumstances it is imperative that the Government
control the accumulation of short- and medium-term debt. The Government
currently exercises reasonable control over the level of Government-
guaranteed loans; however, the degree of control over commercial bank-
guaranteed loans is inadequate and should be extended. Measures to
control the inflow of further short- and medium-term capital include
an agreement with the International Monetary Fund which would limit
new commitments of short- and medium-term loans to more prudent pro-
portions.
28.       The Government has been informed of our doubts regarding the
size of the proposed investment program, which includes a number of
projects which could be postponed or scaled dowqn without seriously
affecting future growth rates. Similarly, private borrowing abroad
and private investment could be restrained by applying cost benefit
analysis more strictly in the selection of projects using foreign
exchange and budgetary funds. Given the generally sensible economic
policies followed by the Korean Government in recent years, it is
reasonable to expect that the Government will take the necessary action
to control the growth of the country's external debt burden while keeping
future investments at the level necessary to maintain further rapid eco-
nomic growth.
29.       Considering the good export and savings performance of the
Korean economy, Korea can be regarded as creditworthy for this loan.



- 7 -
PlAT VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEIENT
30.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply wqith the
Articles of i-igreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
31.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. IIcNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
April 17, 1969



