RE.TUR.r4 TO
COPY           ~~RESTRICTED
RPORT5 D~~~~miES COPY                          Report No. PA - 6
WITH1N                 FL
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bonk and its affiliated orgonizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
KOREA
PYONGTAEK-KUMGANG IRRIGATION PROJECT
March 3, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00     = Won (W) 280
W 1           = US$ 0.00357
W 1,000,000   = US$ 3,570
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                 =  2.h7 acres
1 kilometer (km)               = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (k2)           0.386 square miles
1 meter (m)                    = 39.37 inches
1 cubic meter (m3)                35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)   = 810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)              = 0.039 inches
1 square meter (mi2)              10.76 square feet
ABBREVIATIONS
LIA    - Land Improvement Association
MAF    - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
NACF   - National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
NAPIO  - National Agricultural Products Inspection Office
ORD    - Office of Rural Development
SPAD   -  Special Projects Administration Department
ULIA   - Union of Land Improvement Associations
WFP    - World Food Program
RETURN TO REPORTS DESK
ROOM A-124 BY:
JAN 3 3



K 0 R E A
FTONGTAEK - KUMDAN7G IRRIGATION PROJ-ECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SU1*%ARY         . . . . . . ... . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .
I. INTRODUCTION.          . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  . . . . .  1
II.  BACKGROUND  .  .  .  .  .   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .  1
III.  THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . .      . . . . . . . . . . .    3
IV. THE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      7
A. General Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
B. Cost Estimates   . . . .  .     . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
C.  Financing   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  12
D. Disbursement   . . . . . . . .      . .  .   . . . . . . .  13
E.  Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
V. ORGANIZATION AND NANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     13
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PRO'SPECTS AND FARM INCOME . . . . . . . . .  20
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICAI'ION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOM1ENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  )4
ANNEXES
1. Water Supply
2. Agriculture in the Project Area
3. Project Works and Construction Schedule
4. Cost Estimates
5. Items to be Procured by ULIA
6.  Financial Statements of ULIA
7. Projected Agricultural Production
8. Economic Trends in the Foodgrain Market
9.  Economic Rate of Return
ORGANIZATION CHART
MAPS
1. Location of the Project
2. The Pyongtaek Area
3. The Kunmgang Area
This report is 'based on the findings of an appraisal mission which consisted of
Messrs. J. M. Malone, H. T. Chang, J. C. Douglass, K. MyLnt and Boonchob
Kanclhanalak (consultant).






K O R E A
____gtaek - Kuman   Irrigation Project
i.        The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested a Bank loan
of US$ 45 million to assist the Union of Land Improvement Associations (ULIA),
a sem:i-autonomous government agency, in financing the development under pump
lift irrigation of two areas, Pyongtaek and Kumgang, comprising about 37,000
ha located alona tidal estuaries near the southwestern coast of the Korean
Peninsula (see Map 1). The project is an important part of the Korean Govern-
ment's All Weather Farming Program within the framework of the Second Five-
Year Economic Development Plan, 1967-71.
ii.       One of the main objectives of the Second Five-Year Plan is the
attainment of self-sufficiency in foodgrains. The Government hopes to achieve
this goal throughl expansion and rehabilitation of irrigation facilities (the
All Weather Farming Program); farmland reclamation (both upland and tidal);
land reorganization and consolidation: and measures to increase yields. The
project, which would benefit about 50,000 farm families, and would combine
most of these measures, would involve pumping water from river estuaries into
canals to irrigate land in adjacent valleys and on lower slopes. Construction
in the Kumgang area would take about three years and that in the Pyongtaek
area about five. The project would include the setting up of a new department
within ULIA to manage the project; employment of consultants; preparation of
final designsz acquisition-of rights of way: construction of pumping stations,
irrigation and drainage canals, sea dikes, roads, offices, etc.; raising of
the operating level of Tapchang reservoir; reclamation of 4,400 ha of tidal
flats; consolidation, preparation and levelling of farmland; and procurement
of farm tractors and spraying equipment.
iii.      The total cost of the project, including interest during construc-
tion, would be about W 25.2 billion (US$ 89.9 million). The proposed US$ 45
million loan wouLd cover 50% of the total cost.  The remaining 50% would be
met by government budget allocations and possibly World Food Program (WFP)
assistance to ULIA which would be responsible, with the assistance of con-
sultants, for the execution of the project by contractors. All tendering for
procurement and rnajor civil works contracts would be on the basis of inter-
nationial competitive bidding. The exact size of the foreign exchange com-
ponent would depend on the outcome of the bidding, but would be approximately
40% and no more than 47% of the total cost.
iv.       The purpose of the project would be to extend the double cropping
of barley and vegetables with rice to as much of the land area as possible
through improved drainage and mechanization, while increasing the yields of
the existing crops through better water regulation which in turn would permit
the use of ferti:Lizer and other purchased inputs.



v.        The project would lead to a doubling of net farm incomes and an
increase in annual crop production in the project area of more than 200% within
three years of the provision of irrigation water, consisting of an additional
81,000 tons of rice, 37,000 tons of barley, 136,000 tons of vegetables and
84,ooo tons of fodder, as well as smaller amounts of fruits and other minor
crops. The additional grain production resulting from the project would be
equivalent to about 10% of Korea's current total grain imports, and would
result in annual foreign exchange savings of about US$ 17 million. The
project's internal rate of return would be 14%. The project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$ 45 million equivalent with a maturity of 30 years, in-
cluding 7 years' grace.



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PYONGTAEK-KUMGANG IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested a Bank loan
of us$ 45.0 mil.lion to assist in financing the development under pump-lift
irrigation of two areas, Pyongtaek and Kumgang, comprising about 37,000 ha
located along tidal estuaries near the southwestern coast of the Korean
Peninsula (see Map 1). The project is part of the Korean Government's All-
Weather Farming Program within the framework of the Second Five-Year Econom-
ic Development Plan, 1967-71.
1.02      One of the main objectives of the Second Five-Year Plan is the
attainment of self-sufficiency in foodgrains, from the present position in
which 16% of the food grains are imported. The government hopes to achieve
this goal through expansion and rehabilitation of irrigation facilities (the
All Weather Farming Program); farmland reclamation (both upland and tidal)
and soil conservation; land consolidation; and measures to increase yields.
The project, which would combine most of these measures, would contribute
about 10% of the long-range target for the ultimate expansion o.f Korea's total
irrigated area.
1.03      The loan request was prepared by the Union of Land Improvement As-
sociations (ULIA), a semi-autonomous agency of the Korean Government, with
the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme. This report is based
on information submitted by IJLIA and on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited the Republic of Korea in September-October, 1968. The mission
consisted of Messrs. J.M. Malone, H.T. Chang, J.C. Douglass, K. Myint and
Boonchob Kanchanalak (consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Republic of Korea has a population of about 30 million, grow-2
ing at a rate of 2.4% (1967), and a total land area of less than 100,000 km
It consists of the southern half of a rugged, elongated peninsula located in
the temperate zone on the Chinese coast, between the Yellow Sea and the Sea
of Japan. The mountainous backbone of the peninsula is near the eastern side,
sloping more gradually to the south and west, where wide alluvial river
valleys provide the country' s major agricultural areas.
2.02      Although the agricultural sector provides the livelihood of more
than. half of Korea's total population it contributes only about 33% of total
GDP, and while agricultural production has been growing at an average rate
of about 4% annually, the industrial sector has grown about four times as fast.
The gap between urban and rural incomes has widened rapidly, so that, in the
countryside, the US$ 100 equivalent per capita GNP is well below the national
average of US$ 150, and less than half of non-farm per capita GNP.



2.03      Agricultural growth has been achieved by increasingly intensive use
of Korea's scarce arable land. A summary of the present pattern of land use
is shown below:
(Million ha)
Full irrigated paddy fields                      0.8
Partially irrigated paddy fields                 0.3
Rainfed paddy fields                             0.2
Subtotal                                    1.3
Dry fields (upland crops)                         1.0
Total cultivated area                             2.3
Forest (mostly mountainous)                      6.7
Other                                             0.9
Total land area                                   9.9
Farming is still basically subsistence-oriented.  Average farm size is small,
less than one ha of crops per household, but the Korean farmers are progres-
sive and hard-working, and their yields per ha are extremely high. Roughly
half of the total cultivated area produces more than one crop each year, as
a result of interplanting and double cropping.
2.04      Although Korea's annual precipitation is adequate for agricultural
purposes, being well in excess of 1,000 mm in most areas, it is poorly dis-
tributed, with more than half occurring as torrential downpours between mid-
June and mid-September, the growing season for rice. These peak rainfalls
are often interrupted by periods of drought lasting from 10 to 20 days, so
that large areas of cropland suffer from either flood or drought damage at
fairly regular intervals. Further, due to the country's irregular topography,
characterized by a large number of abrupt, fragmented granitic outcroppings,
there are few convenient sites for reservoir construction or large contiguous
units of irrigable land. As a result, the development of irrigation has oc-
curred mainly in the form of small units, built, owned and operated by farm-
ers' Land Improvement Associations (LIA's), often without any storage facili-
ties, at a relatively high investment per hectare.
The All Weather Farming Program
2.05      Of the half million hectares of paddy fields which are presently
rainfed or only partially irrigated, about 350,000 ha are thought to be po-
tentially fully irrigable, although some 70,000 ha of this area would depend
on the development of as yet unproven groundwater resources. There are, more-
over, about 200,000 ha of potentially reclaimable land on higher slopes and
tidal flats, although such lands become progressively more difficult and ex-
pensive to develop as the better lands with the best physical conditions are
developed first. With the extremely high pressure of population on arable
land, at a ratio of about 13 persons per cultivated hectare, and the persistent
necessity of importing large quantities of food with scarce foreign exchange,
the Government understandably continues to give priority to irrigation and
tidal and upland reclamation, in spite of the high investment cost per hectare.



-3-
2.o6      To complement these measures, the Government is also engaged in
programs of land consolidation and agricultural improvement through research,
extension and credit. These programs have the dual objectives of (a) further
increasing yields per hectare, especially in areas receiving irrigation, by
the more widespread use of fertilizer, pest control, improved seeds etc.; and
(b) expanding the area of double cropping by consolidating fragmented hold-
ings into compact blocks with improved irrigation and drainage and large enough
size to permit mechanization, thereby allowing for the timely establishment
and clearing of the second, winter crop.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The proposed project would serve two separate land areas, Pyongtaek
and Kumgang, located along tidal estuaries near the western coast of Korea,
respectively 70 km and 170 km due south of Seoul (see Map 1). These areas
fall roughly within 360 and 370 north latitude. They were chosen because
they contain fairly large contiguous blocks of irrigable paddy fields near
stil:L unutilized sources of water supply and would permit the construction
of irrigation systems at a cost which, although high by wrorld standards, would
not be unreasonable in the context of the relatively high productivity of
Korean agriculture.
3.02      The total gross area covered by the project wotuld be about 60,000
ha, of which, due to the irregular topography, the irrigation systems would
command only 37,350 ha, including 4,400 ha to be reclaimed from the sea, and
the net irrigated area would be 35,250 ha. The area is distributed as fol-
lows: (amounts in ha)
Pyongtaek           Kumgang             Total
Net iLrrigable area:
Tidal flats           4,4o0                -                4,400
Paddy fields         14,400             13,050             27,450
Lower slopes          1,300              2,100              3,400
Sub-total            20,100             15,150             35,250
Non-irrigable area
(poor soils)          1,6oo                500              2,100
Total command area        21,700             15,650             37,350
Area not commanded        17,900              4,6oo             22,500
Total. gross area         39,600             20,250             59,850
The estimated total population residing within the project area is about
330,000, broken down as follows:



Pyongtaek           Kumgang              Total
Farm population          130,000             130,000            260,000 oo
Non-farm population        50,000             20,000             70,000
Total                     180,000            150,000            330,000
The main towns are Pyongtaek and Kanggyong (on the Kumgang), which are con-
nected by rail and paved road with both Seoul and Pusan, the major port, as
well as other major towns outside the project area (see Map 1). Kunsan, at
the mouth of the Kumgang, can only accommodate ships of up to 10,000 tons.
The project area encompasses a road network of about 1,000 km, mostly all-
weather, gravel-surfaced village roads. The area is well-served by both
road and rail transport and storage facilities for crops and farm inputs.
Climate
3.03      The Pyongtaek and Kumgang areas have similar climates with about
1,300 mm average annual precipitation and 29 0C maximum summer temperature.
The hot season is protracted, with a short spring and fall. Sub-zero temp-
eratures, with snow and frozen ground are frequent during winter, so that
most agricultural activity is confined to the period March - November. Al-
though most of the precipitation occurs during the growing season, droughts
lasting from 10 to 20 days can occur at any time and, together with occasional
floods, present the most serious climatic hazard to crop production.
Topography and Soils
3.04      The rock underlying both areas is weathered granite.   The terrain
consists mainly of alluvial valleys, interspersed with heavily eroded, rolling
uplands. In Pyongtaek, the two tidal estuaries associated with the main
rivers lie within the project area. The soils fall broadly into two types:
the heavy, medium to fine-textured, poorly drained alluvial valley clays (80%)
and the coarser, lighter, better drained but more acidic upland soils (20%).
With proper management, including the application of fertilizer and lime,
most of these soils are capable of producing very high yields of a wide variety
of crops, although some 4,700 ha in the lowest lying areas are of such
weight and texture that they cannot be drained sufficiently to make them
suitable for any crops other than rice.
Water Supply
3.05      Reliable hydrological data for the project area are scarce and es-
timates of available water supply are based on precipitation and runoff.
The estimates are sufficiently accurate to permit the design of irrigation
systems for the area. Details are given in Annex 1.
1/ The estimated number of farm families residing in the area is about 50,000.



- 5 -
3.06      Two river systems flow through the Pyongtaek area (see Map 2).   In
the southern part, the Chinwi Chong and Ansong Chong converge on the town of
Pyongtaek, where they form a tidal estuary leading tf the Yellow Sea.   The
catchment area oi these rivers covers about 1,600 km , the annual rnn-off
is about 66.o Mm and the estimated peak discharge is about 5,000 m /sec.
About 15 km to the north is the Nam Yang Estuary, fed by the Para9 Chong,
with a catchment are! of 200 km2, an estimated run-off of 19.0 Mm and a peak
discharge of 1,000 m /sec. A small part of the water available in these two
river systems is already being used to irrigate about 11,000 ha.
3.07      In the Kumgang area, water is supplied to the existing irrigated
areas by the Kumgang itself and three of its tributaries: the Nonsan Chong,
the Soksong Chong and the Yongdong Chong (see Map 3).   The2Kumgang, almost
400 km in length, with a catchment area of about 10,000 km , is one of Korea's
three largest rivers. The ave5age total annual discharge at Kanggyong is
estimated to be about 5,000 Mm . No major multipurpose projects have yet been
developed on the Kumgang. However, 69 small existing irrigation schemes,
supplying water for 32,000 ha of land, are located upstream from the project
area. In the upper part of the catchment area, it is planned to construct a
dam on ~he Kumgang, 70 km northeast of Chonju at Pong Dam, which will impound
66.0 Mm and divert the run-off from about 900 km through s tunnel to an
adjacent river basin west of the Kumgang for power generation and the irri-
gation of about 15,000 ha.
3.08      In 1942, the Tapchang Reservoir was built on the Nonsan Chong, with
a storage capacity of about 2.4 Mm . At present, the reservoir is only being
used to irrigate an area of about 6,000 ha, which separates the northern and
southern parts of the proposed Kumgang irrigation scheme. The reservoir site
has further potential for storage and considerable amounts of surplus waters
are wasted over the spillway every year.
3.09      An existing scheme of about 3,000 ha, included within the project
area, is already receiving partial irrigation from the waters of the Yongdong
Chong, supplemented by pumping from the Kumgang through an existing pumping
station at Yongdu Ri (See Map 3). However, due to the steep terrain and
deforestation of its catchment area, the flow of the Kumgang is flashy and,
during periods of low flow and/or high tide, the pumps must shut- down due to
the movement of salt water upstream from the estuary. Thus, water shortages
regularly occur during critical periods of plant growth, and yields are
depressed.
3.10      The preliminary designs for the project are based on an estimated
peak irrigation water requirement of 1.3 liter/sec/ha. In the Pyongtaek area,
there is more than enough water available in the Ansong Chong to irrigate the
proposed area of 20,100 ha. In fact, tentative plans a:Lready exist for the
construction of a 27,000 ha extension to the Pyongtaek scheme to use the rest
of the available water. This extension would share some of the facilities
proposed for the first phase and could thus be built at a relatively much
lower cost per ha.



-6-
3.11      In the Kumgang area, the proposed project would just about exhaust
the available supply during periods of extremely low flow. In fact, during
20-30 day periods of drought of the sort which occur approximately once in ten
years, part of the scheme would suffer slightly from water shortage, due either
to the low supply in the river, or to salt water intrusion at the upstream pump-
ing site, requiring a shut-down of the pumps. During these periods, the
Tapchang Reservoir would be used to provide the project water requirements.
By minor modifications to the reservoir spillway, including the introduction
of siphons, the operating level would be raised 1.7 m, giving 9 Mm of ad-
ditional live storage while improving the reservoir's margin of flood safety.
The total crop loss that would otherwise have occurred at such times without
irrigation could thus be prevented in even the driest years, and the 80% of
the Kumgang scheme to which Tapchang water could be delivered could receive
full, continuous supply throughout the drought periods by drawing on the
additional storage capacity of the reservoir.
Agriculture
3.12      Pyongtaek and Kumgang have similar land-use patterns.   All valley
land, whether irrigated or not, is occupied by paddy fields, which, in the
narrow sloping valleys between the foothills, are carefully terraced. On the
broadside of the ridges, where the slope is gentle, there are upland fields,
orchards and village compounds. Further up the hills and on steeper slopes,
crops give way to woodlots, mostly pine. The average farm size is about one
hectare, most of which typically consists of fragments of paddy land and the
remainder, of small upland gardens and orchards. Since land reform following
1949, the vast majority of farmers are owner-cultivators, and land tenure is
no longer a constraint on :Lncreased production. Land consolidation, which
has proven extremely popular and effective on nearby existing irrigation
schemes, has not yet been initiated in the project area.
3.13      The present intensity of cropping, disregarding inter- and under-
planting, is about 132%, broken down as follows:
Cropped Area                                            %
Summer and Perennial Crops:    Rice                    74
Soya bean                11
Vegetables               12
Orchards and pastures     3
Subtotal          100
Winter Crops:                  Batrley                 29
Others                    3
Total             132
With the introduction of time-saving machinery, which enables farmers to
prepare their fields within the 10-14 days available between the harvest of



7 -
one crop and the planting of the next, double cropping on paddy fields is an
increasingly common practice in Korea. Due to the lack of irrigation and
drainage of the paddy fields in the project area, however, more than 70% of
the winter crop 'there is grown on the better-drained upland slopes. Thus,
given mechanization and improved drainage of the paddy fields, there is con-
siderable potential for the expansion of double cropping in both Pyongtaek
and Kumgang.
3.14      The major constraint on the production of summer crops, as indicated
in para 3.03 above, is the risk, in the absence of irrigation and drainage, of
drought or flood, which not only result in depressed yields or crop damage,
but also make the use of fertilizers and other purchased inputs uneconomic.
As a consequence, the difference in the average yields of adjacent irrigated
and non-irrigated areas is great, even in years of favorable climatic condi-
tions, since farmers in non-irrigated areas are unwilling to risk the neces-
sary Investment in purchased inputs on the chance of getting good rains.
3.15      Adequate extension services are provided on a nationwide basis by
the KILnistry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF), through its Office of Rural
Development (ORD). Agricultural credit and farm inputs are supplied through
the semi-autonomous National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) and
its member cooperatives, which operate crop and farm input storage facilities
and are also responsible for implementing the Government's foodgrain procure-
ment and price stabilization programs. In areas where LIA's operate irrigation
schemes, their staff provides more intensive supporting services to their
member farmers, including the supply of inputs and farm machinery, and a high-
er intensity of farm extension, following the broad technical guidance of the
ORD.
3.16      In practically every village there is a small rice mill and, in
many vrillages, an NACF warehouse as well. While most farmers belong to
cooperatives, 60% of their surplus is sold direct to rice millers and other
private buyers and about 70% of their credit needs are provided by private
moneylenders at high rates of interest. This situation is due mainly to the
fact that, because of financial limitations, NACF has been unable to expand
its operations fast enough to meet the growing demand for its services. The
Government has under preparation a request for external assistance in financing
an agricultural credit project.
3.17      Further details on agriculture in the project area are given in
Annex 2.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project for which Bank assistance is requested is the develop-
ment Lnder irrigation of two completely separate and physically independent



- 8 -
land units, Pyongtaek and Kungang. It also includes the prepration by con-
sultants of an improved seeds multiplication project. The project would
involve pumping water from river estuaries into canals to irrigate land in
adjacent valleys and on lower slopes. Construction in the Kungang area would
take about three years and that in the Pyongtaek area about five. (See
construction schedule, Annex 3). The project would include the setting up
of a new department within ULIA to manage the project; employment of consul-
tants; preparation of final designs; acquisition of right of way; construc-
tion of pumping stations, irrigation and drainage canals, sea dikes, roads,
offices, etc; raising of the operating level of Tapchang reservoir; reclama-
tion of 4,400 ha of tidal flats; the consolidation, preparation and leveling
of farm land; and procurement of farm tractors and spraying equipment. The
project would be relatively costly in comparison with existing irrigation
schemes in Korea, due to the fact that it would involve irregular topography,
a large number of pump stations, a much higher degree of land consolidation
and levelling, a more highly reticulated irrigation and drainage system and,
in the Pyongtaek area, construction of sea dikes. (Further details are given
in Annex 3).
Major Project Works
4.02      ULIA's preliminary designs for the project, which were prepared
with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, would provide a
sound basis for the preparation of the final, detailed designs, which would
take about a year to complete. At Pyongtaek, the two tidal estuaries within
the project area would be closed by the construction of sea dikes, one of
which is 30% completed, thereby creating fresh water reservoirs and alloving
for the reclamation of 4,400 ha of tidal flats.   (See Map 2).  These reser-
voirs would supply water for five self-contained sub-schemes -- four on the
banks of the Ansong Chong and a fifth to the north of the Nam Yang Estuary --
which would draw water from the estuaries through electric pumps. In addi-
tion to the five large first-stage pump stations, which would serve the 80%
of the area with an elevation of 10 m or less, ten smaller second-stage and
two third-stage re-lift pump stations would be built to raise the water to
higher fields. The irregular topography of the area would call for a complex
canal system, with 670 km of canals and 47 short tunnels with a total length
of 6.2 km.
4.03      In the Kumgang area, the irrigation system would be based on pump-
ing from three points on the left bank of the Kumgang (see Map 3): two new
pump stations would be built at Bongjong and Kanggyong. The latter would be
supplemented by the existing pump station at Yongdu Ri. Because of the pene-
tration of salt water upstream of Kanggyong during periods of low river flow
and/or high tides, an interconnecting canal system would be required, with
Kanggyong at the center, to ensure regular supplies to all parts of the scheme.
In addition, the operating lvel of the existing Tapchang Reservoir would be
raised by 1.7 m to give 9 Mm of additional storage capacity, as explained
in para 3.11 above. This would be used to supply all but 3,550 ha of the
scheme during times of extreme drought, when even the farthest upstream pump
station at Bongjong, 50 km from the river's mouth, might be forced to shut
down because of salt water intrusion.



-9-
4.o4      There is little legislation governing water rights in Korea.   The
use of all river waters, however, is closely controlled by the Ministry of
Construction's River Control Office, under the provisions of the River Law
(No. 892) of December 27, 1961, as amended. In view of the fact that the
water requirements of the Kumgang scheme would almost completely exhaust the
uncommitted balance available in the river during periods of extremely low
flow firm written assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the
government and ULIA would not permit the upstream diversion of any water re-
quired for the project at such times.
4.05      In addition to the two first-stage pump stations, seven second-
stage pump stations would be built along the main canals. Two diesel-driven 1/
drainage pump stations would be built along the lower reaches of the Soksong
Chong to drain an area of 1,000 ha which is regularly flooded. (Two existing
drainage pump stations are already operating in the upper reaches). The dis-
tribution of irrigation water would require the construction of 550 km of
canals and 24 short tunnels with a total length of 5.2 km.
Land Development
4.o6      At both Pyongtaek and Kumgang, the distribution system would supply
water through turnouts to irrigation units of approximately five hectares
each. Within these units, individual farmers' fragmented fields would be
consolidated; and uniform, contiguous blocks of levelled land, each served by
an irrigation ditch, a drainage ditch and a simple farm access road built on
the bank of the irrigation ditch, would be reallocated to the farmers. In
the higher parts of the command areas, this consolidation would have to be
accompanied by terracing of the individual blocks, as a prerequisite to irri-
gation development. This type of land consolidation and development, which is
already extremely popular with Korean farmers, would allow for controlled water
supply, improved field drainage and mechanization, thereby making double crop-
ping feasible on a much larger area than at present.
Crop Development
4.07      The central purpose of the project would be to extend the double
cropping of barley and vegetables with rice to as much of the land area as
possible through improved drainage and mechanization, while increasing the
yields of the existing crops through better regulation of the crop water
supply, which in turn would permit the use of fertilizer and other purchased
inputs. After the completion of the project, rice monoculture would continue
on only 4,700 ha of the heaviest soils as against 18,600 ha at present.
4.08      Exploitation of the full potential for double cropping, provided by
land consolidation and the establishment of irrigation and drainage facilities,
1/   Due to their remote location and the fact that they would only be operated
during flood periods, these pump stations could be operated more econom-
ically with diesel power than with electric power.



-10 -
would entail a number of concurrent changes in other farming practices. With
this in view, provision is made for an increased extension effort in the pro-
posed organizational set-up for the project's subsequent operation annd main-
tenance (see para 5.09), and the adoption of such changes in practices is
assumed in calculating the project's economic benefits. Farmers would them-
selves purchase the requisite inputs, with the exception of tractors and
spraying equipment, which would be owned and operated by the project organi-
zation on a self-liquidating custom-hire basis. In order to facilitate the
purchase of the necessary inputs, assurances have been obtained during nego-
tiations that the government, acting through the NACF, would give priority
to the project area in the supply of inputs and the allocation of credit
funds, and that an annual plan for the physical distribution of the inputs
and the provision of the corresponding amounts of credit would be agreed
between ULIA, NACF and the government.
Power Supply
4.09      The government-controlled Korean Electric Company would supply the
necessary power for the pump stations at an average cost of about 1 1/2 US
cents per kwh. The necessary investment in additional transmission and dis-
tribution facilities to serve the project, estimated at about US$ 2 million
equivalent, would be met by the government out of the national Rural Electri-
fication Fund. This investment would be fully amortized out of the energy
charges paid by the project during its life and no provision is made for it
in the project cost estimates. Assurances have been obtained during negotia-
tions, however, that the government would construct the necessary facilities
promptly and would at all times guarantee to supply the full power require-
ments of the project.
Improved Seeds Project Preparation
4.10      One of the prospective bottlenecks in the development of Korean
farming is that the present system of seed multiplication and distribution
may not be adequate to meet the long-run requirements of a growing and more
complex agriculture. The existing improved seeds breeding and multiplication
scheme needs to be strengthened and enlarged within a legal framework per-
mitting adequate control and certification. It is, therefore, proposed that,
as an integral part of the present project, consultants would be employed to:
-    review the present situation and make recommendations on
future strategy;
-    draw up revised legislation for control of a seeds industry;
and
-    prepare an investment project for seed multiplication and
distribution centred around modern seeds processing plants.
With the information already available, particularly from an FAO/IBRD Coop-
erative Program project identification mission report, a team of about six
consultants should be able to complete these tasks within about six months.
One question which would require their close attention is whether it would
be possible to concentrate seed multiplication in one or two locations, or
whether the wide range of growing conditions in Korea would dictate a wider
range of locations.



- 11 -
B. Cost Estimates
4.11      The total cost of the project would be W 25.2 billion (US$ 89.9
million) equivalent, made up as follows:
Local  Foreign  Total     Local  Foreign  Total
---- Won Millions ---     ---- US$ Millions --- 1/
Engineering Works
Seadykes                       2,060   1,317   3,377     7.4     4.7      12.1
Spillways                        937     920   1,857     3.3      3.3      6.6
Distribution System:
Canals                        1,201     510   1,711     4.3      L.8      6.1
Tunnels                         182     215     397       .6      .8      1.4
Structures                    1,488   1,582   3,070     5.3      5.7     11.0
Pumphouses                      237     707     944       .8    2.5       3.4
Drainage                          85      40     125      .3       .1       .4
Land Preparation 2/              307     113     420     :L.1      .4      1.5
Land Consolidation and
Levelling                    1,284     954   2,238     14.6     3.4      8.o
Raising Level of Tapchang
Reservoir                       21      45      66       .1      .2       .2
Acquisition of Right of Way      688      -      688     2.5       -       2.5
Construction of Buildings         31      -       31       .1      -        .1
Approach Road and
Communications                  74      21      95      .3       .1       .3
Miscellaneous                    862     640   1,502     3.1     2.3       5.4
Total Engineering Works         9,457   7,o64  16,521    33.8    25.2      59.0
Admin., Design and Super-
vision (10%)                    945     707   1,652     3.4     2.5       5.9
Subtotal                       10,402   7,771  18,173    37.2    27.7      64.9
Farm Machinery, Vehicles
and Hydrological Equipment        -       520     520      -      1.9       1.9
Total Excluding Contingencies 10,402    8,291  18,693     37.2    29.6     66.8
Contingencies (20%)             2,080   1,659   3,739     7.4      5.9     13.3
Total Including Contingencies 12,482    9,950  22,432    44.6     35.5     80.1
Operation & Maintenance Dur-
ing Const.                        928      86   1,014     3.3       .3      3.6
Subtotal                       13,410  10,036  23,446    47.9     35.8     83.7
Seeds Project Preparation           7      41      48      -3/      .2       .2
Interest During Construction      -     1,680   1,680      -      6.o       6.o
Grand Total Project Cost       13,417  11,757  25,174    47.9     42.0     89.9
l/ Columns and rows do not necessarily add correctly due to rounding.
2/ Includes clearing, terracing and benching of upland fields before pro-
vision of irrigation and drainage.
3/ Less than $50,000.



- 12 -
The cost estimates are based on preliminary designs prepared by ULIA. Unit
costs are based on current prices and wages. The estimates for major struc-
tures contain design contingencies to cover variations in quantities pending
final design. The component of the project which would be subject to inter-
national competitive bidding, totalling about US$ 65 million in cost, includes
goods and services costing roughly Us$ 15 million 1/ which could result in
either local or foreign currency expenditure. Thus, while the exact foreign
exchange cost cannot be estimated, but would depend on the results of inter-
national competitive bidding, it will probably be approximately 40% of total
cost and is unlikely to exceed 47% (US$ 42 million), the estimate based on 100%
foreign procurement and contracting for all items subject to international
bidding. Contingencies of 20% on all items have been added for unforeseen
expenditures and possible price increases. The cost estimates also include
adequate allowances for engineering, supervision, operation, maintenance and
interest during the five-year construction period. The cost estimates are
reasonable. Further details of project costs are given in Annex 4.
C. Financing
4.12      The amount of the proposed loan would be US$ 45.0 million (W 12.6
billion) equivalent. The proposed loan would cover approximately 50% of the
total cost. The borrower would be ULIA. The remainder of the cost would be
met by budget allocations from the government to ULIA and, possibly, from
World Food Program (WFP) assistance. The Korean Cabinet has recently approved
a draft request for WFP assistance for the project amounting to 93,000 tons
of foodgrain and flour (worth about US$ 12 million). In any case, the newly
adjusted Second Five-Year Plan, as prepared by the Economic Planning Board
and approved by the government, provides adequate government funds for the
project. The budget allocation for investments in the expansion and rehabil-
itation of irrigation facilities (the All Weather Farming Program) amounts to
W 2.3 billion (us$ 8.2 million equivalent) in 1968 and to about W 4.9 billion
(US$ 17.5 million equivalent) in the draft budget for 1969. The approximate
project expenditure schedule, including disbursement of the proposed Bank
loan, would be as follows:
Year     1      2       3      4      5      Total
-------------- W billion equivalent -------------
Government contribution           0.9    3.4    4.1    2.4    1.8      12.6
Bank loan                         0.5    3.0    4.0    2.6    2.5       12.6
TOTAL                        1.4    6.4    8.1    5.0    4.3      25.2
(us$ million equivalent)         (5.0) (22.8) (28.9) (17.9) (15.3)    (89.9)
1/   Machinery and equipment which could possibly be supplied by Korean
manufacturers (about US$ 10 million) and some civil works contractors'
overheads and profits (about US$ 5 million).



- 13 -
D. Disbursement
4.13      About Us$ 16 million equivalent of the proposed loan would cover,
against full documentation, the cost, including contingencies, of pumps;
electrical and mechanical equipment for the sluice gates; cement; steel;
timber; 0 & M and farm equipment, overseas fellowships and the foreign ex-
change cost of the supervising consultants and the consultants preparing the
seed project (see list in Annex 5). Disbursements would also be made on a
percentage basis against certificates of expenditure under civil works
contracts. The supervising consultants would be responsible for certifying
such expenditure, totalling about US$ 56 million equivalent, including
contingencies, of which about US$ 23 million, or 41%, would be covered by
disbursements from the loan. About US$ 6 million of the proposed loan would
finEnce interest during construction.
E. Procurement
4.14      All tendering for procurement and civil works contracts would be
on the basis of international competitive bidding, except for small contracts
for terracing, benching and land levelling, totalling about US$ 10 million
equivalent, which would not attract serious international competition and
would be tendered locally. Even under international bidding, however, it is
likely that many of the successful bidders would be Korean, since Korea has
both a rapidly developing industrial sector and a large, highly competitive
contracting industry. Due to the competitive ability of the local industry,
no preference would need to be given to domestic suppliers in evaluating the
bids. The project consultants (see para 5.10) would assist ULIA in the
preparation of specifications, tender documents and contract forms and in
the evaluation of bids.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      The implementation of the project would be the responsibility of the
Union of Land Improvement Associations (ULIA), a semi-autonomous public or-
ganization within the Ministry of-Agriculture and Forestry, whose other re-
sponsibilities include:
- the supervision, guidance and audit of the operations of its
272 member associations;
- the planning, financing and supervision of the construction of
irrigation and reclamation projects on behalf of the Government
or member associations;
- the rental of construction equipment to contractors or member
associations for such projects;
- the supply of farm inputs and machinery on credit; to member
associations;



- 14 -
- the provision of agricultural extension services to member
associations; and
- other activities entrusted to it by the Minister (including at
present the multiplication of improved rice seed on a nation-
wide scale).
ULIA was founded in 1940 as the Union of Chosun Irrigation Associations.
5.02      Through its member associations ULIA controls an area of 325,00 ha,
or roughly 43% of Korea's total irrigated area. Most of the new investment
in irrigation and reclamation projects is channelled through ULIA and its
members as a combination of government grants and government-guaranteed 35-
year loans at 3.5% interest.   In 1967, the Government provided a total of
W 2.8 billion (US$ 10.2 million) in grants and Wl.3 billion (us$ 4.7 million)
in long-term loans. A further W 3.1 billion (US$ 11.3 million) was provided
by the member associations (mostly in the form of labor by farmers during the
off-season) for maintenance of canals, etc., to make the total expenditure on
irrigation and reclamation during the year about W 7.2 billion (US$ 26.2
million).
5.03      Under ULIA's guidance and supervision, approximately a hundred small-
scale reservoir and pump-lift irrigation projects were completed during 1963-
1967, serving an area of about 43,000 ha. In addition, 3,000 ha of tidal
flats were successfully reclaimed by dike construction. A large number of
small fragmented areas were irrigated by the construction of stream diversions
and ponds, and considerable efforts and attention were given to upland recla-
mation, land consolidation and investigations for new projects, including the
Bank project. Also, acting on behalf of the Government, ULIA itself has com-
pleted forty groundwater development projects covering about 4,700 ha in
drought-stricken areas since 1965 and currently has three large tidal reclamation
schemes under construction, totalling about 13,000 ha in area. One of these,
the large Dongjin Gang Project, covering about 9,000 ha, is nearing completion.
5.04      ULIA's staff of more than 1,200 employees, which includes 558 uni-
versity graduates, operates from a head office in Seoul (which also serves
Kyonggi Province) and eight provincial offices. In addition, about 3,000
people, including some 500 engineers and 600 agronomists, are employed by
ULIA's member associations. ULIA's staff is competent and experienced and
has amply demonstrated its ability to take on larger, more demanding projects,
with the assistance of consultants in final design and supervision (para 5.10).
5.05      ULIA's annual budget is almost totally dependent on government
appropriations, either as grants or loans. As of December 31, 1967, ULIA's
total assets were W 10.9 billion (US$ 39 million), of which W 8.4 billion
(US$ 30 million) consisted of subloans to member associations. (ULIA's
financial statements are given in Annex 6). Under existing legislation, all
funds lent by the government to ULIA must first be channelled through the
NACF, which charges interest for its services as channel of funds. The funds
are then relent by ULIA to its members, who retain title to the irrigation
facilities constructed with the help of the loan. Repayments to the govern-
ment must pass through the same indirect channel. In order to eliminate this



- 15 -
three-stage relending and simplify the financing of the Bank project, the
government has requested that the proposed Bank loan be made directly to ULIA,
who would retain title to the project facilities until the loan had been com-
pletely repayed, when title would pass to member associations to be established
in the project area. Water charges would be collected from the farmers to
cover the cost of operation and maintenance and part of the debt service on
the proposed Bank loan.  The Government would guarantee to provide, promptly
as needed, any remaining balance required to make the semi-annual payments
of interest and principal on the proposed Bank loan.
5.o6      Headed by a president, a vice president and a board of directors,
ULIA is divided into four departments (engineering, construction, agricultural
extension, and administration); an engineering and soils laboratory; a heavy
equipment shop and a controller's office. Four-year appointments to the
offices of President and Vice President are made by the President of Korea
upon request of the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry., The directors and
other officers of ULIA are appointed by ULIA's president.
Project Management
5.07      As part of the Bank project (see para 4.01 above), a new department
would be formed, headed by an experienced, qualified engineer and under the
supervision of one of ULIA's directors. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that no appointments would be made to the posts of director
responsible for, or department head in charge of, the new department without
prior consultation with the Bank.
5.08      The new department, which would be known as the! Special Projects
Administration Department (SPAD), would be staffed mainly by transfers from
existing departments of ULIA, but some staff, especially economic, financial
and agricultural staff, would have to be recruited or seconded from other
agencies.
5.09      The SPAD would be made up of six sections as follows: (see organi-
zation chart).
(a)  The planning and design section, which would be required for
only one year, would be set up by transferring from ULIA's
engineering department the existing section which prepared the
preliminary design of the project.
(b) The construction section would be set up in the second year,
incorporating the planning and design section. It would be
responsible, with the assistance of the project- consultants,
for supervising the work of the contractors through a number
of field offices to be set up at each major construction site.
(c) The land consolidation section would be responsible for survey
and detailed planning of the consolidated irrigation units,
preparation of tender documents and supervision of the work.



(d) The operation, maintenance and extension section and its two
field offices would be headed by irrigation agronomists who
would ensure the coordination of the operation of the irriga-
tion systems with the agricultural needs of the project areas,
while providing a high level of extension to the farmers. It
would be set up in the third year.
(e) The economics section would be responsible for assessing the
economic implications of the project, conducting farm surveys,
forecasting the demand for farm credit and maintaining con-
sistency between the cropping pattern and market possibilities.
(f) The administration section would be concerned with the day-to-
day administration, financing and accounting of the project.
After completion of the proJect, the SPAD could carry out further large irri-
gation projects under the Al-]. Weather Farming Program, leaving the other
departments of ULIA to handLe the normal business of smaller scale projects.
Supervising Consultants
5.10      While ULIA has in the past been responsible for the implementation
or supervision of some fairly large projects, and while the development of
37,000 ha over a five-year period is well within the overall capacity which
ULIA has built up in recent years, the project would be by far the largest
single undertaking in ULIA"s history, and would present a number of engineer-
ing and construction problems with which UIIA's past experience is somewhat
limited.  Moreover, ULIA has recently had some difficulty in the financing
and execution of groundwater development in the drought areas where, as a
result of inadequate supervision and personal indiscretion on the part of a
former ULIA officer, serious over-spending and financial leakages occurred.
As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, therefore, ULIA would
appoint, for the duration of the construction period, supervising consultants
acceptable to the Bank.
5.11      The supervising consuLfltants would be employed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. They wouLd be responsible directly to the president
of ULIA and would assist ULIA in:
-  review of the basic hydrological data and the existing preliminary
design;
-  supervision of the final desin;rz
-  supervision of the construction of the project and certification
of payments to contractors;
- preparation of specifications, tender documents and contract forms;
- prequalification of bidders, evaluation of bids and recommendation
of awards;



- 17 -
-  supervision of testing and analysis of permanent equipment and
materials;
- preparation of quarterly and annual progress reports;
- establishment of methods, procedures and regulations for irrigation
operation and maintenance and agricultural experimentation and
extension;
- establishment of the economic staff;
- selection and training of new recruits to the SPAD; and
- setti-ng up project accounts.
To carry out these tasks, the consultants would have to provide expertise in
engineering design and construction; economic analysis and accounting; irri-
gation operation and maintenance; agricultural engineering and crop husbandry.
Consultants for seeds project preparation
5.:L2     The consultants who would prepare an investment project for improved
seeds multiplication and distribution (see para 4.10) would be responsible
directly to the president of ULIA, and would be employed on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank. The special machinery to be set up for coordina-
tion of the irrigation part of the project (see para 5.13) would also be used
for coordination of the consultants' activities which must necessarily touch
upon responsibilities for seed production presently undertaken (and probably
to continue to be undertaken) by the following entities, all under the general
jwrisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry:
- ORD:   plant breeding and selection:  breeder and stock seed pro-
duction:  extension for seed production;
- National Agricultural Products Inspection Office (NAPIO-):  admin-
istration of seed law: field inspection, certification and
laboratory analysis;
- NACF:   credit to seed growers:  distribution of certified seed to
end-users: marketing of ultimate produce.
Special Coordinating Machinery
5.13      In order to ensure the necessary degree of coordination between
ULIA and the other cooperating agencies, particularly the ORD and the NACF,
assurances have been obtained during negotiations that a special coordinating
committee would be established under the chairmanship of the Vice Minister
of Agriculture and Forestry, consisting of senior level representatives of
ULIA, NACF, ORID and MAF, and - where the preparation of the improved seeds



- 18 -
project is concerned - NAPIO. In addition to extraordinary meetings, which
could be convened at the request of any member to discuss any problem which
might arise during the implementation of the project, the committee would
meet periodically to review plans for the supply of farm inputs and credit to
the project area and reports on the progress of the project before their sub-
mission to the Bank.
Training
5.14      Korea is generally well endowed with qualified professional per-
sonnel, but not in the field of irrigation agronomy, where the disciplines of
engineering and agriculture merge. Nine short-term fellowships, to be organ-
ized with the help of the consultants, are provided for under the project,
therefore, of which five would be awarded to engineers who need training in
agronomy; two would be awarded in seadike construction and two would be
awarded to the Chief Project Agronomist and his deputy to give them additional
specialized training in irrigation, crop husbandry and mechanization. These
fellowships would be timed to meet the requirements of the project as it de-
veloped. Additional in-service training of a more informal nature would be
provided by the project consultants in connection with their supervision of
the project.
Accounts and Audit
5.15      ULIA is not presently subject to any regular external financial
audit. Therefore, and particularly in view of the recent difficulty result-
ing in the overspending of funds allocated for groundwater development, it
would be necessary to obtain an independent outside audit of all expenditure
under the proposed project. For this purpose, assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that ULIA would establish, with the assistance of the
supervising consultants, appropriate separate project accounts under the SPAD
which would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank.
The Cost of Operation and Maintenance
5.16      The project cost estimates include the full cost of operation and
maintenance during the 5-year construction period. This cost would be in-
curred mainly by the Operation, Maintenance and Extension section of the new
Special Projects Administration Department. ULIA's other costs incidental
to the project would be covered by the engineering, supervision and overhead
allowances. After the completion of the Pyongtaek system in Year 5, the annual
cost of operation and maintenance for the project as a whole would probably
continue at a level of about W 0.5 billion (US$ 1.9 million) or about US$ 50
equivalent per ha, including an allowance for the depreciation of capital in-
vestments such as pumping equipment. This figure is broken down as follows:



- 19 -
us$' .000
W Million     Equivalent
Wages and Salaries                                        21             75
Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation system:
Pumping Cost lf                                     130            464
Distribution System                                  74            264
Seadikes and spillways                              121            432
Administration                                            40            142
Agricultural Extension                                    30            107
Maintenance of Vehicles                                    8             29
Subtotal                                       424           1513  /
Contingencies (20%)                                       84            300
Depreciation allowance:
Pumps                                                17             61
Vehicles                                              5             18
Total                                          530           1893 2/
1/ Running cost, maintenance and wages of pump station staff.
2/ Inconsistent with Won total due to rounding.
Water Charges
5.17      Under the provisions of the Land Improvement Act (Law No. 948) of
1961, and related Presidential decrees, Korean farmers belonging to a LIA pay
not only the full costs of irrigation operation and maintenance (including
the agricultural extension services provided by the LIA) but also the un-
subsidized 40% portion of capital costs, with interest at 3.5%, over 35 years.
Recovery of these costs is achieved through a charge which is levied against
the area of irrigated land owned by each farmer, based on 40% of the original
capital cost of providing irrigation supply to that land plus the actual cur-
rent cost of O&M. Thus, other things being equal, farmers benefiting from
newer projects, with a higher investment cost per hectare, partially due to
inflation, pay a much higher rate than farmers receiving water from the older
irrigation systems. The nationwide average rate is about W 10,000 per ha,
(US$ 35.70/ha) with rates in individual projects ranging up to about W 20,000
per ha (US$ 71.42/ha). Due to the fact that the proposed project would involve
a relatively high investment cost per hectare, as explained above in para 4.01,
the comparable water charge for Pyongtaek and Kumgang would be W 30,000 per
ha (approx. US$ 107 per ha). This is equivalent to one-third of the incremental
farmL income before water charges expected at full development (see para 6.08).



- 20 -
5.18      If ULIA collected water charges of W 30,000 per ha in the project
area, i.e., charges based on the level of subsidy presently established by
presidential decree, it would recover about W 0.5 billion (US$ 1.8 million)
a year over and above estimated O&M costs. This would cover almost of the
US$ 3.9 million annual debt service on the proposed Bank loan, leaving only
US$ 2.1 million a year to be provided by the government. Assurances have
been obtained during negotiations that, upon completion of the irrigation
systems in Pyongtaek and Kumgang, water charges would be established, in
consultation with the Bank, at levels which would permit the recovery of
the full O&M costs and a substantial portion (at least the present 40%) of
the capital investment over 35 years. In considering the possibility of
recovering more than 40% of the investment, care would have to be taken not
to impose an undue financial burden on the farmers, or remove the economic
incentive to intensify their production.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS & FARM INCOME
A. Production
6.01      The project would lead to an expansion of the cropped area, parti-
cularly the double-cropped area, as well as a change in the cropping pattern,
as shown below:
Existing                  Projected
---------- '000 hectares ----------
Summer and Perennial Crops
Rice                                 21.2                       32.0
Soybeans                              3.2                        o.6
Vegetables                            3.2                        2.1
Orchards and pastures                 0.6                        3.4
Subtotal                        28.2                       38.1
Winter Crops
Barley                                8.2                       21.0
Vegetables, Fodder, etc               0.9                        9.0
Subtotal                         9.1                       30.0
Total for all crops:                      37.3                       68.1
Cropping Intensity                       132%                       182%
The provision of irrigation, and the use of other complementary inputs which
would become economic as soon as water became available, would lead within
three years of the provision of irrigation water to an approximate doubling
of average yields over levels currently obtained in the project area without
irrigation. These yields, and the resulting production increases are shown
below: (For details, see Annex 7).



- 21 -
Approximate Average Yields             Total Production
Present     Projected         Present     Projected    Increase
     m tons/ha -----         --------- '000 metric tons ------
Rice (white)    2.0           4.0              46          127            81
Barley          1.5           2.5              11           49            38
Other Crops     6.5          20.0              53          299          246
B. Market Prospects
6.02      The output of the project would be almost entirely destined for the
domestic market to replace imports and meet increases in demand. Market
prospects for the increased agricultural output resulting from the project
appear promising. (Details are given in Annex 8). With the projected income
and population increases, the domestic market is expected to take increasing
quantities of all agricultural products. Demand for commodities such as fruits
and vegetables (with high income elasticities) is likely to increase rapidly.
The market for rice, which is a deficit commodity and high status food, appears
good. The market for barley as a food product is likely to decline, but its
prospects as a livestock feed appear promising.
6.03      The NACF provides facilities for the marketing of surplus barley,
fruits, vegetables, flax and sweet potatoes in the project area. In addition,
farm families would themselves constitute a sizable market for the expected
increase in production of other farmers in the area.
C. Prices
6.o4      In the valuation of the agricultural output of the project area,
farm gate or ex-mill prices have been used. For most crops, the prices used
are an average for the period 1964-67 and can be considered reasonably con-
servative in view of a persistant upward trend in recent years. They are also
generally in line with world market prices. Downward adjustments have been
made, however, in the prices of rice, barley and soybeans, which were not in
line with projected future world market prices.
6.05      For rice a price of US$ 150 (42,000 won) per metric ton has been
us-ed in this report instead of the recently announced official price of 52,000
won per metric ton. The price used in this report is also below current
world prices 1/, which have increased sharply because of rising world demand
for rice coupled with poor harvests in Thailand, Burma and Viet-Nam. A
reasonable long-term world average, in terms of Bangkok 5% broken, would be
about US$ 140 per metric, cif Pusan. Bangkok 5% broken rice, however, is of
a quality inferior to Korean rice, which in the past has even enjoyed a premium
of US$ 4-6 per ton above the price of Taiwan rice. The price used in this
report, which is about 14% below the prevailing support price, is therefore
a reasonable estimate of the long-term future rice price behavior in Korea.
17   An average of US$ 209 per metric ton, fob Bangkok (5% broken), for the
period January to September 1968.



- 22 -
6.o6      The barley price in Korea has remained above the world market price
for some years. Currently it is about 65% higher than the price of barley,
cif European ports. This may be due to the fact that barley is consumed
primarily as human food in Korea, and not as livestock feed as in most other
countries of the world. In this report a price of US$ 60 (17,000 won) per
metric ton has been used. This is in line with projected long-run average
world market price of US$ 56, cif European ports. The reason for pricing
barley at livestock feed prices is that, with rising incomes, human consump-
tion of barley is unlikely to keep pace with population growth, so that any
significant increase in oroduction is instead likely to be of more importance
in relation to livestock development. For soybeans, a price of US$ 100
(28,000 won) per metric ton has been used in this report in order to bring it
down in line with projected long-run average price of US$ 90, cif European
ports.
6.07      Given the acreage, yield and price assumptions mentioned above,
the gross annual production value of the project area is expected to increase
from the present level of 2.7 billion won (US$ 9.5 million) to 9.1 billion won
(US$ 32.5 million) annually at full development, which is expected to be
reached within eight years of the start of the project.
D. Farm Incomes
6.o8      The potential benefits obtainable under the project, at full de-
velopment, would provide considerable incentive for farmers. The expected
increase in income from a single hectare, growing rice and barley in rotation,
which is the most common rotation anticipated, may be summaried as follows:
Before Development     At Full Development
U$                     US$
W 000   Equivalent     w 000     Equivalent
Gross value of production           99.3       355         215.5        770
Less produce consumed on the farm   44.0       157          50.0        179
Gross cash income                   55.3       198 1/      165.5       591
Cash production costs               28.9       103          47.3       169
Net cash income before project                     1/
charges                           26.4        95         118.2       422
Charges:
Water:   (O & M)                 -         -           15.0         54
(Debt Service)          -          -           15.0        54
Taxes                           3.1        11           3.2        11
Net Cash Income                     23.3        84 1/       85.0        303 -/
1/ Inconsistencies due to rounding
2/ Including custom charges of 16,600 for mechanized cultivation and spraying.



- 23 -
This would mean more than a trebling of net cash income and a doubling of total
net income, including subsistence.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The major quantifiable benefit to be derived from the project would
be the substantial increase of agricultural production and farm incomes de-
scribed above. This would result from the provision of irrigation and other
facilities enabling farmers to increase both their cropped area and their
yields per hectare. The additional output resulting from the project would
consist of 81,000 tons of rice, 37,000 tons of barley, 136,000 tons of vege-
tables and 84,O0o tons of fodder, in addition to smaller amounts of fruits and
other minor crops. The additional grain production resulting from -the project
wouldL be equivalent to about 10% of Korea's total grain imports in 1968. The
project would thus contribute substantially towards closing Korea's food grain
deficit and contributing to her balance of payments position through annual
savings in grain imports estimated at about US$ 17 million.
7.02      At full development, the annual gross value of production from the
project area is expected to reach about W 9 billion (over US$ 30 million),
more than triple the present level. After deducting production costs, the
net value of agricultural production at full development would reach W 6.3
billion (US$ 22.5 million) of which more than two-thirds would consist of the
value of rice and barley. This net production would represent a direct bene-
fit to the economy of about W 4.2 billion (US$ 15 million) after deducting
project operation and maintenance costs.
7.03      In calculating the project's internal rate of return to the economy,
it weLs assumed that the project would have a useful life of 60 years based
on the expected useful life of the seadikes, canals and structures, during
which time it would be necessary to replace the pumping equipment once (at
the end of 30 years) and vehicles every 5 years. On this basis the project
would have an ovrerall rate of return of about 14% with individual rates of
13% fior Pyongtaek and 15% for Kumgang. (See Annex 9) In view of the con-
serveLtive prices used in valuing the benefits, and bearing in mind the project's
relatively high cost per hectare, these rates of return should be considered
acceptable.
7.04      The analysis above does not take into account any indirect benefits
of the project, such as the impact on the attitudes of farmers which would
be achieved by the high level of extension services, the degree of land con-
solidlation and the introduction of mechanization to be provided under the
project. Nor does it take into account the benefits which would accrue to
ULIA as a result of its reorganization and the forthcoming training of its
staff through overseas fellowships and the services of the project consultants.
Similarly, no account has been taken of the additional benefits likely to
accrue from the eventual establishment of an improved seeds project, of which
the costs of preparation have been included in project costs. Finally, no
account has been taken of the improvement of domestic and industrial water
supply in the Pyongtaek area which would result from the project.



- 24 -
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The project would develop about 37,000 ha under irrigation and
would provide land consolidation, mechanization and a higher level of agri-
cultural extension. It is an important part of the Korean Government's All
Weather Farming Program and would contribute substantially to eliminating
the country's deficit in foodgrains while increasing the production of higher
value crops. The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 45.0 million
equivalent with a maturity of 30 years including 7 years grace. The borrower
would be the Union of Land Improvement Associations (ULIA).
8.02      Among others, the following assurances have been obtained during
negotiations:
(a) The government wou:ld not permit the upstream diversion of any
water required for the project during periods of low river
flow (para 4.04);
(b)  The government, acting through the NACF, would give priority
to the project area in the supply of inputs and in the alloca-
tion of credit funds and an annual plan for the distribution of
the inputs and the provision of credit would be agreed between
ULIA, NACF and the government (para 4.08);
(c)  The government would construct the necessary power distribution
facilities promptly and would at all times guarantee to supply
the full power requirements of the project (para 4.09);
(d) No appointments would be made to the posts of director responsible
for, or head of, SPAD wiithout prior consultation with the Bank
(para 5.07);
(e) As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, ULIA would
appoint for the duration of the construction period supervising
consultants acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para 5.10 and 5.11);
(f) A special coordinating conmmittee would be established (para 5.12);
(g) ULIA would establish appropriate separate accounts for the project
which would be audited annually by an independent auditor accept-
able to the Bank (para 5.15); and
(h) Upon completion of the irrigation systems, water charges would be
established in consultation with the Bank (para 5.18).



WATER SUPPLY
PYONGTAEK
'dater Spl
Water supply for the Pyongtaek project would come from the kn; nf
Chong reservoir to be created by constructing a sea dike across the estuyr.
at the mouth of the Ansong Chong. Two streams, the Ansong Chong and the
Chinwi Chong having a total drainage area of 1644 km2 drain into the res;-rvo;.
Stations to record inflow into the estuary were established under a UNDF
program but review of the record indicates that the stations are subject
to backwater from tidal action and are not reliable.
Review of rainfall records shows mean annual rainfall over the basin
of 1300 mm.. Extremes indicate that about once in 20 years the rainfall would
be as low as half the annual or about 650 mm. The proportion of runoff t(
rainfall is relatively high in this basin because of the steep watersheds and
the fact most annual'rainfall is concentrated in a three-month rainy period.
Very conservatively, if a runoff coefficient of 20% is used in a very dry year
the inflow to the reservoir would be of the order of 220 Mi3 which would he
about three times the water required for the project area.
A portion of the project area, 4850 ha would be served by the Jangan
pumping plant located on the Nam Yang reservoir to be created by completion of
the Nam Yanig sea dike. Drainage area tributary to the reservoir is 210 km2
of which 40% is the reservoir itself. The runoff coefficient would be higher
and in this case the very dry year inflow would be in the order of 60 Man. Water
can be transferred from Ansong Chong reservoir to Nam Yang through the irri-
gation system in the very rare event should it be necessary.
Irrigation Water Requirements
The cropping pattern for the Pyongtaek is:
CroP                 Area (ha)
Early rice                3,100
Late rice                15,700
Fodder                      100
Vegetables                   800
Orchards                    400
20,100
Double cropping is practiced on the rice land as a winter cro).
Water requirements for each crop were computed by 10-day intervals
using the Blaney Criddle method. Factors for k were based on experience in
Korea and reflect farm irrigation efficiency of about 60%. The farm wa',er
requirements as computed for the ten-day intervals were then compared wiIh



ANNEX 1
Page 2
effective rainfall recorded in 1955. This year was chosen as it was the
lowest rainfall of recent years. It was found that in many of the periods
rainfall is adequate to meet the crop water requirements but that there was
a small residual need for irrigation water in most periods and that in one
period at the height of the growing season, all water requirements would hav-
had to be supplied by irrigation. The capacity of the system has thus been
sized to deliver 1.3 liters per second per ha which will satisfy requirements
for water without rain.
Operation of Reservoir
The Ansong Chong reservoir would have a total capacity o' lh0 I n3
of which 80 MN3 is considered active in the range of water surface from elev
0 to 3.5 m. A study made for 1955 indicated that concurrent inflow to the
reservoir would nearly satisfy the withdrawals to be made for irrigation and
only 8 im3 of storage was actually used. The total water required for irri-
gation for the year of study was 80 Mm3 which is roughly 4000 m3/ha. This
amount with the rainfall was sufficient to meet the crop water requirements.
Adequacy of Supply
Although good records of inflow to the Ansong Chong and the Nam Yang
are not available, there is ample margin of runoff into the two reservoirs to
fully satisfy the irrigation requirement of the project area. This is par-
ticularly true in view of the large capacity of the two reservoirs compared
to the irrigation demands.
Sediment
Based on an estimated effective erosion rate of 1 mm per year over
1644 km2 drainage area the annual sediment inflow to Ansong Chong reservoir
would be 1.6 MA; per year. About one half of this amount would remain in
suspension and pass through the reservoir and be discharged with the spills.
Over 100 years the estimated sediment accumulation would be 58 Mm3 which would
not impair operation of the reservoir during its economic life.
Floods
The gate structure of the Ansong Chong and Nam Yang sea dikes must
have sufficient discharge capacity to evacuate a design flood without raising
the water surface elevation high enough to flood low lying lands along the
reservoir.  Lands which could be damaged are 1 m above the normal water surface
of each reservoir, + 4.5 m elev in case of Ansong Chong and + 1.0 m in case of
Nam Yang. For design purposes a storm having a recurrence interval of once in
a hundred years was chosen. Such a storm would have a rainfall excess of 230 mm
and the resulting floods would be:
Ansong Chong       Nam Yanp.
Peak inflow                       5000 m3/sec      1OOO m3 /e
Volume                             h66 Mm3           36 In3



ATNEX 1
Page 3
Routing these .loods through the reservoirs indicates that the floods cart be
evacuated through the gate structures within a 48-hour period without exceed-
ing the maximum allowable water surface.
Desalinization of Reservoirs
Both the Ansong Chong and Nam Yang reservoir basins are at preseTt
part of their respective estuaries and contain water nearly as saline as sea
water (33,000 ppm). Before these reservoirs are useful as an irrigation
supply the present saline water must be displaced by fre!sh. There will also
be some leaching of salt from the underlying sediments which have been subient1
to inundation of saline water for many thousands of years. Under average
zunoff conditions and assuming a mixing efficiency of 75% it is estimated
that after one year of operation the reservoir water would be about 1700 ppm
salt; and would be useable for paddy. By the end of the second season of
operation, salt content should be below 700 ppm and useable for all crops.
Continued operation should improve the situation to where ultimateLy the water
in the reservoir should be only slightly more saline than the inflow which
from samples averages less than 100 ppm dissolved solids.
KUMGANG
Water Supply
Water supply for the Kungang project would come from the unregulated
flow of the Kungang River supplemented in low flow periods by releases from
the Tapchang Re'servoir located on the Nonsan Chou, a tributary of the Knugang.
The KuN!ang River is the third largest in Korea with a drainage area of
850C km4 of which about 7200 km2 in considered contributing to flows passing
the project area.  In an average year the flow is h200 Mm3 and in a dry year
having a recurrence interval of once in twenty years about lo00 Mm3. These
flows far exceed in total the water needed for project purposes. However,
the flows are highly erratic and reach their lowest point just prior to the
onset of the rainy season.
Three pumping plants would pump water from the Kumgang. The plants
are spaced along the river but aU are at the head of the estuary and are subject
to tidal influence. During extreme low flow periods the salt water fresh
interface mDves upstream and as the saline water reaches each pump site,
pumping from the river will have to cease until the flow in the Kumgang increases
to the point that the salt water interface is again moved downstream. During
such periods water for irrigation would come from the releases from the Tapchang
River to supply the areas served by the two lower pumping plants. Reservoir
water cannot be supplied to the farthest upstream plant but the salt water
penetration seldom reaches that plant.
A staff gauge was installed on the river at the upstream pumping
station but because of the tidal effect records here are not meaningful.
A station was established about 43 km upstream at Kongju in 1932 and records
of flows are available since that time except for the World War II and Korean
War periods. 1rom this record and precipitation records 1955 was choser for
more detailed study as it  represented the year of lowest runoff in the
period for which dependable records are available.



ANNEX 1
Page a
From studies of analysis of water samples taken at various pokn- .
along the Kumgang a correlation between positions of the salt, water inir. r!'
and the flows in the river was prepared which showed the salt penetratIe '.n
extent up to the Yongduripunping plant (existing plant farthest downstrnim)
with flows of less than 15 m-'/sec to the vicinity of the Kongyong plant (mid-
dle plant) with flows less than 11 m3/sec and to   Pongjong  (the highes  -'an-,
with flows less than 7 m3/sec. The period of such low flows was then anaiye.i
in detai1 for 1955 and it was found that the Yongduri plant would have na': to
cease operation for a 50-day period, May 10-June 30, the Kongyong from 7Ia;- 20
to June 30 and that the Pongjongplant could meet all project requirements
until June 30. Releases from Tapchong Reservoir would be required in the
magnitude of about 2.0 Mm3 to firm up the supply during June.
Tapchong Reservoir was constructed in 1942 with an initial capacity
of 24 Mm3 to supply 600 ha in the Namsong Project. The capacity of the reservoir
is now estimated at 21 Y=3 due to siltation and it is proposed to raise the
operating level by 1.7 meter to increase the capacity to 30 Mm3 with the in-
cremental 9.0 MO3 available to the Kumgang Project. The drainage basin
tributary to the site is 218 km2. The average year inflow is about 128 In3
and the one in 20-dry year about 45 Mm3. Since construction the reservoir has
filled and spilled every year. It normally fills during the winter and starts
spilling about December. There is adequate water to fill the reservoir to the
enlarged capacity.
Irrigation Requirements
These were determined in the same manner as for the Pyongtaek project
and total about 67 Mm3 in a dry year. This is equivalent to 4h00 m3/ha.
Operation of Project
The annual flow of the Kumgang varies widely from year to year but
the period of lowest flow access is usually about the first week of June and
is believed the result of low flow at end of the dry season before the summer
rains come and the use of water by upstream pumping plants. In nearly every
year in latter part of May and early June the two downstream pumping plants
would have to be staffed and the water supply would have to come from the Pong-
Jong plant to the extent pumping these would not induce salt intrusion. Any
amount not available from that plant would be supplied from the 9.0 Mm3 of
stored water from Tapchong Reservoir.  By early July in all years for which
records are available there has been sufficient rain to increase flows in the
Kumgang and all pumping plants can operate without restriction.
Adequacy of Supply
The stored water in Tapchong Reservoir should be ample to supply
project water requirements during those low flow periods when pumping from
the river would be restricted. Tapchong water cannot be physically delivered
to the primary service area (3550 ha) served by the Pongjong pumping plent.
Under extreme low flows conditions estimated to be of about 10-15 days zuration
with a recurrence interval of 1 in 10 years this area could suffer some water
shortage. This would occur at the transplant season and it is believed --ans-
planting could be postponed until water is available without serious ef:ect
on yields.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Wat.r RIghts
Sixty-nine small irrigation schemes supply 32,000 ha primarily by
pumping froh the Kumgang are located upstream from the project area. The
Government further has under consideration the Yongdom project which would
involve storage and an out of basin diversion for hydro power and irrigation
of 15,000 ha in the vicinity of Iri. There is more than ample water in total
in the Kumgang to allow such a diversion and to fully satisfy existing upstre
projects.  However, any additional depletions which would take water during
the low flow period when salt water encroachment is experienced would be
detrimental to the project. Therefore, assurances would be needed that any
future projects would be planned and operated so as not t.o further deplete
flows in the Kumgang at critical low flow periods.






ANNEX 2
AGRICULTURE IN THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Existing Agriculture
1.        Pyongtaek and Kumgang have similar land use patterns.  All valley
land, whether irrigated or not, is occupied by paddy fields. The paddies in
nar-row valleys between foothills are terraced. On the broadside of the foot-
hills, where the slope is gentle, are upland farms, orchards and village
compounds. The upland fields are crudely terraced or not at all. Most of
the! orchards have some benching, some being more elaborate than others.
Further up the hills and on steeper slopes, crops give way to woodlots, mostly
pine.
2.        Over this general landscape, scattered areas are already being
irrigated by small LIA schemes previously completed. The Project Area there-
for-e consists of numerous non-contiguous blocks of paddy fields with fringes
of upland, cut up by hills and existing irrigation schemes. Such dispersion,
however, provides a convenient opportunity to study the contrast between
crop performances on rainfed and irrigated fields.
3.        The main summer crop of the project area is rice.  Only small
portions of the paddy fields, mainly those in the narrow valleys, are planted
to winter crops after the rice harvest; this is negligible in Pyongtaek and
less than a quarter of the paddy area in Kumgang. The main summer crops on
the upland fields are soybean, Chinese cabbage and sweet potato. The minor
crops are sorghum, chillies, sesame and millet. The uplands are fully planted
in the winter.. On both paddy and upland, the dominant winter crop is barley.
The present double cropping indices in Pyongtaek and Kumgang are 126% and 139%
respectively.
4.        The Pyongtaek project area is formed by parts of 6 counties (Gun)
of two Provinces. The average farm holdings of these 6 counties is 1.11 ha,
which is somewhat larger than the national average of 0.89 ha. The same for
the 5 counties (also 2 provinces) related to the Kumgang project area are
0.592 ha. Since land reform (began in 1949), the great majority of the farmers
have become owmer farmers. Land tenure is no longer a constraint in Korea.
Land consolidation has been carried out in nearby LIA irrigation schemes, but
not in the project area. Having seen the improvement of crop yield on consol-
idated land, farmers generally welcome land consolidation.
5.        Under the Office of Rural Development (ORD) of Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forestry (MAF), there are Research Institutes at the national
level, experiment stations of the provincial level; and. fairly well staffed
extension offices (locally called Guidance Offices) at National, Provincial,
County and District levels. Where LIA's are formed, they hire additional
extension workers to serve member farmers.
6.        The distribution of inputs (seeds, fertilizers, pesticides) and pro-
viEion of institutional rural credit are the responsibilities of the National
Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) of MAF. The NACF has branch
offices in each province and county and warehouses down to the district level.
The entire cost of improved seed multiplication is borne by the Government.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Improved rice seeds are supplied by local cooperatives to farmers at the
price of first grade paddy. Fertilizer is supplied with a small subsidy, at
prices fixed by the Government; or if bartered with paddy, at fixed barter
ratios. Pesticides are sold to farmers also at a slightly subsidized price
by NACF. But under a program to encourage groups of farmers to adopt collect-
ive pest control over large areas, pesticides are supplied at half price to
such groups organized either by ORD extension offices or by LIAs. Unlike
fertilizers, which are sold solely by the Government, pesticides can also be
bought from private dealers. When farmers buy inputs from NACF on credit,
they pay an interest of 15% per annum. NACF now supplies about 30% of the
total credit needs in the project areas; the balance is supplied by private
sources at 50% per annum interest rate.
7.        Use of improved seeds and fertilizers is already a common practice
among Korean farmers for rice and barley; but much less so for other crops.
The current average rate of fertilizer application on rice in Korea is about
one-half of the rates recommended by ORD based on UNDP experiments, but in
progressive LIAs area where land consolidation, irrigation and drainage are
completed, farmers are already using fertilizers up to the level of ORD 1968
recommendations. Pest control, as one of the basic improvement measures,
lags behind the extension of seeds and fertilizers in its effectiveness.
The most prevailing pests seen on rice are rice blast disease, rice stem
borer and barnyard grass as weeds.
8.        Land preparation is done entirely by buffalo and hand, although a
small number of power tillers have recently been introduced into Korea.
Weeding, fertilizer application and harvesting are done by hand; pest control
by hand sprayers or hand dusting; and threshing by foot-pedaled rotational
threshers.
9.        Rice yield on rainfed paddies averages 2 metric tons (MT) of white
rice or about 3 MT of paddy in normal years, which compares favorably even
with that of the irrigated rice in many Southeast and South Asian countries.
Contrast with the much higher yielding irrigated paddies, however, reveals
the potential of further significant yield increase. Twenty-two LIA's with
a total paddy area of 12,258 ha (out of a total of 272 LIAs with a total
paddy area of about 300,000 ha) have each reached an average yield of more
than 4 MT of rice in 1966. Fields of all other crops except the Chinese
cabbage (for making kim chee, a staple rural diet), are much less intensively
cared for than rice fields. The yields are generally low.
B.   Constraints on Crop Production Increase
10.       The overall constraint in both Pyongtaek and Kumgang is the lack of
controlled irrigation and drainage. Drought is the number one hazard. Late
arrival of rain in May or drought spells in June would delay rice trans-
planting. Drought in July and August, when the water requirement of rice is
at the peak, would reduce the number of heads per plant. It drought occurs
in late August and September when rice is flowering and setting seeds, the
yield is drastically reduced because of partially filled or empty grains.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Furthermore, the vicissitudes of the climate increase the risk associated
with purchased inputs, especially fertilizer, and discourage their use in
areas without controlled water supply.
11.       On the other hand, heavy rain during summer months of normal years,
coupled with poor drainage, cause overflow of rivers and canals and a general
rice of the groundwater level; inundating the low land near the river mouth,
along river banks and in low pockets on the valley bottoms.   While the effect
of the flashing floods is temporary, the continuous stagnant waterlogging of
the low pockets checks rice growth, induces physiological diseases and reduces
yield.
12.       Furthermore, the slow drainage of the valley land in general leaves
paddies too wet for plowing for planting barley immediately after rice harvest
in mid or late October. If the sowing of barley is delayed until the latter
part of November, a poor stand results from exposure of young seedlings to
low temperature, frost and snow cover. Poor drainage is the main reason why
most of the valley paddies are left in fallow during the winter. On higher
and terraced paddies, farmers rush in barley sowing without adequate land
preparation, except for the digging of shallow furrows about 4 feet apart to
help surface drainage.   Such extensive cultural practice results in low yields.
The low yield and low price of barley and the fact that both the rice-harvest/
barley-sowing and the barley-harvest/rice-transplanting have each to be
comp]eted within a short period of 10 days to 2 weeks making the planting
of barley on paddy fields unattractive to most farmers except the most
industrious ones.
13.       On the upland, the main constraints are the lack of spring irri-
gation and the soil acidity (pH5-5.5), which is on the high side for the crops
grown, i.e. barley, soybean, cabbage, potato, etc.
14.       As mentioned before, the prevalence of rice blast disease is a
matter of concern. Unless its control is made more effective, it will take
a heaLvier toll of the bigger crop which could otherwise be obtained after
the project.
15.       Finally, the limited credit resources available to NACF (meeting
only 30% of the present level need) are a constraint to the projected large
increase in use of inputs as envisaged for the project area.
c.   Means of Agricultural Development
Land Improvements and Development
16.       The project area of 37,350 ha will receive land improvement 'treat-
ments as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Land Consoli-  Terracing or      Benching     Reclamation
dation and     benching and       without         and
Irrigation     Irrigation       Irrigation    Irrigation   Total
(ha)           (ha)             (ha)           (ha)     (ha)
Pyongtaek        10,750          4,500           1,600         4,850 1/ 21,700
Kumgang          10,750 2/       4,260             500           140 3/ 15,650
Total            21,500          8,760           2,100         4,990      37,350
1/   4,400 ha. Tidal land, 350 ha. of salt farms and 100 ha. of depressions.
2/   1,650 ha. of which have already been consolidated.
3/   Depressions.
17.       The Land Consolidation Section of the Special Projects Administration
Department of ULIA will carry out the planning, survey and mapping for land
improvement work listed above with assistance from local LIA engineers. Con-
tractors will do the actual field work. Contracts will be called on the basis
of sample designs for about 10% of the total area. The size of the consoli-
dated tracts will vary with topography, but will be around 0.3 ha in average.
Appropriate number of these tracts will form irrigation unit of 5 ha. 2,100
ha of higher upland will be benched but remain non-irrigated.
18.       The 4,400 ha of tidal land in Pyongtaek will undergo a 3-year
period of desalinization by controlled leaching and drainage. This work can
begin only after the completion of the irrigation and drainage systems. The
5 ha irrigation units will be developed as in rest of the project areas, but
no consolidation is planned for the land is not fragmented to begin with.
The disposal of the reclaimed land is pending government's decision whether
the whole or part of the land will be managed by ULIA as large seed farms.
Those to be allocated to farmers, if any, will have to be divided into tracts.
The cost of such division is not included in the budget of this project.
19.       Some 6,000 ha of the existing upland will be turned into paddy
field by terracing and irrigation.. Nearly 4,500 ha of wood land, with slope
of from less than 9% up to 16%, will be cut over, plowed up, will be levelled
and benched to provide new land for upland crops, orchards and pasture. The
2,100 ha which will remain non-irrigated after the completion of the project
consists of the whole of the existing and new pasture land and a part of the
existing and new orchards.
20.       The farm development work thus involves the improvement of the ex-
isting 28,015 ha by consolidation, terracing and benching; reclamation and
desalinization of 4,400 ha of tidal land; 590 ha of salt farms and depressions
and development of 4,500 ha of low hills now under woodlots.
21.       Providing each consolidated tract of paddy land with direct access
to irrigation and drainage ditches, the latter connected to the project
drainage system, is the basic improvement which makes projection of rice



ANNEX 2
Page 5
yiield increasie and expansion of double cropping system possible. Benching
and irrigation help to improve soil conservation, and increase yield of
upland and orchard crops.
Increased Use of Inputs
22.       The basic land improvement mentioned above will remove the drought
hazard from nearly all project area and improve drainage of the valley paddy
except the 4,700 ha of the bottom land.   Unlike countries in South and South-
east Asia, al:L Korean rice are of Japonica varieties responsive to fertilizer
application. With irrigation assured, Korean farmers are expected to readily
increase the use of fertilizers.
23.       The project envisages a significant increase in fertilizer appli-
cation rates for all crops under irrigation. In rice, the per hectare
application rates of N, P20 and k 0 are expected to increase by 100% from
the present 60, 30, 30 Kg. respectively to 120, 60, and 60 Kg. at full
development (year 8 in Pyongtaek and year 7 in Kumgang respectively).
Similarly the corresponding rates for irrigated barley will increase from
the present 40, 20, 20 Kg to 100, 80, 50 Kg per hectare at full development.
The recommended higher rates for rice and barley are based on recommendations
of the Office of Rural Development of MAF, which, in turn, are based on the
field experimental results of the UNDP Soil Fertility Project, 1963-69.
Supply of fertilizers to farmers in the Project Area at the recommended rates
is not expected to be a problem.
24..      ULIA will be responsible for making arrangements for supplying im-
proved seeds to farmers in the Project Area. Whether the local LIA will supply
seeds directly to farmers or make arrangements for NACF to do it will be
decided by the Government later. If the latter course is taken, ULIA will
propose variety, quantity and time of delivery. It is expected that rice and
barley varieties with low yield but better tolerance against dry spells will
be replaced by improved varieties with higher yield under assured irrigation.
Equal attention will be paid by ULIA in supplying better seeds for crops other
tham rice and barley, which have been rather lax in the past. Farmers will
propagate their own nursery trees for pears and peaches for the-new plantings.
25.       With gradual rise in crop yields and farm income, farmers are ex-
pected to increase their plant protection effort. Collective spraying is to
be organized by ULIA over most of the Project Area, a task made easy by the
forming of 5 ha irrigation units, and the introduction of high speed power
sprayers. Special attention will be paid to protection against rice borer
and rice blast disease, the twin major maladies of Korea rice today. The
chemicals to be used for controlling pests on various crops have been worked
out; in Korea. New pesticides are continuously being tested and added to the
list of extension. Supply of pesticides, currently through both NACF and
private dealers, will not be a problem. In the Project Area, ULIA will
propose kind, and quantity of pesticides needed, and make arrangements with
NACF for timely delivery in lump quantities for use by farmer's groups
organized for collective plant protection.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
26.       Two hundred 35-40 HP wheel tractors will be procured under the
project. 100 will be allocated to Pyongtaek and 100 to Kumgang. They will
mainly be employed to service valley paddies where rice and barley will be
double cropped and the farm schedule is the tightest. Each tractor is ex-
pected to work from 750 to 800 hours in a year for land preparation, harvest-
ing, liming and spraying of rice and land preparation and harvesting of
barley. On the basis of main work performed, land preparation and combining,
about 10,000 ha of rice and 6,000 ha of barley will be served. The tractor
service is costed at an average of 1,000 won or $3.63 per hour. On basis of
estimated working hours, it comes to approximately 11,100 won or $40 per ha
for rice and 5,500 won or $20 per ha for barley. Even with tractor service,
certain chores still have to be done by hand; such as nursery care, trans-
planting, fertilizer top dressing, irrigation and weeding of rice and
fertilization, weeding and irrigation for barley. However, if the self labor
is costed at 150 won and hired labor at 300 won per man day, the total labor
cost per ha, including animal labor, of rice without tractor service will
be about 50% high than with tractor service; and about 30% higher in case of
barley. Limited by area that can be serviced by the 200 tractors during the
10 to 14 days between harvesting and planting of the two crops, about 20,000
ha of rice and 12,000 ha of barley grown on paddy land will not have tractor
service until more tractors are brought in. The majority of farmers, there-
fore, will continue to depend entirely on animal and manual labor. With
experience gained from operating these 200 tractors, the ULIA plans to buy
more tractors later on with either Government funds or foreign loans.
27.       Extension service personnel will be increased in the Project Area
by the employment of new agricultural staff as a part of the new Special
Project Administration Department and employment by the local LIAs to be
organized in the Project Area. A gradual annual increase in the amount of
inputs used per ha for various crops is projected for each year until the
rates projected for the full development years are reached. Based on such
phasing annual demonstration, education and training programs will be planned
and executed by ULIA with the help of ORD and NACF.
Increase in Crop Yields
28.       With the basic land improvement, increased use of inputs and
strengthened extension service, significant yield increase is projected for
all crops under irrigation, as shown in the report. Such yield projection
is considered reasonable in comparison with existing yields obtained in
countries with comparable conditions as well as past performance of more
progressive local LIA where irrigation has already been provided.



ANNEX 3
PROJECTS WORKS AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
PYONGTAEK
The works consist of completion of the Nam Yarg sea dike, construc-
tion of the Ansong Chong sea dike, primary and relift pump stations and an
irrigation distribution system to. serve 20,100 ha.
Nam Yang Dike. Construction of this dike was started as a private
endeavor under license granted November 9, 1964. The licensee was to complete
thes sea dike by December 31, 1969 and reclaim 2530 ha for expansion of paddy
field. The license is subject to cancellation if construction has not prog-
ressed according to schedule. The licensee has not put; adequate resources
into construction of the project and the Government has now decided, to cancel
the license and complete the work as part of the project. No retroactive
financing of completed work is involved in the project.
The work remaining to be done is construction of the gated outlet
structure and the closure of the deep water section of the dam. The wing dikes
and excavation for the outlet structure are virtually complete. Total length
of the dike is about 2.0 km of which about 900 m is now done. However, about
70% of the embankment quantity remain to be placed. The completion involves
similar considerations as for the Ansong Chong dike.
Ansong Chong Dike.  This dike across a rarrow point of the Ansong
Chong estuary would be about 3200 m long with a maximnu height of fill of 18 m
and crest width of 22 m at elevation + 8.5 m above mean sea level. The dike
would be rockfill with a clay and loam fill on the land side. Slopes of fill
would be 1:2 on the sea side with a 4.0 m berm at elevation 5.70.   The slope
on the land side would be very flat, 1:40.
The sluice or outlet structure would be founded on rock and contain
15 gates 10 m x 6 m. The sluice gate structure would be constructed in the
dry by building a coffer dam around the site. A rock sill would be built up
across the entire profile by dumping large rock from barges. Final closure
will be made by dumping rock from a narrow gauge railway line during a period
of neap tide with the gate structure open to help reduce the velocity of
water over the sill. Once closure is effected the clay portion would be con-
structed and protected with rip rap. The tidal range is as much as 8 m and
tidal velocities quite high.  It is believed that before closure such velo-
cities would be on order of 6 r/sec.
Dikes constructed under similar conditions have been completed in
Ka,rea and demonstrate the reasonableness of constructing the Ansong Chong and
completion of the Nam Yang.
Pumping Plants. Pumping plant sites were chosen to have a suitable
rock foundation where high ground lies immediately behind the site so the
pump discharge line would be as short as possible. Each of the first stage
pumping stations would deliver water to more than one main canal starting at



ANNEX 3
Page 2
different elevations.  The pump sets are chosen to match the varying capacities
and lifts. First stage pumps would serve canals generally located at the 10 m
level. Relift pumps or second stage would be built along the main canals to
lift water to laterals at different elevations but generally at the 20 m level.
Two third stage pumps would be used to lift water to the 25 m level.
All pumps would be electrically driven and would operate continuously
for 24 hours a day during periods of peak demand. On an average, they would
operate about 1000 hours a year. All pumps would be installed in permanent
buildings. Living quarters for the operators would also be constructed.
Transmission lines to bring electric power to the pump sites would
be constructed by the Korea Electric Power Company, and not be financed by
the project. The Power Company would amortize the cost of lines through power
revenues from the project and other customers who might be served.
Irrigation Distribution aystem. The canal system would have a capacity
to deliver 1.3 liters/sec/ha to all areas served. The system would be unlined
except for those sections where excavation during construction disclosed porous
areas which justify lining to reduce losses. These are expected to be minor
in extent.
The area to be irrigated is irregularly broken and intersected by
ridges and hills. Some 47 short tunnels with an aggregate length of 6 km would
be constructed. These would be concrete lined over the wetted part of the
section. Where deep cuts are encountered a cut and cover section would be
adopted so any slippage of material on the cut banks would not go into the
canal.  Canal structures as needed would be constructed of concrete.   Turnouts
would be a gated pipe outlet to each approximately 5 ha tract.   The land con-
solidation to be carried out wil] provide a regular pattern of alternating
irrigation farm laterals and drains to serve the individual holdings. Drainage
outlets for surface water would be improved and obstructions removed. A con-
trolled water surface elevation in Ansong Chong and Nam Yang reservoirs will
improve drainage conditions on the low lying lands surrounding the reservoirs.
Access roads to pump sites would be constructed under the project.
General improvement of the road network would be carried out under the regular
budget of the Ministry of Construction. Access roads to individual holdings
would be constructed as a part of the land consolidation work.
KUH3AW,z
The works consist of raising the operating level of Tapchang Reservoir,
constructing primary and relift pumps and an irrigation system to serve
15,150 ha.
Tapchang Reservoir, The spillway at the existing dam would be raised
1.7 m by adding a concrete lift to the crest of the existing overflow spillway.
To avoid raising the maximum water surface in the reservoir, siphon spillways
would be constructed over a portion of the spillway to increase the discharge



ANNEX3
Page 3
capacity per meter of length of spillway crest.  The spillway crest as modified
would have the same discharge capability with the same water surface elevation
as before the modification. The 1.7 meter increase in operating level would
add 9.0 Mm3 to the capacity of the reservoir and would be available for use by
the Kungang project.
Pumping Plants. Three pumping plants would provide the project water
supply from the Kumgang River. The farthest upstream plant at Pongjong was
sited at a relatively narrow reach of the river on the outside of a bend in
the channel. The site was primarily chosen for its good foundation and the
stable river channel condition which should insure availability of water even
w:Lth low flows at the pump intake.
The middle station at Kanggyong requires a special arrangement on
the intake so the supply to the intake can be drawn alternatively from the
Kumgang, the canal from the Pongjong plant or releases from Tapchang Reservoir
into the Nonsan Chong or any combination of those. A low dam and gate struc-
ture would be constructed to exclude Kumgang flows when that water is too
saliner. A siphon under the Nonsan Chong would feed water from the Pongjong
pumping station to the intake. Suitable gates would be installed on the intake
structure so water source can be selectively controlled.
The farthest downstream plant at Yongdu Ri is an existing plant and
would be incorporated into the system.
Canal system. The layout of the system is similar to that of the
Pyongtaek project. The main additional feature is that a connecting canal
would have sufficient capaoity to transfer water from the PongJong pump station
tc the Kanggyong station and from the Kanggyong plant to the service area sup-
plied by the Yongdu Ri plant.
There would be one reach of canal on the discharge line from the Pong-
icong plant where because of the steep rock slope, a concrete bench flumr would
be required for a distance of about 2 km. Twenty-four short tunnels aggregat-
ing 4; km in length would be required. Relift pumps would be constructed to
serve the second stage canals.
Drainage. Surface drainage would be improved and two diesel driven
pumps would be installed to remove flood water in low areas where natural
outlets are not available. Diesel drive is chosen for these two stations as
their use will be for relatively short periods each year and does not justify
the additional investment in transmission facilities to bring in electric
pc'uer.
Construction Schedule. The attached chart shows the construction
schedule.






REPUBLIC OF KOREA: PYONGTAEK-KUMGANG IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
NO [                DESCRIPTION OF WORKS                          I            2J        YEAR          4
KUMGANG PROJECT
I     AQUISITION OF LANDS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
2     RAISING TAPCHANG DAM AND SPILLWAY                                 1   1/
3     DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                                                        2
MAIN CANAL AND LATERAL
TUNNELS
CANAL STRUCTURES AND CONTROL GATES
PUMPHOUSES AND INSTALLATIONS                                           /               j
4     DRAINAGE SYSTEM
S     LAND PREPARATION
6     LAND CONSOLIDATION
7     E3UILDINGS AND UTILITIES
8     TRANSPORT AND HYDROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
9     AGRICULTURAL EOUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
POWER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                                           - - --
(NOT INCLUDED IN PROJECT COST)                                                           |
PYONGTAEK PROJECT
I     AQUISITION OF LANDS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
2     ANSONG CHONG SEA DIKE
3     ANSONG CHONG SPILLWAY
4     NAM YANG SEA DIKE
S     NAM YANG SPILLWAY
6     DISTRIBUTION SiYSTEM
MAIN CANAL AND LATERAL
TUNNELS
CANAL STRUCTURES
PUMPHOUSES AND INSTALLATIONS
7     DRAINAGE SYSTEM
6 i   LAND PREPARATION
9     LAND CONSOLIDATION
I0     BUILDINGS AND UTILITIES
II     ROADS
12     TRANSPORT AND HYDROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
13     AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
14     POWER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                                                    r------- -
(NOT INCLUDED IN PROJECT COST)                                                _______________________
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___________  I  IB RDO- 4 159






Republic of Korea
Pyongtaek - Kaang Irrigation pro
Cost Estlimates
Pyongtaek  Area                     Kumgarng  Area                      T o t a 1                        tUS$ Equivalent1/
Local      Foreign     Total       Local      Foreign     Total       Local       Foreign    Total       Local       Foreign     Total
------------------------------------___ (Won Millions) -------------------------------------------       ------- (U$   Millions) -----
Engineering Works
Seadykes                                2,060       1,317      3,377         -           -           -        2,060        1,317      3,377        7.!          4.7       12.1
Spillways                                 937         920      1,857         -           -          -           937          920      1,357        3.3          3.3        6.6
Distribution System:
Canals                                508         223        731         693         287         980      1,20l          510      1,711        4.3          1.8        6.1
Tunnels                               105         127        232          77          86         165        182          215        397          .6          .8        1.4
Structures                            _27         693      1,120       1,061        o89        1,950      1,4B8        1,582      3,070         5.3         5.7       11.0
Puwphouses                            116         365        481         121         342        463         217          707        941i        .8          2.5        3.4
Drainage        2                          32         -            32         53          40          93         B5           40        129          .3          .1         L4
and Preparataon-2/                       19           68        '57         U8           45         163        307          13        420        1.1           .4        1.5
Land Consolidation and Levelling          693         516      1,209         591         438      1,029       1,284          954      2,238        4.6          3.4        8.0
Raising Level of Tapohang Reservoir       -           -          -            21          45         66          21           15         66          .1          .2         .2
Acquisition of Right of Way               363         _          363         325         _           325        688          -          688         2.5                    2.5
Construction of Buildings                  17         -           17          14         -            14         31          -           31          .1         -           .1
Approach Road and Cozmsunications           8           4         12          66          17          83         71           21         95          .3          .1         .3
Miscellaneous                             546         423        969         316         217         533        862          64o0     1,502        3.1          2.3        5.4
Total Engineering Works                     6,001       4,656     10,657       3,h56       2,408       5,864      9,457        7,064     16,521       33.8         25.2       59.0
Admin. Design and Supervision (10%)           600         466      1066          34e         241         586        945          707      1,652        3.4          2.5        5.9
Subtotal                                    6,601       5,122      11,723      3,801       2,649       6,450     10,402        7,771     18,173        37.2        27.7       64.9
Farm Machinery, Vehicles
and Hydrological Equipment                                232        232         -           288         288        -            520        520        -            1.9        1.9
Total Excluding Contingencies               6,601       5,354     11,955       3,801       2,937       6,738     20,43 2       8,291     18,693        37.2        29.6       66.8
Contingenc:es (20%                          1,320       1,071      2,31         760         r88       1,348      2,080        1,659      3,739        7.4          5.9       13.3
Total Including Contingencies               7,.21       6,425      4,346       4,961       3 ,25       8,c'66    12,482        9,950     22,432       44.6         35.5       30.1
Operation & Maintenance During Construction   294         52         3b6         63     _     34        668         928           86      1,01b        3.3           .3        3.6
Subtotal                                    8,21'       6,477     14,692       5,195       3,595       5,754     13,410       10,036     23,406       47.9         35.8       83.7
Seeds Project Presaration                                       -          -                 -           -            7           41         48          3/          .2         .2
Interest During Construction                  -           915        915         -           ,65         765         1- ,680              1,680         -            6.o       6.0
Grand TotAl Pro.ject C'ost                  8,215       7,392      15,607      5,195       4,324       9,519      13,410       11,757    25,174        47.9         42.0       89.9
1/ Colowns and rovs do not rlrcessesrtly add correctlv due to rundi'nr off.
2   This includes clearing, grubbing, terracing and benching of upland areas prior to the ronstruction of irrigation and drainage facilities.
3/ Less than $50,0nn,






ANNEX 5
K 0 R E A
Pyongtaek-Kumgang Irrigation Project
Items to be Procured by ULIA
(Cost in US $ 000os)
1.   Electric pumps                                                   1,480
2.   Diesel pumps                                                        80
3.   Sluice gates                                                     1,600
h.   Electrical and mechanical equipment for sluice gate operation    1,890
5.   Tractors and implements                                          1,650
6.   Insecticide sprayers                                               160
7.   Cement                                                           2,070
8.   Reinforcing steel                                                  670
9.   Wood for shuttering                                                800
10.   Vehicles and hydrological equipment                                220
11.   Miscellaneous equipment                                            660
12.   Training fellowships                                                50
13.   Foreign e:xchange cost of consultants                            2,000
Subtotal                                                 13,330
Contingencies (20%)                                              2,670
Total                                                    16,000






ANNEX 6
Tahle 1
KOREA
UNION OF LAND IPPROVEMEINT ASSOCIATIONS
Statement of Revenue and Expenditure
for the Yeer ended December 31, 1967
(Won millions)
Revenu e
Membership dues of LIA's                                28.2
Government grants:
General operations                               79L. 9
Tidal reclamation pro,jects                      718.6
Rental of heavy equipment                              121.7
Supply of construction materials                      257.3
Miscellaneous revenue                                   1.9
Total                                               1,922.6
.Expenditure
Sunervision of construction, surveying
and design of land improvement works                 667.9
Special account for tidnl reclqmqtion                  718.6
O eration of heavy equipment                          107.7
Purchase of construction materials                     258.o
Welfare pro.jects                                       28.2
Administrative costs                                   129.7
Miscel'laneous costs                                     2.7
Total Costs                                         1,912.8
Nlet Revenue                                            9.8
.'Iote, During the ye,r the following sub-loan transections occur:ed:
Short term loans : disbursements        L79.8
repayments                     11.8
Long term loans   : disbursements     1,v77.2
repayments                    671.1
Net increase in assets and liabilities         1,27L,.]
Total,                                1,957.0  1,957.0



ANNEX 6
Table 2
KO REA
UNION OF LAND IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS
Comparative Balance Sheet as of
December 31, 1967
(Won millions)
1966               1967
Assets
Current Assets                              325.6              352.0
Work in Progress                            1146.1             270.8
Sub-loans to LIA's                        7,125.8            8,399.9
Fixed Assets                              1,958.8            1,905.2
Total Assets                              9,556.3           10,927.9
Liabilities and Net Worth
Current Liabilities                         278.6              205.L
Borrowings for Sub-loan
Operations                               7,125.8             8,399.9
Liabilities                               1,275.8            1,193.3
Depreciation Reserve                        172.2              268.2
3uilding Fund                               118.7              265.9
Total Liabilities                         8,971.1           10,332.7
Accumulated Surplus                         585.2              595.2
Total Liabilities and Net Worth           9,556.3           10,927.9



K  O  R  E A
PYONGTAEK-KIJ1lANG IA.IGATION 'OJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Present                                  Projected (Full Development)
Cropped     Production        GPV 17             Cropped      Production         GPV 1/
commoditv                   Hectares   ('000 m.tons)   (Mill. 7don)          Hectares    ('000 m.tons)   (Million Won)
Rice (white)                21,178         46.26          1,943               31,850        127.46          5,353
Soya (beans)                 3,176          1.90             53                1,630          2.06             58
Sweet Potatoes               2,240         28.30            226                1,080         17.30            138
Chinese Cabbage              1,070         13.60            122                1,050         24.10            217
Barley (clean)               8,243         11.43            194               20,960         49.01            833
Cabbage                        -                             -                 5,500        136.5o          1,502
Fodder (Rye)                   -             -               -                 4,200         84.00            168
Potatoes                       796          4.72             71                  -             -
Flax                           -             -               -                   250          0.75             17
Pears                          173          1.29             39                1,650         18.00            540
Peaches                        173          1.01             20                1,650         12.90            258
Pasture Crops                   93          1.86              4                  100          3.00              6
Total                       37,142        110.37          2,672               69,920        475.08
1/  Gross Production Value (GPV) figures rounded and valued at following price per metric ton:  42,000 won for
rice, 28,000 won for soya (beans), 8,000 won for sweet potatoes, 9,000 won for chinese cabbage, 17,000 won
for barley, 11,000 for cabbage, 2,000 won for fodder, 15,000 won for potatoes, 23,000 won for flax, 30,000
won for pears and 20,000 won for peaches.






ANNEX 8
ECONOMIC TRENDS IN THE KOREAN FOODGRAIN MARKET
In the past 20 years much progress has been made in improving and
expanding Korea's agriculture. Although Korea is a food-deficit country,
its farmers are now supplying more food to a population that has nearly
doubled since 1948. Food consumption has increased more than food production
in the last 20 years mainly because of an increase in population (especially
as a result of the influx of refugees from North Korea); increasing urban-
ization and rising per capita incomes. From the decade 1957 to 1967 farm-
crop production has fluctuated but with an upward trend. The increase has
averaged about 4.2% annually. Currently the estimated per capital daily
food intake of South Koreans exceeds 2,400 calories, compared with 2,200
calories in 1961, which was already a substantial improvement over earlier
years.
A.   Trade in Grains
Despite the expansion in domestic agricultural production, Korea
has, as Table 1 indicates, been increasingly depending on food imports for
meeting its food deficits. In 1967 these imports were valued at approximately
US$ 76 million or about 86% more than in 1962 (about US$ 41 million). The
increases have occured mainly in wheat, wheat flour and barley (until 1963)
and are obtained mainly from the United States of America under Public Law
480, used largely for payment of wages in kind, and some commercial imports.
USDA estimates that about 10% of the food presently consumed in Korea is
imported.
Until 1966 Korea made substantial progress in closing her foodgrain
gap. The gap measured by net imports as a percent of total supplies increased
to a peak, in 1963, of 22%. From 1963 to 1966 the gap narrowed to about 7%.
In 1966 net foodgrain imports had declined to 477,000 m tons. HIowever, in
1967 and 1968 the gap widened to 14 and 17% with net foodgrain imports in-
creasing to 1,100,000 and 1,200,000 m tons respectively. The increase im-
ports in 1967 were due primarily to exceptional demands created by the
National Assembly and Presidential elections plus the availability of favor-
able 35-month term commercial credits for grain imports. The 1968 increases
are due to shortages of domestic supplies (of 312,000 m tons) due to the
drought and accelerated consumption (approximately 400,000 m tons) resulting
primarily from the decision of the Korean Government to keep the price of
grain, especially rice, low to urban consumers. This gap will be filled by
PL 480 and commercial imports.
Recent studies conducted on the agricultural outlook for Korean
indicate that (i) farmers respond positively to price increases for rice
(ii) the demand for rice by urban consumers is relatively price inelastic
but (iii) demand is relatively elastic for the quantities farmers hold for
their own use. Thus a properly formulated grain price policy, particularly
for rice, can have the greatest quantitative impact on grain production and
consumption in the shortest possible time. If, on the other hand, current
consumption and production trends continue during the remaining period of the
Second Five-Year Plan, US-AID studies show that there will be an overall food-
grain gap between 1.6 to 2.0 million m tons in 1971.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
B.   Price Trends
There has been a continuous upward trend, since 1956, in prices of
agricultural products generally. In 1967 the index of prices received by
farmers (1960 base) realized 313.2. Grain prices (particularly Rice, Barley,
Wheat and other cereals) increased at a faster rate than prices of all
commodities up to 1964. They then suffered a setback but the index recovered
in 1967 to 285.3 points for rice and 282 points for barley. The index of
prices paid by farmers has shown a constant upward trend since 1960 reaching
295.7 points in 1967. On an aggregate basis, the parity index below indicates
that prices received by farmers have been rising faster than prices paid.
This suggests that, overall, prices have been an incentive for increased
agricultural output over the last several years.
Index of Prices Received and Paid with Parity Ratio (1960 = 100)
Year      Prices Received           Prices Paid         Parity Ratio (%)
1960           100.0                   100.0                 100.0
1961           115.9                   112.0                 103.5
1962           131.7                   124.2                 106.0
1963           186.9                   149.9                 124.7
1964           231.6                   201.9                 114.7
1965           255.8                   234.0                 109.3
1966           268.o                   256.2                 1o4.6
1967           313.2                   295.7                 105.9
Following the land reform of 1950 and with the growth in development
of the Korean economy and the growth in market orientation of the Korean
farmer, prices have come to play a greater role in both resource allocation
and income distribution. However for prices to work effectively as a re-
source allocator and income distributor in agriculture, there must be an
excess of production over farmer needs that is available for commercialization
(or selling in the market). Although Korean agriculture is becoming more
commercialized it is still far from a market-based agriculture. As the table
below indicates, Korean farmers in 1966 sold 50% of their rice crop, 30% of
their barley crop. Furthermore it is estimated that nearly 100% of silk
cocoons produced; nearly all of the fruit crop, but much smaller quantities
of the corn, vegetables, soybeans and other grain crops were marketed.
Rates of Commercialization of Rice and Barley Crops
Rice           Barley
1958 crop                                48.5            24.5
1959 '                                   44.9            24.4
1960                                     31.0            13.8
1961 "                                   34.o            18.4
1962                                     35.6            19.1
1963                                     36.2            15.6
1964 "                                   47.8            13.7
1965 "48.9                                               29.2
1966                                     50.0            30.0
Source: NACF Research Department Files.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
If major farm inputs are readily available at low costs and favor-
able farm product prices are maintained, this rate of commercialization can
be expected to continue increasing especially with the relative expansion
of the non-farm population and the Government's aggressive policies to find
export markets for Korean agricultural products.
The Korean farmer is inclined to respond to changes in input and
output prices in his production decision. This was demonstrated well in 1963
when farmer response to production of sweet potatoes, at prices quoted in
advanced by Government, exceeded the Government's budgetary capacity to
purcheLse sweet potatoes. Thus, with Korean agriculture becoming more market
oriented and monetized, favorable relative prices could provide a stimulus
to increased agricultural production.
C.   Grain Price Policies
The Government has regulated the grain market through a managed
supply program, including regulated imports and support purchases of domestic-
ally produced grain. This program has operated satisfactorily in achieving
the objectives of acquiring grain for Government consumption purposes and
stabilizing seasonal variations in rice and barley prices.
The primary objective of the Korean Government's pricing policy
is to stabilize the prices of supplies to farmers and final goods to consumers.
An important tool recently established for accomplishing these objectives is
the Farm Produces Price Stabilization Fund, which can be operated to provide
stable year-to-year food supplies. This fund was created to help stabilize
the prices of products and can be used for farm products whose prices are
abnormally low or high as designated by the Minister of Agriculture. If
prices are low, purchases are made in the market and, if high, existing
stocks are released or commodities imported.
Past operation of the Grain Management Supply (GMS) Program has
benefited farmers to some extent although it has been more beneficial to
consuners, particularly through price stabilization releases of rice in the
Seoul and Pusan markets at prices -substantially under free market prices and
below the real cost of acquisition, storage and holding costs. Thus urban
conswners have been subsidized by taxpayers to the extent that deficits in
the GM4S program has been covered by budgeted funds. The level of rice price
in Korea is a policy variable of the Korean Government. Through operation
of the GMS and other programs the Korean Government can, within limits,
manipulate the price of rice to the benefit of the farmer or the consumer.
The Korean Government appears to have recently modified its grain
policy, which hitherto had maintained rice purchases and sales at prices
relatively low to other crops (and also lower than those prevailing in the
world rice markets), by announcement (Korea Times, October 9, 1968) of its
decision to increase Government's:



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(a) purchase price of polished rice by 17% 1/ over last year's
price (for the 570,000 metric tons of rice it will purchase
from farmers in 1968 to maintain as reserve stocks and supply
to its Defence Forces) to increase farmer income and encourage
increased rice production of about 87,000 metric tons of rice in
the following year's output;
(b) sales price of Government-held rice by about 14% 2/ to the
general consumer in an effort to discourage consumers from
eating more rice-confined meals;
(c) efforts to keep the prices of other grains low relative to
rice in order to widen the gap between prices of rice and other
cereals and change consumption patterns away from rice to
wheat and other cereals.
D.   The Second Five-Year Plan
Self-Sufficiency in agriculture is one of the basic aims of Korea's
Second Five-Year Development Plan (1967-71). The Plan envisions a substantial
and ambitious development of the rural sector of the Korean economy. Spe-
cifically the goal for the agricultural sector is to obtain self-sufficiency
in foodgrains by 1971. In 1967 and 1968 growth projected for agriculture
(5% annually) met a reversal due especially to adverse weather resulting in
a drought which reduced rice production in the South and the Government's
decision to keep the price of grain low to urban consumers.
It would not have been possible to achieve self-sufficiency in
foodgrains under the Second Five-Year Plan with the Government's existing
policies. The pattern of deficits and surpluses existing in the last two
years did, however, suggest to the Government the need for measures to curb
the consumption accelerated by its policy of keeping low grain sales and
purchase prices, especially for rice. In order to prevent an overall food-
grain gap of about two million metric tons occurring by the end of the Second
Five-Year Plan (1971), drastic changes in price policies for foodgrains were
announced on October 9, 1968. These new policies are expected to result in:
(a) higher prices for rice sales and purchase that will curb rice
consumption increases (shifting consumption to barley and wheat)
while stimulating its production;
1/   This will raise the purchase price of an 80 kg bag of polished rice to
4,200 won.
2/   Price per bag of 80 kg polished rice will be around 4,700 won, which is
expected to defray production, storage, handling and other costs.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
(b) relatively lower prices for barley 1/ that would encourage
consumers to shift consumption patterns from rice to barley;
uncover the latent demand for it and clear the market at lower
price levels.
By the end of the Second Five-Year Development Plan (1971) it is
expected that, with other appropriate policies and programs and assuming
normal weather conditions, foodgrain self-sufficiency will be achieved.
This self-suff'iciency would be a net foodgrain self-sufficiency characterized
by wheat imports, rice exports, and substitution of domestic barley for some
imported livestock feed grains.
1/   Korean barley prices have remained at levels above world market prices
for much of the year.






TABLE 1: Trade in Grains, South Korea, 1959-1968
1959    1960     1961    1962    1963     1964    1965    1966     1967    1968 1/
----------- in '000 metric tons -----------------------------
Imports
Rice                                  3.8     -       -        -     118.4     -               31.5   112.6   216.0
Barley                               31.6     -     189.8    47.1    263.5   225.9   106.3      -       -        -
Wheat                              133.4    348.7   329.6   377.1    778.8   545.4   441.0    339.7   873.6   804.0
Wheat Flour 2/                       39.0    31.9    18.4     20.7    26.6    61.8     54.8   118.7    35.4     N.A.
Others 3/                            N.A.    87.4    65.2    54.1    157.3    81.9    67.0     35.0    78.7    223.0
Total Foodgrain Imports             207.8WV 468.0   603.0   499.0   1344.6   91g.0   669.1    524.9  1100.3  1243.0
fxports
Rice                                  5.0    24.2     5.8    62.0      5.7    14.0     19.2   4".0       -       -
Others                               N.A.     0.8     2.2      2.0     0-3    N.A.      5.8     4.0     4.0     N.A.
Total Foodgrain Exports               5.0i/  25.0     8.0    64.o      6.0    14.0_/_ 25.0     48.0     4.0     N.A.
Net Imports of Foodgrains           202.8i/ 443.0   595.0    435.0  1338.6   901.Oi/ 644.1    476.9  1096.3   12t3.0k/
Domestic Production                4539.0  4440.0  5025.0  4551.0   4654.0  5898.0  5713.0 6080.01/6528.01/6216.0
Total Supply of Foodgrain          4741.84/4883.0  5620.0  4986.0   5992.6  6799.Ci/6357.1   65-5.9  7624.3   7459, k'
Annual Rate of Increase in %            3%4/    15.1%   -11.3%   20.2%  13.5%4V -6.5%4I/   4.7%  16.3%    -2.2%k/
Ratio of Net Imports to Total
Supply for all Foodgrain             4.3% i/ 9.1%   10.6%     8.7%   22.3%  13.3% V  10.1%     7,2%   14.4%    16.7%
1/ In terms of Rice Years (November 1, 1958 to October 31, 1968). Data obtained from USOM.
2/  Used essentially for Relief axd Military Assistance.
3/  Includes cereals and cereal preparations, also corn.
b/1 Does not include figures on items for which data are not available.
SOURCE: Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Yearbook of Statistics 1968 and data obtained                                H m
from USOM.






K O R E A
PYONGTAEK-KUMGANG IRRIGATION PROJECT
ECONONIC RATE OF RETURN
(All amounts in W million)
Incremental
Net Production
Gross                    Net     Value from                                                Rate of Return
Production  Cost of     Production    Project    0 & M    Incremental    Capital Costs    Discounted at 13.8%
Year       Value    Production    Value      Operation    Costsl/Project Benefits  of Project     Benefits         Costs
1       2,673.0    1,031.0      1,642.0         _        13.3        _ 13.3        1,424.0        - 11.7        1,251.3
2       2,673.0    1,031.0      1,642.0         _        55.2       - 55.2         6,214.0        - 42.6        4s798.3
3       2,673.0    1,031.0      1,642.0         -        90.1        - 90.1        7,662.3        - 61.1        5,198.9
4       3,650.0    1,326.0      2,324.0        682.0    415.3          266.7       4,100.6          159.0       2,444.6
5       4,454.0    1,602.0      2,852.0      1,210.0    440.6          769.4       3,198.0          403.1       1,675.6
6        7,015.0    2,361.0     4,654.0      3,012.0    532.0        2,480.0          -           1,141.8
7       8,616.0    2,712.0      5,904.0      4,262.0    532.0       3,730.0           -           1,509.1
8       9,090.0     2,788.0     6,302.0      4,660.0    532.0       4,128.0           -           1,467.8
9       9,09OO     2,788.0      6,302.0      4,660.0    532.0       4,128.0                       1,289.6
{                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.,332.0
60    ~9,090.0    2.,788.0    6,302.0       4.,660.0   532.0       4.,128.0-
15,187.C      15,368.7
1/ Includes sinking fund for replacement of vehicles (5 years life expectancy) and pumps (30 years life expectancyl*
Also includes cost of agricultural extension.






REPU.BLIC OFYkOREA: PYONGTAEK-KUMGANG !RR!GATION PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
SPECIAL
F------------------------------------=====__i COORDINATING
T   [ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ ____ _ ____ _     _ __ _ _ __----- ~ ~ _ _--~  COMMITTEE 
OFFICE OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT                       PRESIDENT                                 NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL |
Fo     ~~~(ORD)                       UNiON OF LAND IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS (ILIA)      COOPERATIVE FEDERATION (NACF)|
Reseavrch ornd                                                                         Morkelng oand Credii
Extenzsionv                          VICE PRESIDENT
BOR  F DIRECTORS
HEAiI SPECIAL PROJECTS                                                               I
|O N                      S     ENGINEERING  ADMINISTRATION  PROJECI    UCTION  ENGINEERING 
DEATMENT               OFUFICENTLABORATORY                 C ONSULTANqTS I  DEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT  DPRMN
SHOPD OEPARTMENT                                       I
r- -- -- -- -- -- T----------      -------r- --- -------- - - - - - - - A--1
I C   A          - --I  
I---Y I               r- --- -T--                   --
OPERATION. MAINTENANCE  I                                           2 I I  I            I
ECONOMICS  i  I   LAND CONSOLIDATION NG  ENGINEERING WORKS  PLANNING AND DESIGN  I  I  ADMINISTRATION  I
AND  EXTENSION I II             II                II                              I   I
L       i  ~~      ~      ~~~~       ~~~~~~L____J  L.  2_JL_____ L. ____J  L.___- ____  L. ___J ____        >
FF  / EL D 96  OF F/C ES                                            x
EXISTNGRKMGANG, AXEA                                 NAMYANG SEA DIRE  I IANSONS CHONJG SEA DIKE I I PYONGrAEK  AREA I
IPROPOSED
L---J~~~                            1-         it
I    I           I      ~~~~~~~B R N IH  0   I C   E                       I
BOXNGJONG P.G  I I  ANGGYONG PG  Y ONUDONG PS  D ONGCHANG P.S.  II KILAM P.S  Y ELMPWA PDS   NOYANG PS  I I ~ NGAN P.S.
Febr-Ry  969                                                                                                                 (R)IERD-4160 






KOREA
LOCATION OF PYONGTAEK AND KUMGANG
PROJECT AREAS
mm.  '   International Bounidary
t 1   0          50KNI                        --     Province Bo.lindarees
O    if   20    30MIL.i:S                            l ---  Roads
4r  I  R|iailways
Rivers
IPower Net
<2;   Catchment Areas
1'..  roject Areas
l Ports
y        \                   w    X  O~~~~~~~~~~~~hunlchon
0
kang Nunlg
SEOUL D
1NCIIO N
/  ~~~~~         ;)W~~~on j u 
PY0NGT., E5*-
o*     NUN SAN.       /        <       7"
NOVENIBER IRNA                ililtO PUSAN
0 ~     ~     t
NOVENfBER 196ti                                                                               1IBRD 2.406






PYONGTAEK AREA       U
s A,   . t   '   ,   X,, .  .   X  A-,G-AN
...... .SE', ''--' N--t ' AS ': ' E
SEADI~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CAA
.      AREA
HIL4 v  k I i -ME E
.,   P R Q EC 1   e  T  A9REAA 
o~~ ~~~~~~ A I 2     s I 
MILL6bE  ,9 8                                                               B D  -  14.7






K O R E A                                        PONGJONG        AREA
KUMGANG AREA
PONG ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~~cO
TAP CHANG
RESERVOIR
.    KANGGYANG
-i:e .Jrar.~.fI.J- -                           IK SAN    AREA
if. ..;.                      _"'''' 
PUMP STATIONS
O  FIRST STAGE
o  SECOND STAGE
*  DRAINAGE
MAIN CANAL
PROJECT AREA
EXISTING IRRIGATION
-_____  (YONGDONG)
0      1     2      3             0   1   2   3   4   S
MILES                           KILOMETERS
NOVEMBER 1968                                                                                           IBRD - 2410



