                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29523

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-31480 PPFI-Q1010)

                                                  ON A

                                          PROPOSED CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.5 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

                                                 FOR A

                       POPULATION & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH PROJECT



                                              June 22, 2004




Human Development II
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                  Currency Unit = Guinean Franc
                                         GNF 1 = US$ 0.00050
                                          US$ 1 = 2,012 GNF
                               SDR 1         =      GNF 2,916
                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1   December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGBEF      Association Guinéenne de Bien-Etre Familiale
ANAP/SR/AJ Alliance Nationale pour la Promotion de la Santé Reproductive des Adolescents et
           Jeunes
APL        Adaptable Program Loan
BCC        Behavior Change Communications
CAAF       Centre d'Appui à l'Auto-Promotion Fémininer women
CAJEG      Associations de Jeunes de Guinea
CECOJE     Centres d'Ecoute des jeunes
CNPRH      National Population Council
CSA        Centre de Santé Amélioré
DHS        Demographic and Health Survey
DSR        Division de la Santé et de la Reproduction
DTC        Diphtérie/Tétanos/Coqueluche
EDS        Enquête Démographique et Sanitaire
FAP        Fonds d'Appui à la population
FGM        Female Genital Mutilation
GTZ        Deutsche Gesellschaft für technische Zusammenarbeit
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquires Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IEC        Information, Education and Communication
IMCI       Management of Childhood Illness
IPPF       International Planned Parenthood Federation
MAP        Multisectoral AIDS Program
MDG        Millenium Development Goals
MURIGA     Mutuelle pour la prise en charge des Risques associés à la Grossesse et aux
           Accouchements
NGO        Non Government Organization
OED        Operation Evaluation Department
PMU        Project Management Unit
PPSG       Projet Population et Santé Génésique
PRSC       Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PSF        Population Support Fund
PSI        Population Services International
QACS       Quality Assurance Committees

STD     Sexually Transmitted Diseases
STI     Sexually Transmitted Infections
TTL     Task Team Leader
UNFPA   United Nations Fund for Population
UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
VCT     Voluntary Counseling and Testing



                          Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                        Country Director    Mamadou Dia
                          Sector Manager    Alexandre V. Abrantes
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Timothy A. Jonhston

                                           GUINEA
                      POPULATION & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Supplementary Data

Project ID: P041568                                                  Project Name: Population & Reproductive Health
Team Leader: Timothy A. Johnston                                     TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Population & Reproductive Health                         L/C/TF Number: IDA-31480; PPFI-Q1010
   Country/Department: GUINEA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (88%); Central government administration (12%)
                  Theme: Child health (P); Population and reproductive health (P); HIV/AIDS
                            (S)

  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/23/1997                                     Effective: 05/14/1999                05/14/1999
     Appraisal: 01/30/1998                                         MTR: 06/15/2001                  06/15/2001
      Approval: 12/01/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF GUINEA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia                                    Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Nicolas Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Ibrahim Magazi                                 Slaheddine Ben-Halima
ICR Primary Author:             Timothy A. Johnston

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project was designed as a 12-year Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to be carried out in three four-year
phases. This was among the first APLs approved by the World Bank.               The overall objective of the
program was to assist the Borrower in improving the health situation of its population by preventing and
alleviating reproductive health risks and reducing infant, child, and maternal mortality rates through : (i) a
sustainable population growth rate, (ii) safer behavior and health practices, and (iii) improved delivery of
reproductive and child services. There were no separate objectives for the first phase.

The Development Credit Agreement and Project Appraisal Document specified activities to be financed
during the first phase of the project, as well as policy "triggers" to be met before moving to the second
four-year phase. The project is being closed at the end of the first phase, however. Although most of the
triggers had been met and a substantial amount of infrastructures initiated under the project remained to be
completed or equipped, Bank management initially decided to discontinue the project in favor of
non-targeted budget support through a PRSC.           An intensive dialogue ensued between the country
department and sector management, which resulted in a compromise agreement to fund a "transition"
health project that would consolidate some of the activities initiated under PPSG and seek to prepare the
ministry of health for a transition to budget support.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Objectives of the project were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three major components and a total of eight subcomponents, as well as seven policy
"triggers" that were to have been implemented prior to moving to the second phase (see Annex 1).

1. Population Growth and Reproductive Health Awareness: (US$4.5 million). This component sought
to increase awareness of the Borrower's population toward sustainable population growth, reproductive
health issues, and HIV/AIDS through three related subcomponents. Subcomponents 1.1 and 1.2 were
closely related, and were effectively merged following the mid-term review in 2001.

1.1. Increased awareness of population and development issues : This component supported advocacy and
awareness-raising on population issues, STIs/HIV/AIDS, and reproductive health (including reducing
female genital mutilation) among cultural and community leaders, male heads of households, youth, and the
general population. Planned activities (i) four national training workshops, 36 advocacy training sessions in
33 prefectures and three communes in Conakry; and at least five advocacy sessions per trained advocate;
(ii) three series of workshops on reproductive health for journalists and traditional communicators; (iii) 32
regional and 120 prefectoral information sessions (4 themes per region/prefecture); (iv) design, pretest, and
dissemination of messages for local and mass media, including annual information campaigns on
reproductive health issues and information and advocacy among religious leaders.

1.2 Increased promotion of positive and safer behavior: This component sought to change reproductive
health behaviors through interpersonal communications activities, including peer education. Activities for
youth included: (i) information, education, and counseling services for youth, including technical training of
youth leaders and peer educators; (ii) provision of counseling services in "maisons des jeunes" and
"centres d'ecoute," school health facilities and other youth gathering places; (iii) strengthening referrals
for clinic services for youth. A second set of activities targeted men and women of reproductive age,
including training of trainers to improve the quality of sexual health and counseling by facilty-based service



                                                     - 2 -

providers and community-based promoters.

1.3 Improved equity and access to reproductive health services for vulnerable groups : Support for a
Population Support Fund (PSF) (Fonds d'Appui à la population) (FAP) to provide flexible financing to
communities and local NGOs, for awareness-raising and advocacy for population and reproductive health,
women's status and reducing female genital mutilation (FGM), community-based distribution of
contraceptives, and safe motherhood initiatives. The Fund was managed by a seven-member selection
committee chaired by a representative of the Ministry of Social and Women's Affairs, with representatives
of five other ministries, one women's NGO, and the national NGO forum.

2. Reproductive Health and Maternal and Child Health (US$ 6 million)
This component sought to improve the supply and quality of reproductive health and contraceptive services,
in both health facilities and the community level.

2.1 Rationalized management of support for reproductive and child health services through: (i) the
establishment and operationalising of a decentralized management system to improve the supervision and
quality of services, including development of operational strategies and supervision modules; (ii) training of
trainer-supervisors and of providers, development of a national training plan for reproductive health; (iii)
development of Quality Assurance modules and training of national trainers in quality assurance; (iv)
improved management of logistics for medicines, vaccines, and contraceptives.

2.2 Contraceptives, STD/HIV/AIDS, family planning services (i) rehabilitation of 15 existing health
centers, and integration of RH services through provider training and provision of contraceptives; (ii)
operations research on reproductive health in two model clinics (iii) establishment of ten specialized health
posts in locations with a high risk of HIV/STI transmission; (iv) development of community-based
distribution of contraceptives in selected provinces; (v) purchase of consumables for prevention of
HIV/AIDS, including improved blood safety through provision of HIV test kits.

2.3 Safe Motherhood and Child Health services: (i) Emergency Obstetrical program in eight of the most
underserved prefectures, including training of obstetricians and their teams in Emergency Obstetrical Care;
construction and rehabilitation of operating theatres, provision of vehicles and radios; (ii) support for
community organization of solidarity funds for safe motherhood (" MURIGA") in the same underserved
prefectures; (iii) training of trainers and providers in Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI),
and provision of essential drugs and supervision support for IMCI.

3. Institutional Capacity (US$1.5 million)

3.1 Strengthened capacities to better manage population programs through financing of three policy
dialogue workshops; modeling and projection economic and population trends, and dissemination of results
of the 1999 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS).

3.2 National Coordination of Population and Health (i) support to the National Population Commission
(CNPRH) for the coordination of population policy, including rehabilitation and equipping of their national
office, support for salaries of recruited professional and support staff, and support for national and
international consultants; (ii) establishment of regional branches of the national population council; (iii)
provision of equipment for all eight Regional Health Directorates and rehabilitation of offices for three
Regional Health Directorates. This component also supported activities of the PPSG project management
unit.



                                                       - 3 -

Trigger indicators for Phase II:          The Project Appraisal Document specified seven specific policy
measures that were to have been fulfilled before moving to Phase II : (i) National and Regional Committees
for Population and for Human Resources are functional; (ii) legal barriers to the sale and advertisement of
contraceptives are lifted; (iii) action plan to enforce law forbidding Female Genital Mutilations is finalized;
(iv) regulatory, financial and administrative guidelines of decentralization are issued and applied; (v)
members of Quality Assurance Committees (QACS) are nominated for all regions and prefectures; (vi)
technical standards for QACS and Reproductive and Child Health are issued and applied in target areas;
(vii) a comprehensive plan for the pharmaceutical sub-sector is finalized.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no major revisions during first phase of the project. The project was prepared based on an
envelop of $16 million, but this amount was reduced to $12 million prior to negotiations. During the first
two supervision missions, the scope of some originally planned activities was reduced, based on revised
cost estimates and the reduce loan, but others were added. For example, the number of specialized health
posts to be constructed in area of high HIV/STI transmission was reduced from ten to four, but the project
agreed to finance construction of three additional health clinics for a cost of nearly $1.5 million (final cost
$1.9 million, or one-sixth of the Credit). These clinics were originally planned to be constructed under the
Health and Nutrition Project, and the cost was not included in the initial costing of this project. As
discussed later, this added infrastructure plus higher than planned spending on vehicles (28 instead of 14
initially planned) contributed to funding shortfalls that negatively affected the final two years of project
implementation, including training and awareness raising activities, and completion and equipping of
project-financed infrastructure.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory overall. The project team sought to develop an integrated, long-term
program to address both the supply and demand constraints to improving reproductive and child health
services. Nine studies on various reproductive health issues were carried out during project preparation,
which were subsequently synthesized by a national consultant. The project design was widely cited at the
time as an example of "best practice" design for a reproductive health project, and for an Adaptable
Performance Loan. Project appraisal took place during the Mid-term review of the Health and Nutrition
Project, which facilitated integrating lessons from predecessor projects. In an effort to clarify the respective
roles, some reproductive health activities planned under the Health and Nutrition project were taken on by
this project. A key weakness was that while the project's first phase was originally designed for $16
million, the amount was reduced to $12 million prior to negotiations (due to constraints in IDA allocations
to the country department). Thus objectives and activities for the first phase were ambitious, both in terms
of expected outcomes and number of planned activities in relation to available financing and the
implementing capacity of executing ministries. While intermediate and outcome indicators were defined
during appraisal and initial supervision missions, arrangements for collecting and analyzing a number of
these indicators were not sufficiently defined. In addition, the targets for increased contraceptive prevalence
turned out to be unrealistic, and had to be re-estimated when the 1999 DHS data became available.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's impact indicators were defined based on results that were to be achieved over 12 years
(reduce fertility, child and maternal mortality). In light of the decision to discontinue the program, rating of
project objectives is based on outcome objectives defined for the project's first phase, including fulfillment
of triggers for moving to phase 2. On this basis, the project outcome is rated unsatisfactory, but only
moderately so. The project implemented a wide range of activities and piloted promising initiatives, but fell



                                                       - 4 -

short of its stated objectives, particularly with regard to improved service delivery (Annex 1). While the
project sought to launch a long-term, integrated program to improve reproductive and child health, which
was fully relevant, the scope and coverage of critical "software" activities (provider training, behavior
change interventions) was significantly less than planned due to over commitments for infrastructure. Most
activities planned for the central level were completed, but interventions completed at the provincial level
were one-third to one-half of original plans (Annex 1A). Moreover, a substantial proportion of
infrastructure initiated under the project remains unequipped (Annex 1B). (A new health project under
preparation plans to complete and equip all health infrastructure initiated under the project).

Despite reduction in scope of the first (awareness raising) component, the project made important
contributions to improving the policy environment for reproductive health activities. The project financed
widespread information campaigns to increase awareness of reproductive health and HIV/AIDS issues; and
financed prevention activites through 74 local NGO activities in both urban and rural areas. Evidence is
inadequate to assess the impact on demand for and use of reproductive health services or sexual behavior.
To improve maternal and child health services, the project supported the development of strategies, training
manuals, and protocols for reproductive health and piloted an integrated program to reducing maternal
mortality in underserved districts. While contraceptive use has increased (Table 1), the project's direct
impact on reproductive and child health services was modest during the immediate life of the project, due to
reduction in scope and coverage of provider training, staff turnover, and shortfalls or delays in completion
of planned infrastructure. The project made a modest contribution to strengthening the national population
commission, and to strengthening regional health directorates and key central directorates. The project also
helped mobilize financing from other international partners for reproductive and child health, several of
whom are currently scaling up activities initiated under the project.

Although the project was national in scope, advocacy, maternal health, and NGO activities were
concentrated in 11 underserved prefectures (or " priority zones"). The 1999 DHS served as baseline for the
project, but the next DHS will not be completed until late-2004. As a result, comparable population-level
data are not available for most of project's outcome and impact indicators. The project sponsored two
surveys in intervention zones in 2001 and 2002 (Table 2) which provide a "snapshot" of progress during
these year, but these facility-based surveys are not comparable to the 1999 DHS. A planned "mini-EDS"
was not executed in 2003 due to lack of project funding. The ICR therefore has sought to draw on other
available household survey data and service statistics to assess progress toward project outcomes
(including two population surveys recently completed by Population Services International (PSI) on
contraceptive use among women (in 2004), and reproductive health knowledge and behavior among
adolescents (2002)).

(i) A sustainable population growth rate. Fertility is high in Guinea (index of fertility 5.5 in 1999), due to
cultural preferences and inadequate access to and quality of family planning services. Until the 2004 DHS
becomes available, contraceptive prevalence and family planning service data are the best available proxies
for progress in reducing population growth. At the national level, data from household surveys, health
service data, and sales data from socially marketed contraceptives show a modest but significant increase in
both barrier (condoms) and non-barrier contraceptives (Table 1). A comparison of the 1999 DHS and 2004
PSI survey suggests an increase from 13 to 40 percent of women who have ever used a modern family
planning method, and from 4 to 16 percent currently using a modern method. Use of oral contraceptives
has increased modestly, with sharper increases in injections and condom use (albeit all from a low base).
Urban use remains higher than rural, but both have improved. Sales of socially marketed contraceptives
(which represent two-thirds to three-quarters of total hormonal contaceptive market, and are sold in both
public and private facilities) also show steady increases, although sales dropped in 2003 due to price
increases and restrictions in sales points for hormonal contraceptives (as result of request from GTZ to


                                                     - 5 -

restrict sales to licensed pharmacies). Although these sales increases cannot be fully attributed to the
project, it likely contributed through support for policy reforms (including allowing private sale of
contraceptives), information campaigns, and NGO interventions.

Within the project priority zones, comparison of the 2001 and 2002 surveys showed improvements in
contraceptive awareness and use among women attending health clinics, including: having heard of
contraception (70% to 74%), ever use of modern contraceptives (9% to 12%), current use (5% to 6.3%),
and contraceptive continuation rate (12% to 29%) (Table 2). These years corresponded to significant
activities by the project in the target prefectures, both at community and facility level, so while changes are
small (except for significant jump in contraceptive continuation) the project likely contributed.

Table 1: Reproductive Health knowledge and behavior (household data)
                                                                      1999 DHS        2004 (PSI)**
Index of fecundity (women 15-49)                                          5.5               N.A.
Percentage of women (15-49) currently married who:
   Know of at least one modern contraceptive method                      69%                N.A.
   Have ever used a modern method                                        13%                40%
   Are currently using a modern method                                    4%                16%
      Pills (all brands)                                                  2%               3.6%
         Percentage using PSI brand (Planyl)                                               2.4%
      Injection (all brands)                                              1%                6%
         Percentage using PSI Depro-Provera                                                4.6%
      Condoms                                                            0.6%               7%
Note: This 2004 Population Services International (PSI) survey interviewed 1450 women, from a nationally representative
sample of households (though the sample method was not identical to that used by DHS). The survey oversampled urban
households (about half of sample), but a weighted average was used to calculate national data.

Despite improvements, contraceptive use remains too low to contribute to significant fertility reductions,
and further progress is needed both on the supply and demand side. The data above and evidence from
client surveys suggest that contraceptive use is sensitive to price, accessibility, and presence of a trained
provider (for example, in Labé, the number of new family consultations were several fold higher in clinics
with a trained provider, and fell sharply with their departure). Despite developing training tools and
sponsoring training of trainers (with UNFPA), relatively few providers were trained (no comprehensive
training data are available). While the project helped integrate family planning into basic nurse training in
the past five years, and it takes 5-10 years for trainees to join the public service (due to hiring backlogs).
Interviews and survey data suggest improvements in acceptance of family planning in the past five year,
but in health facilities visited, roughly one-fifth of women using contraceptives did not want their partners
to know.

(ii) safer behavior and health practices. Definitive national data on changes in reproductive health
knowledge and behavior must await availability of the 2004 DHS. The project adopted an integrated
approach, including supporting policy reforms and advocacy with national and local leaders, media
campaigns, interpersonal communication through training and materials for peer educators, and NGO
initiatives. The scope and expenditures under these components were less than planned, however (Annex 1),
and supervision missions initially expressed concern that media messages were not sufficiency targeted.
No coverage surveys were completed, but the project unit estimated that over 2 million people were
exposed to messages through radio and television, and up to 200,000 were reached through peer educations
and "animators" trained through the project -- many but not all in the project's priority zones (see details
below).



                                                            - 6 -

There is a wide consensus that the project contributed to improving the policy environment and the
openness of public discourse regarding reproductive health, family planning, and HIV/AIDS, including
reducing resistance from traditional and religious leaders (this was initially identified as a key project risk).
In priority prefectures, 85 percent of leaders surveyed in 2002 supported family planning, and
three-quarters had reported discussing reproductive health issues with their respective constituencies (Table
2). The impact on knowledge and behavior is difficult to assess at the national level. A comparison of the
2002 PSI youth survey and data from the youth cohort in the 1999 DHS show no significant changes in
knowledge or behavior, although the surveys may not be fully comparable. Although media campaigns
were initiated in 2000/2001, many of the interpersonal and NGO activities were not yet complete prior to
the latter survey. Although nearly all respondents in the 2002 survey had heard of HIV/AIDS, only
half of males and a quarter of females aged 13-24 spontaneously mentioned condoms as a mode
of prevention, and only a third of unmarried males and a quarter of unmarried females reported
using condoms "in general," (of which four-fifths used condoms in most recent sexual act). The
average age of first sex was 15 for both men and women. Less than a fifth said they would
voluntarily share food with someone who was suspected of having AIDS (PSI 2002).

Within the project "priority zones," reproductive health knowledge and behavior appeared to improve from
2001 to 2002: men reporting having used condoms in the past week increased from 7% to 16%, and the
percentage of youth seeking STI treatment at a health center increased from 4% to 20%. Field visits
undertaken by Bank supervision missions and the ICR mission also confirm general perception of a positive
contribution of project activities to awareness and behavior change, particularly where peer educators and
NGOs financed through the project were active.

The project made substantial contributions to changing attitudes toward female excision, including through
policy changes, information campaigns, and NGO advocacy. In 1999, nearly all women had been excised
and 93 percent had or planned to excise their daughters (DHS 1999). But the percentage of "leaders"
opposed to FGM increased from only two-thirds in 2001 to nearly three-quarters in 2002 (Table 2) ­ a
period which corresponded to intense local and national-level advocacy campaigns by a local NGOs
financed through the project (see below). NGOs carried out FGM activities in only a few prefectures,
however, and funding constraints in the final years of the FAP limited possibilities for further scaling up.




                                                     - 7 -

 Table 2: Reproductive health attitudes and behavior among women attending health clinics and
"leaders" in project priority zones (2001 and 2002 only)
                                                                                              2001           2002
 Percentage of children (<5 years) whose mothers had an assisted delivery                     71 %           78 %
 (among those attending health clinics)
 Percentage of pregnant women with at least three prenatal visits                             18 %           20 %
 Percentage women who are have heard of modern methods of contraception                       70 %           74 %
 Percentage women who have ever used modern contraception                                     9 %            12 %
 Percentage of women who are currently using modern contraception                             5 %            6.3 %
 Contraceptive continuation rate (from 12 to 36 months, among women who                       12 %           29 %
 have use contraceptives for at least one year (n = 78)
 Percentage of women able to explain the care prescribed for their children (<                62 %           80 %
 than 5 years)
  Percentage of men using condoms during the previous week                                    6.6 %          16 %
  Percentage of young adults who seek treatment at a health center for STIs                   4.5 %           20%

 Percentage community "leaders" convinced of socio-economic benefits of                       86 %           85 %
 family planning and birth spacing
 Percentage "leaders" reporting that they had discussed (" sensibilisé ")                       --           73 %
 reproductive health issues with their communities.
 Percentage "leaders" reporting unfavorable attitude toward female excision                   67 %           73 %
 (FGM)

Source: « Rapport de l'Enquete de suivi et d'Evaluation du PPSG » (2001 and 2001)
Note : Survey data is based on interviews with mothers or persons accompanying infants at public health centers in 15
prefectures (11 of which were "zones prioritaires" for the project). The survey also interviewed youth and 1150 community and
village "leaders" in these same prefectures.

(iii) Improved delivery of reproductive and child services.                     The project contributed to developing
reproductive health policies, training tools, strengthening key national and regional directorates, and
initiating training for improving quality of reproductive health services. Impact on service delivery during
the first phase of the project was modest at best, however, due to limited coverage of training, staff
turnover, and because most of the facilities constructed by the project were not yet operational as of the
ICR mission. While use of modern family planning methods increased, available national household survey
and health service data show no significant increase in prenatal consultation and assisted deliveries (Annex
8). Ancedotal evidence and limited service data suggest that coverage of prenatal care, assisted deliveries,
and referrals of emergency deliveries may have improved in the four prefectures where the project helped
establish MURIGAs and upgraded communications, transport, and provider training. (Despite requests, the
ICR mission did not receive sufficient health service data to compare trends in maternal and child health
services in the 11 priority prefectures and/or the four MURIGA prefectures compared to others.)

 Aside from support for development of an IMCI strategy and inputs for vaccine logistics, the impact on
the delivery of child health services was limited, at least during the life of the project. Vaccine coverage
actually declined during project implementation, despite some project support for logistics and cold chain
equipment (Table 4). To improve these service indicators, subsequent projects and partners programs will
have to build on activities initiated under the project, but fundamental progress will also be necessary in
sector reforms, including improving the quality, availability, and stability of health personnel, improved
financial accessibility for the poor, and increased reliability of financial flows to the periphery. Although
the project took on reproductive health activities planned under the Health and Nutrition Project, there did
not appear to be significant synergies between the two projects.




                                                              - 8 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
Policy Reforms ("Triggers" for Phase II of APL)

Despite the decision not to proceed with the second phase, most of the agreed policy "triggers" for the
second phase were fulfilled, most during the first years of the project. The degree to which these measures
were institutionalized varies, however. When rumors about the discontinuation of the project began to
circulate a year prior to project closing, the project's leverage to push for remaining measures was reduced
(Table 3).
Table 3: Implementation of Phase I policy "triggers"
Phase II "Triggers"                   Implementation and Current Status
National and Regional Committees      The National Commission existed prior to the project, but
for Population and for Human          consisted of single person in the Ministry of Plan. The
Resources are functional.             Government named additional personnel to the National
                                      Commission in 1999, and issued a decree nominating members of
                                      Regional Comission in 2000 . The National Population Committee
                                      remains functional, but has a relatively low profile due to its
                                      location within the Ministry of Plan. Regional Committees exist in
                                      principle, but are reported to be fully functional in only one region.
Legal barriers to the sale and        The National Assembly adopted in October 2000 a law for
advertisement of contraceptives are   Population and Reproductive Health, which among other measures,
lifted.                               confirmed the right to access to information and services for
                                      contraception. Contraceptives are now widely available in private
                                      pharmacies, at least in urban areas. Prior to 1984, contraception
                                      and family planning were banned in Guinea; although this ban was
                                      generally not enforced, the new law was useful in improving the
                                      enabling environment for these services.
Action plan to enforce law forbidding The same law outlawed FGM. While it did not specify sanctions,
Female Genital Mutilations is         national and community representatives interviewed by the mission
finalized.                            said that it had an important symbolic effect, and created "space"
                                      for initiation of community-based initiatives and information
                                      campaigns against FGM.
Regulatory, financial and             The Ministry of Health issued a decree creating Regional Health
administrative guidelines of          Directorates, which has initiated a transformation from their
decentralization are issued and       previous role as Regional Health Inspectorates. Equipment and
applied.                              materials furnished by the project provided a minimum "plateau
                                      technique" for them to serve their new role. Detailed directives
                                      and supervision protocols have yet to be issued by the Ministry,
                                      however, and the extent to which the Regional Directorates have
                                      made a transition to a more integrated role of supervision,
                                      planning, and quality assurance varies among regions.
Members of Quality Assurance          Committees were nominated, but did not become fully operational
Committees (QACS) are nominated       under the project except in a few health facilities. A GTZ project
for all regions and prefectures.      is seeking to developed an integrated approach to quality assurance
                                      in three regions.
Technical standards for QACS and      [see above]. The project took initial steps in developing technical
Reproductive and Child Health are     standards in quality assurance, including through sponsoring of
issued and applied in target areas.   workshops and trainings, but was not generalized. The process is
                                      being carried forward by GTZ.
A comprehensive plan for the          Some progress was made in the first two years of the project, but
pharmaceutical sub-sector is          the plan has not been finalized. Stock-outs of essential drugs at the
finalized.                            central level have worsened since 2002, due to management and
                                      fiscal problems at the central level.



                                                        - 9 -

Component 1. Population Growth and Reproductive Health Awareness:
The project launched the first integrated reproductive health awareness campaign in Guinea. While a
substantial number of activities were carried out, including in rural area, funding constraints in the final
two years of the project hindered completion of all planned activities. The total disbursement for this
component was less than half the appraisal estimate ($1.9 million versus $4.5 million planned).

1.1. Increased awareness of population and development issues :
1.2 Increased promotion of positive and safer behavior:

Advocacy and IEC activities for youth, women, and leaders were piloted in Conakry and Kindia prior to
project launch. The project supported the development of a multi-sectoral behavior change communications
(BCC) strategy in 2001. To strengthen the engagement of non-health ministries in reproductive health
issues, the project financed training in advocacy and BCC for staff of the ministries of youth and sport,
information, and social and women's affairs, sponsored rehabilitation and equipping of Division des
Activités Socio-educative in the Ministry of Youth and Sport, and financed three vehicles for supervision
by non-health ministries.

Advocacy with decisionmakers and leaders. In collaboration with the national population commission, the
project supported awareness-raising seminars for national and local leaders on reproductive health and
HIV/AIDS issues, helped establish the Guinean Réseau of Parliamentarians on Population and
Development, and organized annual training sessions for parliamentarians on reproductive health
(1999-2001). These activities aided in the passage of the reproductive health law, and the decision to ban
FGM (see above). Advocacy meetings were held at the prefectural level with administrative and traditional
leaders, with a particular emphasis on the 12 priority zone prefectures. Periodic press conferences and
seminars sought to improve reproductive health knowledge among journalists.

Media campaigns. The project supported pre-testing, production and broadcasting of message in local and
mass media, including television, national and local radio, in partnership with the Ministry of Information.
The latter received equipment and training in behavior change communications. The project financed five
documentaries and nine video clips (in French) targeting youth, married couples, and decisionmakers,
which were broadcast over 100 times in 2000-01. Other awareness raising events were broadcast on
national television and radio (French and local languages), including nine "roundtables" on reproductive
health issues; radio youth "game shows" on reproductive health (70 times broadcasts), and various press
events. The project unit estimated that 200,000 persons were reached through television, 1 million through
national radio, and 1 million through local radio. There are no coverage data to confirm these figures,
however. Funding shortages resulted in fewer broadcasts than planned, and Bank supervision teams noted
that some messages could have been more specifically targeted, and more materials translated into local
languages.

Peer educators and "animateurs." The project sought to create a national and regional network of trainers
and peer educator for reproductive health, particularly among youth and women. The project developed
training modules and materials for reproductive health advocacy and behavior change communication, then
trained over 50 trainers in advocacy and behavior change communication. These in turn led training
workshops in 4 regions and Conakry for over 200 peer educators and "animateurs" from 27 prefectures.
The project also supported production and distribution of leaflets, t-shirts and other promotional materials;
distribution of 50 bicycles, 100 behavior change communication kits (including wooden penises), 500 audio
cassettes, and 25 HIV/AIDS video cassettes to peer educators and local NGOs.                  Training and
awareness-raising activities through national youth associations, including Associations de Jeunes de


                                                   - 10 -

Guinea (CAJEG) and the Alliance Nationale pour la Promotion de la Santé Reproductive des Adolescents
et Jeunes (ANAP/SR/AJ), reached an estimated 5,800 youth in 2000. The project sponsored only four
behavior change communication seminars at the prefectural level (versus 11 planned), limiting the "reach"
of these activities. While there are no data on exposure, the project unit estimated that peer educators
reached over 200,000 persons in the target groups (youth, women, leaders) through over 8,000 awareness
raising session, and 1300 advocacy sessions among prefecture leaders and community groups.

Rehabilitation of youth and women's centers. Centers for youth ("maison des jeunes") and for women
(CAAF) were established by the socialist Government shortly after independence, to promote social
mobilization. While still staffed by their parent ministries and used by respective populations, most were
physically dilapidated. Given low attendance at health facilities, the project hoped to pilot transforming
these centers into sites for awareness raising, counseling, and referrals for reproductive health services,
including through establishment of "centres d'ecoute" within youth centers. With project support, the
Ministry of Youth and Sport developed texts that defined a broader role for these centers. The project had
originally planned to rehabilitate 4 `centres d'ecoute' (CECOJE) located in or next to "maisons de jeunes"
but none of these civil works were initiated. The project financed furniture for 10 CECOJE that were
established by other partners, however, and IPPF agreed to finance two of these centers through its local
affiliate (AGBEF).    Despite limited progress on infrastructure, youth counseling services are being
provided in existing "maison de jeunes" and "centres d'ecoute" by youth peer educators trained through the
project ­ although information was not available on the number of centers with active peer education and
reproductive health outreach programs.

The mission visited one CECOJE in Conakry and one in Labé, both of which are carrying out active peer
education and outreach programs, in addition to a wide range of other youth activities. The mission met
with youth and peer educators in several sites, who were committed, articulate, and continuing to carry out
peer education activities on a voluntary basis. They affirmed the importance of the project and training
received, and asked for continuation of World Bank support for their activities.

The project financed rehabilitation of three women's centers (six planned), but these remain to be equipped.
While these centers are used by women for vocation training, literacy classes, and other activities, their role
in reproductive health activities is still not clearly defined.

Special activities. The project organized a number of special events to raise awareness on reproductive
health and HIV/AIDS, including a rap concert (in 1999) attended by an estimated 6,000 youth; four
Population and Environment `caravans,' each of which toured six prefectures for two weeks in 1999 and
2000.

1.3 Improved equity and access to reproductive health services for vulnerable groups:
The Population Support Fund (FAP) financed 74 micro-projects (out of 312 submitted) with NGOs and
community organizations throughout the country (special emphasis on priority prefectures), for a total of
US$702,500. Of these, 22 were for HIV/AIDS awareness raising, 23 for STI/HIV interventions with
high-risk groups (truck drivers, sex workers and clients), 11 for family planning including community
based distribution, 8 for reproductive health activities including support for MURIGAs, and 19 for
women's rights and literacy, including reducing FGM. Interviews and site visits conducted during the
mission, together with reviews of monitoring reports from a sample of NGOs, suggests that this component
achieved made important contributions despite relatively limited resources. After a slow start, the project
sponsored training for 100 NGO representatives in proposal writing, as well as radio campaigns to request
proposals. The project provided institutional development grants to 10 NGOs that had successfully
received financing for two or more projects, including basic office and computer equipment. Five of these


                                                        - 11 -

NGOs subsequently successful sought support from other partners.

Grants were capped at a maximum of US$15,000, payable in three tranches, with tranche release
conditioned on reception of a satisfactory progress report. While these reports contain detailed data on
activities carried out, these data were not aggregated by the project, making it difficult to estimate the
number of persons reached.        Each NGO was audited annually by an independent auditing firm;
recommendations from the initial audits were taken into account, and the firm confirmed that overall funds
were spent as intended. But the project did not undertake a comprehensive evaluation of all NGOs financed
by the FAP, despite several requests from supervision missions, and it did not develop a consolidated
monitoring system to track the number of activities carried out or persons reached.

The mission met with members of the Fund's selection committee and with representatives of five NGOs
that received support through the Fund, including AGBEF (headquarters in Conakry and regional office in
Labé), SIDALERT (Conakry), Club des Amies du Monde (Labé) and CPTAFE (Labé) (which was the
lead NGO for FGM). The mission was impressed with the dedication and the programs of the NGOs
visited, despite limited resources and depending primarily on volunteers for activities and outreach
programs. FAP funds were insufficient to finance new project activities after mid-2001, however. Those
interviewed asserted that the Fund played a critical role in raising awareness regarding reproductive health,
HIV/AIDS, and FGM in both urban and rural areas, and also made a substantial contribution to developing
the capacity of NGOs and community organizations in peripheral areas, some of which subsequently
successfully sought funds from other donors. While the multisectoral selection committee allowed a broad
engagement in the selection process, conflict of interest issues were not sufficiently addressed: a number of
NGOs financed were associated with members of the project unit or the selection committee.

All NGOs and selection committee members interviewed were unanimous in pleading that the Fund be
continued, and that it was a complement not a substitute for NGO funding planned under the recently
launched HIV/AIDS project. (The Bank-financed HIV/AIDS MAP project also provides financing for
NGO activities, with a maximum of $5,000 instead of $15,000 under the FAP, and more narrow eligibility
criteria). Only 30 mostly urban NGOs were originally short-listed to received funding. The rural NGOs
interviewed by the mission were not yet aware that this new HIV/AIDS NGO funding existed.




                                                    - 12 -

Box 1: An integrated approach to reducing female genital mutilation (FGM)
 The project's support to reduce female excision provides a good example of positive synergies among
 project activities. The NGO CPTAFE, based in Labé and founded in the mid-1990s, had been carrying out
 small-scale activities in conjunction with the Peace Corps when they received their first FAP grant in 2001.
 Members noted that it had been almost impossible to publicly discuss excision before that, but the passage
 of the law in parliament banning excision created "space" for local advocacy. Resistance remained strong,
 however, until a prominent local Imam (a former Minister of Religion), agreed to undertake a radio
 broadcast in which he stated that female excision was not required by the Koran, and in light of negative
 health effects for women, there was no reason to continue. NGO volunteers then began conducting
 discussion sessions in villages, first with women and men separately, later together, as well as outreach
 work to traditional excisers -- a growing number of whom agreed either to adopt more sterile and less
 radical practices or to abandon the practice. The strategy was first to "medicalize" FGM by encouraging
 women to take daughters to clinics where conditions were more sterile and the procedure less radical, then
 encourage abandonment of the practice. They continued to use local radio (paid with project grant) to raise
 awareness about the negative health and psychological effects of FGM. Another NGO in the meantime
 organized a event in which traditional excisers ceremonially gave up their knifes, which received national
 and international coverage and became the basis of a documentary financed by the project. The project also
 supported development of a national strategy against excision, in partnership with CPTAFE. Members
 reported that some families beginning to abandon the practice, but remain reluctant to acknowledge to
 neighbors and relatives. While CPTAFE has received further support from GTZ, it remains a relatively
 small organization. Members expressed concern that they were able to cover a relatively small geographic
 area, and funding for continuing and scaling up activities was uncertain with the project's end. They also
 expressed need to create income generating activities for traditional excisers who abandon the practice. As
 of the ICR mission, CPTAFE had not yet been pre-qualified for financing under the MAP project, although
 FGM activities are in principle eligible for financing.



Component 2.         Reproductive Health and Maternal and Child Health (Final cost US$8 million/$6
million appraisal estimate).

This component was executed by the Division de la santé de la reproduction in the Ministry of Health, and
carried out in close collaboration with UNFPA, GTZ, and the PRISM project (USAID), Save the Children,
and SIDA III (Canada). The project helped mobilize funds from other partners, but also served as "donor
of last resort." This may have contributed to an infrastructure bias and activities spread across a range of
programs and geographic regions.

2.1 Rationalized management of support for reproductive and child health services.

The project financed a range of activities to improve management of reproductive health and child services.
First, the project helped strengthen the role of Regional and Prefect Health Directorates in supervision and
monitoring service indicators, initiated development of supervision modules at the decentralized level, and
financed in 2000 a document on the decentralized management of the health sector. Second, the project
supported national training workshops, established regional quality assurance teams (most no longer
functional), and initiated quality assurance activities in a limited number of hospitals in priority prefectures.
This could have contributed to modest improvements in adherence to reproductive health protocols in these
zones (Table 2), but activities were not scaled up. GTZ currently is carrying forward the Quality
Assurance program in three regions. Finally, to improve management of logistics for medicines, vaccines,
and contraceptives, the project financed vehicles and cold chain equipment for vaccine logistics, as well as
several regional workshops to improve logistics management, but impact appears to have been modest at
best, and have been undermined by stock-outs at the central level. Vaccination coverage has declined in the
past five years (Table 4). Shortfalls in Government funding for regional and prefectural health directorates



                                                        - 13 -

hindered their ability to take a greater role in supervision and quality assurance.


Table 4. Declining vaccination coverage from 1996 to 2002
                  1996            1997             1998          1999     2000         2001          2002
BCG                66%            69%              69%            72%      71%        63,8%          55 %
DTC3               53%            53%              56%            57%     57,3%       52,4%          43 %
VPO3               54%            53%              56%            57%     57,3%       52,4%           --
Rougeole           52%            56%              58%            61%     59,4%       55,5%          47 %
VAT2               43%            45%              48%            48%       42        37,3%           --
Source: Ministry of Health, Annuaires des Statistiques Sanitaires

2.2      Contraceptives, STD/HIV/AIDS, family planning services

This component primarily financed construction and rehabilitation of health infrastructure, although it
provided some support for reproductive health training and purchase of contraceptives. The project
rehabilitated five health centers (10 planned), which have been equipped and are operational; rehabilitated
five specialized health posts in locations with a high risk of HIV/STI transmission (of 15 planned), and
construction of three planned "Centre de la Santé Amelioré"(to be equipped by new health project);
constructed the 10 planned school health centers (completed but not equipped), and rehabilitated two
"model" family planning clinics (to be equipped by new project). These infrastructure may help improve
access and quality of reproductive health care in the future, but absorbed nearly half of the Credit. As noted
above, the addition of the three CSA clinics (cost $2 million) to an already constrained project budget led to
difficulties in equipping facilities and significantly reduced available financing for training and behavior
change activities.

With regard to training, a reproductive health module was integrated into basic nurse and midwife training
at the beginning of the project. But because the majority of health staff still had not been trained in family
planning, STI treatment, or reproductive health counseling, the project supported in collaboration with
UNFPA the development and implementation of a national strategy for in-service training for reproductive
health, including development of training tools and regional training strategies. UNFPA financed training of
27 trainers or three per region (10 per region originally planned). No data are available on the number or
percentage of providers trained, but the scope appears to have been limited, and further undermined by
turnover and inappropriate placement of trained providers.

To improve availability of contraceptives and consumables, the project purchased HIV test kits (it was the
main supplier of these for hospitals and VCTs for several years), a CD4 counter and related supplies for
HIV/AIDS care and support. With regard to development of community-based contraceptive distribution,
some activities were piloted by NGOs through the fund FAP. The project also trained 600 village birth
attendants (accoucheuse villageoise) in the four prefectures covered by MURIGAs. In addition, AGBEF
piloted limited CBD activities, but has not been scaled up nationally.

The project played a significant role in launching the national HIV/AIDS program, including supporting the
development of a multi-sectoral AIDS strategy in 2001, and project staff played a central role in the
preparation of the MAP project, which was launched in 2003. It also cofinanced the first HIV/AIDS
surveillance study in 2001, as well as a study on quality of STI care with SIDA III (Canada). The
multi-sectoral approach initiated under this project provided the framework for the MAP, and experience
with NGOs under FAP informed the development of NGO financing under MAP (with caveats noted above
about narrower scope of MAP financing).



                                                           - 14 -

2.3 Safe Motherhood and Child Health services:

The project initiated a number of policy and pilot activities that appear to have improved maternal and
child health services in the 11 target prefectures (Table 2). At the national level, the project supported the
development of the Programme National Maternité Sans Risque, including through recruitment of
consultants and sponsoring workshops and training.         The Project also supported development of a
community Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) strategy in 2003, but implementation in
pilot prefectures was postponed due to lack of funding. The new project plans to support IMCI roll-out, but
this will take place about two years behind the originally planned schedule.

The project supported the establishment of 32 community solidarity funds (MURIGA) in four prefectures
(compared to an originally planned 111 in 11 prefectures), of which at least three-quarters remain
functional. The MURIGA permit communities to share risks for emergency obstetrical care (including
cesarean sections), and also encourage women to seek care for high-risk pregnancies. MURIGA were
established in four Prefectures in the more remote areas in the north and east of the country (Haute Guinée
and Guinée Forestière), with support from both the project team, local health staff, and NGOs financed
through the FAP. Building on existing local organizations, the project sought to lead a participative process
to organize the MURIGAs, define the contributions levels, and raise awareness in community of the
importance of safe delivery. In these same prefectures, the project financed radios for prefectural hospitals
and health clinics, and ambulances for the hospital. Training of maternity teams was completed in all four
prefectures (though late in the project), but only three obstetrical blocks were rehabilitated, and remain to
be equipped (planned for new health project). The mission was not able to visit MURIGA sites, but
reviewed available documents and interviewed several health staff who had been closely involved in
establishing MURIGAs. Although a thorough evaluation has yet to be completed, there is a strong
consensus that the combination of establishing community solidarity mechanisms together with
complementarily investment to improve communication, response time, and quality of deliveries increased
high-risk referrals and may have reduced maternal mortality in these zones.

3. Institutional Capacity

3.1      Strengthened capacities to better manage population programs : The Project supported
dissemination of 1999 DHS results, as well as analytic work that led to revisions of population projections.
The National Statistics Directorate received equipment and technical assistance to strengthen the collection
and analysis of demographic data.

3.2 National Coordination of Population and Health: To strengthen the National Population Commission
(CNPRH), additional staff were recruited and financed through project, office was rehabilitated and
equipped, and other technical support provided. The profile of the CNPRH increased, but its position
within a relatively weak Ministry of Planning has limited its coordinating role.             The project and
Commission also helped establish a "Reseau de Parlementaires sur la Santé de la Reproduction", which
played a key role in passage of the Reproductive Health Law, and sponsored workshops for
Parliamentarians in 1999-2001. Planned training for new members of parliament has not been carried out
since then, however. Consistent with project conditionality, decrees were issued to establish regional
branches of the CNPRH, but only one is functional. This component also financed equipment, office
rehabilitation, and operation of the project unit.

The project financed equipment for all Regional Health Directorates and rehabilitated offices for two (of
four originally planned), and rehabilitated three Directorate Prefectural de la Santé (DPS) and equipped a


                                                    - 15 -

total of four DPS. The mission visited two Regional Health Directorates, including one that had been
rehabilitated by the project (in Labé). The mission reviewed annual reports in several regions and
prefectures, which showed improvement from 1999 to 2003, and staff reported that indicators and
performance data are regularly discussed with prefecture health staff. Some Regions continue to emphasize
their original inspectorate function, however, and operational strategies and directives need to be further
developed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N. A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated as modest. The project contributed to improving reproductive
health policies and improving the context for public discussion and awareness raising for reproductive
health, HIV/AIDS, and reducing FGM, including through the passage of the reproductive health law and
advocacy activities with Parliament and national and community leaders. The project also helped establish
the National Population Commission and its regional units, but only one region is fully functional. The
overall impact has been modest, however, since the Population Commission is still not fulfilling its intended
multisectoral coordination role.

The project engaged for the first time non-health ministries, including Ministries of Youth and Sport, of
Women and Social Affairs, of Information, in reproductive health programs, and laid the foundation for the
multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS. The Ministry of Youth and Sport evolved from its initial role of
sponsoring sporting events to engaging in a wider range of youth programs, including HIV/AIDS
awareness, now with the support of several international partners (GTZ, UNFPA). The Ministry of
Information also developed skills and programs in behavior change communications, which continues under
the current MAP project. The Ministry of Women and Social Affairs took steps toward broadening its role
and that of its network of women's centers (CAAF), but the future role of these centers regarding women's
health remains unclear.

With regard to the Ministry of Health, the project provided a basic level of equipment and training
necessary for the Regional Health Directorates to assume their role. The mission noted an improvement in
annual reporting and statistics in the regions visited, and at least some regions have initiated annual or
semi-annual reviews of performance with health districts. Detailed guidelines regarding the roles of health
regions need to be further developed, and performance varies considerably depending on the strength and
commitment of the regional team. Project conditionality, investments, and training helped raise the profile
of the Division de la Santé et de la Reproduction (DSR) within the Direction Nationale de la Santé
Publique, which evolved from a relatively small Division. While the project developed training manuals for
reproductive health, the scope and impact of training on provider skills and behavior and service delivery
was limited. The project thus had only a modest impact on service delivery, and limited impact on sector
governance, including management of human and financial resources and of the pharmaceutical sub-sector.


The project strengthened the framework for financing NGOs for reproductive health and HIV/AIDS and
increased the capacity of NGOs in Guinea to plan and implement reproductive health and awareness raising
programs. The MAP project drew on PPSG experience, but has put in place a different selection process,
using an international NGO to prescreen local NGOs prior to eligibility for financing.



                                                   - 16 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Civil wars in neighboring countries of Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Côte d'Ivoire disrupted health service and
other activities in border regions of Guinea, due both to increased insecurity and an influx of refugees, and
made it difficult to carry out planned project activities in these prefectures.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several factors relating the Government financing and management of the health sector reduced the
potential impact of project investments and activities, particularly in the health sector. Counterpart funds
for the project were typically provided late, and no counterpart financing was provided in 2003 (see Table
below). The Government only allocated only 4.5 percent of its national budget for health in 2001, and
while salaries are generally paid on time, funds for functioning of facilities are limited and arrive late. A
recent Public Expenditure Tracking Survey for the Guinea Health sector found that only 30 percent of
funds destined for health centers actually arrived at the facilities, due to diversions at each level of the
health system. Counterpart funding was consistently late, and no counterpart contribution was made for
2003.

While there is an oversupply of doctors and nurses in the country relative to public service posts, they are
inequitably distributed and turnover is high, often due to arbitrary transfer decisions by the central ministry.
This reduced the impact of project-financed training. Poor management of the national parastatal pharmacy
and lack of payment by the central government for large vaccine and drug purchases has resulted in
increased stockouts at the central level, which in turn has led to ruptures in availability of essential drugs
and vaccines at health facilities (for example, health facilities visited by the mission report stockouts of
DTC vaccines, quinine, and doxycycline due to stockouts at central level).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project unit and staff of the various implementing agencies directly involved in the project by and large
demonstrated strong efforts to achieve project objectives even in a sometimes difficult institutional and
economic context. It could have exercised greater discipline on project expenditures, however, which
resulted in the subsequent shortfalls. The project coordinator is a specialist in maternal and child health,
who had been part of the project units of the previous two World Bank projects. Although relations
between the Ministry of Health and the project unit were initially good, growing tensions in the final two
years of the project between the Minister and project coordinator hindered implementation of project
activities and needed reforms (a new minister was appointed during the ICR mission). Relations remained
positive with other implementing ministries, however, and with technical departments within the Ministry of
Health. The PPSG project unit initially played a limited role in the design of the new health project, but
collaboration appears to be improving to ensure a transition between projects.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The actual cost of the project did not exceed the initial estimates made at appraisal. The table below shows
the categories of disbursement as initially scheduled and as actually paid in thousands US dollars (the
credit was officially denominated in SDR).




                                                     - 17 -

Table 5: Project costs

                                                                                % of
                             Appraisal                                        appraisal
    cat.    Description       Estimate      Disbursed          Available       estimate
     1      Civil Works         3,006          2,834             172              94
             Equipment,
         Vehicles, Medicine
     2      et Furniture        2,598          2,539              58              98
            Consultants,
     3     training, Audit      2,469          2,382              87              96
          Grants for micro-
     4         projects          638           830              (191)            130
     5    Operational costs     1,679          1,777             (98)            106
     6           PPF             684           540               144              79
     7     Non allocated          -              -                -
   SA-A    Special account       (30)           47               (77)           (158)
              TOTAL            11,045         10,950              95              99



At the time of the ICR mission, 99 percent of the funds had been disbursed, and nearly all funds
committed. Procurement was generally well implemented, but procurement thresholds were exceeded for
several categories, including local shopping.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The prospect for sustainability of activities that were initiated or completed by the project is rated as likely
, though with a number of caveats. The project currently under preparation has made a commitment to
completing health infrastructure initiated under the PPSG, and also continuing or scaling up several
activities initiated under the project (such as the MURIGAs). But these facilities must be staffed with
adequate resources for recurrent costs if they are to improve service delivery. Other activities are being
continued through other partners (GTZ is supporting quality enhancement activities, UNFPA is supporting
youth programs). In terms of the project's non-health activities ­ some are being continued through the
MAP project, though with a narrower focus on HIV/AIDS ­ although the youth Ministry has attracted
other partners. The project's original vision of expanding reproductive health services and information in
the women's centers managed by the Ministry of Social and Women's affairs is unlikely to be realized
without additional sources of financing. Many of the youth peer educators trained by the project are
continuing their activities, but need continued support, as do NGOs engaged in reproductive health
activities beyond HIV/AIDS (including FGM). The new health project seeks to improve strengthen sector
planning and strategies, but the overall governance and financing situation in the health sector continues to
poses a risk to future project benefits.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As noted, remaining infrastructure needs to completed and/or equipped, staffed, and provided with
necessary operating budgets. The health project under development is planning to complete most
health-related infrastructure, but is not currently planning additional investments for the women's centers
(CAAFs) or youth centers. The health project currently under development seeks to move toward a
sector-wide approach, and does not plan to use a Project Implementation Unit (PMU). This has created
uncertainty regarding the future of reproductive health activities in other ministries, particularly those



                                                     - 18 -

outside the current scope of the MAP (HIV/AIDS) project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during lending is rated as satisfactory. The team sought to develop an integrated,
long-term program, using what was seen at the time as an innovative, flexible instrument (the Adaptable
Program Loan (APL)) to achieve both policy and service delivery objectives. Project activities and
objectives were overambitious relative to capacity and resources available, however, and more attention
should have been given during design on ensuring a clear set of indicators and ensuring that the M&E
system would be operational soon after effectiveness.

7.2 Supervision:
The project benefited from good technical support and regular field visits, and supervision teams regularly
engaged the Government and stakeholders in dialogue on reproductive health issues. The Bank team also
encouraged other partners to support the reproductive health program, generating additional resources for
the sub-sector. While not financed directly by the project, the Bank also sponsored some key sector work
during the project execution period, including a poverty and health study, a public expenditure review, and
a public expenditure tracking survey, which have contributed to dialogue on broader sector management
and financing issues.

Turnover of TTLs reduced the continuity of supervision, however (four TTLs over the life of the project).
More importantly, two factors related to Bank performance reduced the overall impact of the project. First,
the Bank agreed to over commit the Credit with regard to infrastructure activities (with insufficient funds to
equip facilities during the first phase), on the assumption of a rapid transition to phase two. As a result, the
Credit was fully committed by the third year, which undermined completion of critical "software" activities
(including training and community initiatives), and funds were not available to complete or equip a
significant portion of the infrastructure. Second, the Bank's subsequent decision to discontinue the project
after the first phase created the risk of a large number of incomplete or unequipped infrastructure, and
undermined the Bank's leverage in fulfilling remaining project "triggers" for phase 2. Moreover, the
decision was taken without consulting project stakeholders, and despite having made a 12-year commitment
to the program.

The Bank's subsequent decision to proceed with a transition project will permit completion of some key
project activities and investments, and may help lay the framework for a sectorwide approach. But several
key maternal and child health programs (such as IMCI) are at least two years behind where they would
been as a result of the delays and uncertainties surrounding the transition. Overall Bank performance
during implementation is therefore rated unsatisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. (Based on ICR and OED guidelines, overall Bank
performance is considered unsatisfactory if either lending or supervision performance is rated
unsatisfactory.)

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in preparation was satisfactory. The Government committed to a long-term
program to improving policies and programs for reproductive health, and engaged the support of the
Ministry of Health and several non-health ministries.



                                                     - 19 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
While the Government showed commitment to implementing most project activities, particularly in early
years, and made progress in improving reproductive health policies, strategies, and launching the national
HIV/AIDS program, performance deteriorated in the final years of project, undermining project activities
and potential impact. As noted above, inadequate resource allocations to the decentralized level, inadequate
human resource management, and stockouts at the central pharmacy reduced the impact of project
investments. Overall Government performance is therefore considered unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the various implementing agencies in this project is rated as satisfactory. The project
unit provided support for coordination and execution of project activities, with regular field visits to
monitor progress. The non-health ministries made substantial progress in developing and implementing
reproductive health programs relevant to their missions. Ministry of Health performance was generally
satisfactory by executing departments, although governance problems in the sector pose a risk to project
impact. The Government shares responsibility with the Bank, however, for the overemphasis on financing
infrastructure and vehicles during the first phase, which reduce funding available for other critical
activities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory, though marginally so. This rating reflects the
overall satisfactory preparation and performance of implementing agencies, despite overall unsatisfactory
Government performance due to lack of progress in improving the overall institutional context and
governance in the health sector.

8. Lessons Learned

The project experience reinforces a number of long-standing lessons. These include: avoiding
overcommitments for "hardware" and infrastructure activities at the expense of critical "software"
investments in training, behavior change, and institutional development; the importance of establishing a
monitoring and evaluation system prior to project launch, including arrangements for collecting and
analyzing data; the importance of setting realistic targets for development outcomes; and ensuring that
scope of planned and timetable for project activities are consistent with borrower implementation capacity.
Other lessons include:

1. Improving demand for and quality of reproductive health services requires a sustained, long-term
effort. Project experience appears to support the original concept underlying project design, namely that
increasing contraceptive prevalence requires strengthening the quality and availability of services, while
also addressing the underlying causes of low demand for health services, through advocacy and information
activities at the national and community levels. Substantial progress was made in the policy framework, in
training, information campaigns, etc., but the changes in indicators was only modest. Moreover, stated
commitments by senior government officials did not fully translate into tangible support for program
implementation (for example, the continued low profile of the population commission). A sustained
long-term effort is necessary, given the difficulty of changing institutions ­ both formal institutions for
service provision, and informal institutions such as gender dynamics, and fertility and sexual preferences
and practices of communities and couples.




                                                   - 20 -

2. Importance of integrated and sustained behavior change campaigns. The project adopted a
multi-prong approach to changing attitudes and behavior toward reproductive health, contraception,
HIV/AIDS, and FGM, including efforts to improve the policy context, raise awareness among opinion
leaders, disseminate messages through local and national media, training and support for peer educators,
and support for local NGO activities. It also sought to reach youth and other target groups "where they
are" rather than basing all activities in health facilities. While evidence from the mission suggests that this
strategy was sound and that activities were mutually reinforcing, coverage was less than planned and
contributions to improved awareness and behavior change appears to have been only modest at the national
level. The progress in discouraging FGM through an integrated approach of policy changes, engaging
religious and opinion leaders, media campaigns, and local NGO activities demonstrates the potential of an
integrated approach, but coverage needs to be scaled up.

3. In choosing lending instruments, consideration should be given to the specific sector objectives and
the overall institutional environment of the sector. APLs were seen at the time of project design as an
innovative new instrument that would address previously identified weaknesses in traditional project
lending. In the past four years, interest in the Bank for APLs has waned in favor of programmatic budget
support instruments such as PRSCs. Given that the project was not continued after the first phase, no
strong lessons can be drawn regarding the role and effectiveness of APLs, but project experience suggests
several tentative conclusions. First, if the Bank is to continue using APLs as a lending instrument, (i)
financing should be adequate to complete all activities planned in each phase, without presumed recourse to
the subsequent phase (otherwise triggers become less meaningful and there's a risk of incomplete
activities); (ii) there should be a clear commitment to sustain support for the full APL cycle, unless the
trigger conditions are not met. Second, with regard to the policy influence of this "hybrid" lending
instrument, the project was successful in enacting several important policy changes, including the
reproductive health law. It was affected by, but not able to address fundamental problems in the sector,
including human resources, unreliability of government budget transfers, and pharmaceutical stockouts.
Third, the project successfully introduced a number of innovations (such as MURIGAs, multi-sector
reproductive health programs), that are being scaled up and could eventually be integrated into the national
budget, and was also an effective instrument for funding innovative NGO activities. It is unlikely that
policy conditionality alone (in the context of budget support) could put in place the elements necessary to
introduce these innovations, or to reach local communities so directly.

A fundamental strategic question for the Bank and the government is whether the governance problems
noted above will have been sufficiently resolved at the end of the new operation (currently under
preparation) for budget support to reach intended beneficiaries, enhance service delivery, and accelerate
progress toward MDGs.         For example, should the transition to budget support be considered "fait
accompli" after the current project, or should it be conditioned on achieving specific policy, budgetary, and
health service objectives?

4. NGO financing mechanisms. The project helped create an innovative mechanism for financing
reproductive health activities through NGOs. The use of an intersectoral committee to review and approve
NGO project proposals worked well, with steady improvements in the functioning of the committee and the
quality of the proposals during the project (training for NGOs in proposal writing helped). The availability
of institutional development grants for NGOs that had successfully submitted more than two proposals was
an innovation that provided critical organization support (including office and equipment) which helped
strengthen a number of local NGOs that have since scaled up their activities. Although lessons from this
component were used in the design of the MAP project NGO mechanism, many of the NGOs financed
under the PPSG have not yet accessed MAP funding. The Bank, government and partners may wish to


                                                      - 21 -

consider whether continuing the FAP would permit consolidation and deepening of NGO activities beyond
the immediate realm of HIV/AIDS.

5. Multisector reproductive health projects. The PPSG was a precurser multi-sectoral approach under
the MAP project (and played a key role in developing the MAP in Guinea) but in the wider domain of
reproductive health. Given the relatively low utilization of health facilities, the strategic decision to engage
ministries of youth, social welfare, and information appears to have been sound. Yet in light of the
continued weaknesses of the national population council, however, it is not clear that this approach would
have been effectively implemented without the active engagement of the project unit, which was able to
work effectively across sectors. There is a risk that the non-HIV intersectoral aspects of reproductive
health will not receive adequate attention and funding after the close of the project. In particular, the Bank,
government and partners should seek to continue support for youth programs and strengthening peer
counseling and reproductive health education (at Maison de jeunes and centres d'ecoute, including through
NGO partnerships). This could be either through the current project, or through broadening the scope of
the MAP project.

6. Improving access to and quality of emergency obstetrical services. The preliminary results from the
MURIGA's suggests several lessons. First, an integrated approach including improved quality of care,
improved communication and transport, and community organization and solidarity mechanism (to improve
financial access) is necessary. Second, MURIGAs were more successful when based on existing women's
organizations, but still required intensive support and facilitation ­ NGOs were often better positioned to
play this role than health staff. Third, detailed study and discussion is necessary to define the costs and
benefit package, particularly whether to include other health services, sustainable fees, and how to ensure
access for the poorest. Fourth, while local adaptation is necessary, there is a need for harmonization of
approach among different partners (Save the Children, GTZ, World Bank, UNICEF). Finally, given plans
by the Bank and other partners to significantly scale up MURIGAs, a more detailed evaluation is necessary
to draw lessons about institutional design and actual impact (including how to best establish and support
community risk pooling, balance relations between health staff and the members of the mutuelles, and
ensure financial sustainability). UNICEF is reportedly planning such an evaluation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A translated version of the ICR was sent to the government for comment on June 1, 2004. No comments
were received as of June 22, 2004.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
D1. Percentage of decisionmakers and             85 % **                                       85 % **
opinion leaders who are convinced of the
socio-economic benefits of family planning
and birth spacing (target 50 %)

 D2. Utilization of contraceptives (excluding    11 % *                                        16 %***
barrier methods) in urban areas (target:
above 15 %)

D3. Percentage of married women capable          74**                                          74 % **
of citing at least one modern family planning
method (target by end of project : > 80 %).

D4. Reduction in infant mortality rate.          90 % *                                        N.A. (pending 2004 DHS)

D5. Percentage of births at high risk of         67 % *                                        N.A. (pending 2004 DHS)
mortality

D6. Control the increase of HIV prevalence       2.8 % (2001 sentinel surveillance estimate)   2.8 % (2001 sentinel surveillance estimate)
among adults (age 14-49)



D7. Ability of health system at central level to 60 % *                                        60 %
monitor and evaluate programs at the
decentralized level (based on supervision
reports).


* Estimate by PPSG project unit, based on projections from 1993 and 1999 DHS data (assume continuation of trends)
** 2002 monitoring and evaluation survey in project priority zones, based on exit interviews with clients at health clinics.
*** 2004 Reproductive Health Survey, Population Services International




                                                                  - 23 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
 Results/Outcome Indicators for Phase I (for (2001 PPSG indicator survey in priority   (2002 PPSG indicator survey in project
priority zones).                               zones - facility-based)                 priority zones)


IR1. Percentage of young adults who seek
treatment at a health center for STIs.         4.5%                                    20%


IR2. Percentage of men using condoms           6.6%                                    16%
during the previous week.


 IR3. Percentage of the budget of the FAP      60%                                     N.A.
allocated for local community initiatives,
including MURIGAs.


IR4 Percentage service providers who           57%                                     61%
respect the norms and standards for
reproductive health care.


IR5. Contraceptive continuation rate (12-36    12%                                     29%
months) in priority zones and sentinel sites.


IR6. Percentage of STI patients satisfied      73%                                     87%
with STI treatment and HIV/AIDS prevention
at sentinel sites.


IR7. Percentage births assisted by trained     70%                                     78%
personnel.


IR8 Percentage of obstetrical services         8%                                      16%
functional in priority zones (including
operating blocks for cesareans) .


 IR9 Percentage of clients satisfied with      97%                                     99%
reproductive health services in priority zones.


 IR10 Percent of women accompanying            62%                                     80%
children able to explain the care prescribed to
their children (exit interviews).


IR11 Percentage of clients satisfied with      97%                                     Note: IMCI was not implemented, including
quality of IMCI services in priority zones.                                            in priority zones.

1End of project




                                                                  - 24 -

Annex 1A: Planned and completed activities

                   Activities Planned                      Activities completed
1. Population Growth and Reproductive Health
Awareness
1.1. Increased awareness of population and development
issues and
1.2 Increased promotion of positive and safer behavior:
-- four national training workshops, 36 advocacy training  - 24 trainers trained at national BCC workshop (2000);
sessions in 33 prefectures and three communes in           - "animateurs" trained in behavior change
Conakry;                                                   communication (BCC) and advocacy in four (4) regions
                                                           and Conakry (103 trained, or 20 per region)
                                                           -- Prefecture-level training sessions not financed.
                                                           Animateurs trained at regional level were to have led
-- 32 regional and 120 prefectoral information sessions (4 prefectural sessions, but no data are available on how
themes per region/prefecture);                             many took place.
Training of youth "animateurs" in BCC and themes
specific for youth.
-- 28 trainers trained at national level                   Done.
-- 90 trained in four regions (Basse Guinee, Moyenne
Guinea, Haute Guinea, Conakry)                             Done (95 youth trained)

Training of youth leaders and peer educators (220 trained  Training workshops held in 4 prefectures, reaching 40
in 11 priority prefectures).                               peer educators. At least some of these are still active.
                                                          - Two national youth associations benefited (Associations
- Reproductive health training for national youth         de Jenes de Guinea (CAJEG) and Alliance Nationale pour
association                                               la Promotion de la Santé Reproductive des Adolescents et
                                                          Jeunes (ANAP/SR/AJ))
Three series of workshops on reproductive health for
journalists and traditional communicators;                 [Not available]
Mass media campaigns,
- design and pretest of messages,                          Done (piloted in Conakry and Kindia).
- dissemination of messages for local and mass media,
including annual information campaigns on reproductive     - Five RH documentaries and nine video clips produced
health issues and information and advocacy among           (broadcast 100+ times in 2001-01).
religious leaders.                                         - development and broadcasts of documentary on female
                                                           excision,
                                                           - local radio/TV broadcasts of nine "roundtables" on
                                                           reproductive health issues
                                                           - youth radio "game shows" on RH (70 broadcasts)
                                                           -- religious and local leaders involved in some
                                                           information campaigns and training (no quantitative data
                                                           available).
                                                           - Sponsored four Population and Environment `caravans,'
                                                           which toured about six prefectures each for two weeks in
                                                           1999 and 2000.
Support for youth activities:
- Rehabilitation and equipping of Division des Activités
Socio-educative in the Ministry of Youth and Sport         Done.

- Purchase 50 bicycles and 100 communication kits
purchased for youth `animateurs'                           Done
- Development and distribution of BCC materials
- Material and financial support for National Youth Days
                                                           500 audio cassettes and 25 video-cassettes distributed.
                                                           Done (2000 and 2001 only).
Provision of counseling services in "maisons des jeunes," Peer educators trained through project are providing youth



                                                            - 25 -

"centres d'ecoute," school health facilities, other youth counseling in some "maisons de jeunes" and "centres
gathering places;                                         d'ecoute" (no data on numbers/percent)


Rehabilitate four (4) `centres d'ecoute' for youth        Not done. Furniture purchase for 10 CECOJE that were
(CECOJE)                                                  established by other partners.
* These health infrastructure are planned to be completed and/or equipped by the subsequent health project, currently under
preparation.




                                                            - 26 -

Strengthening referrals for clinic services for youth.
-- construct 10 school health centers                       Constructed, but not equipped.*

-- train service providers at Centres d'Ecoute              Not done.
Development of a National Multisectoral HIV/AIDS                 Done (2001).
Strategy (not originally planned)
Activities targeting men and women of reproductive age:
Develop national strategy against female genital
mutilation.                                                      Done (strategy developed in partnership with local
                                                                 NGO (CPTAFE))
Rehabilitate six (6) women's centers (CAAF)
                                                                 Three CAAF rehabilitated, but not functional.
Training of trainers to improve the quality of sexual health
and counseling by facilty-based service providers and            Not done.
community-based promoters.
1.3 Improved equity and access t
o reproductive health services for vulnerable groups
Support for a Population Support Fund (PSF) to provide           74 microprojects approved out of 312 submitted for
flexible financing to communities and local NGOs,                financing, for a total of US$702,500.
including for awareness-raising and advocacy for
population and reproductive health, women's status and           Capacity building grants were provided to 10 NGOs.
reducing FGM, community based distribution of
contraceptives, and safe motherhood initiatives.
2. Reproductive Health and Maternal and Child
Health
2.1 Rationalized management of support for reproductive
and child health services :

Development of supervision modules for decentralized             Done.
structures.

Development of guidelines on the decentralized                   Done, but detailed directives not yet issued.
management of the health sector.
Development of national training plan for reproductive           Done.
health;

Reproductive health training for 90 trainer-supervisors (10      28 trainers trained (3 per region).
per region)

Reproductive health training for providers.                      Not financed.
Quality Assurance
-- development of Quality Assurance modules                      Modules developed.

-- training of national trainers in quality assurance;           40 persons trained.
Improved management of logistics for medicines, vaccines,Vehicles and cold chain equipment purchased..
and contraceptives.
2.2 Contraceptives, STD/HIV/AIDS, family planning
services
(i) rehabilitation of 15 existing health centers, and            5 health centers rehabilitated and operational.

integration of RH services through provider training and         Contraceptives purchased. Provider training not
provision of contraceptives;                                     financed.
(ii) operations research on reproductive health in two           Two clinics rehabilitated but remain unequipped.*
model clinics
(iii) establishment of ten specialized health posts in           Five rehabilitated, but not equipped. *
locations with a high risk of HIV/STI transmission;




                                                            - 27 -

- 28 -

(iv) development of community based distribution of            - 600 village birth attendants trained in the 4 MURIGA
contraceptives in selected provinces;                          prefectures.
                                                               - CDB activities carried out by some NGOs financed by
                                                               FAP (no data on numbers).
                                                               - AGBEF piloted limited CBD activities, but has not
                                                               been scaled up nationally.
(v) purchase of consumables for prevention of                  Project purchased HIV test kits, a CD4 counter and
HIV/AIDS, including improved blood safety through              supplies.
provision of HIV test kits
                                                               Project co-sponsored first HIV prevalence survey in
                                                               2001.
2.3 Safe Motherhood and Child Health services:                .
Emergency Obstetrical program in eight of the most
underserved prefectures,
-- training of obstetricians and their teams in Emergency     Completed in 4 prefectures.
Obstetrical Care;
-- construction and rehabilitation of operating theatres in Three completed, but remain unequipped.*
eight (8) prefectures.
-- provision of vehicles and radios in eight (8) prefectures; Four ambulances purchased (one each for for four
                                                              prefectures), plus radio equipment for prefectural hospital
                                                              and rural clinics.
-- Support development of Programme National Maternité
Sans Risque                                                   Done.
Establish 111 community solidarity funds for safe              32 MURIGA established in four Prefectures;
motherhood (" MURIGA") in 11 underserved prefectures; three-quarters reported to be functional.
Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI),
- development of a community IMCI strategy
- training of trainers and providers in IMCI                   Done.
- provision of essential drugs and supervision support         Not done.
for IMCI.                                                      Not done.
Rehabilitation of three reproductive health clinics            Completed but unequipped. *
(originally to be financed by PSN project)
3. Institutional Capacity (US$1.5 million)
3.1 Strengthened capacities to better manage population
programs through financing of three policy dialogue
workshops; modeling and projection economic and
population trends,

Dissemination of results of the 1999 Demographic and           Several workshops sponsored, as well as secondary
Health Survey (DHS).                                           analysis of population projections.

Support to Direction National de la Statistique received       Computer and office equipment purchased.
project support for the collect and analysis of demographic
data
3.2 National Coordination of Population and Health
(i) support to the National Population Commission
(CNPRH)
- rehabilitation and equipping of their national office,
- support for salaries of recruited professional and support Done.
staff, and support for national and international
consultants;                                                   Project supported salaries and financed consultants.
                                                               Modest impact on capacity.
(ii) establishment of regional branches of the national        Decrees issued, but only one branch functional.
population council;
(iii) provision of equipment for all eight Regional Health     - Furniture, computer and audiovisual equipment
Directorates and rehabilitation of offices for Regional        provided for eight Regional Health Directorates




                                                               - 29 -

Health Directorates.                                       - rehabilitated offices for 3 DRS,
                                                           - rehabilitated 3 Directorate Prefectural de la Santé
                                                           (DPS) and equipped a total of 4 DPS.
* These health infrastructure are planned to be completed and/or equipped by the subsequent health project, currently under
preparation.




                                                            - 30 -

ANNEXE 1B : SITUATION DES FORMATIONS EN PLAIDOYER ET CCC

N°      Type de formation                     S/C               Niveau                 N.       N. personnes
                                                                                  personnes à      formées
                                                                                    former
1       Formation des Formateurs et           1.1               Central                24             24
        animateurs CCC/Plaidoyer

2       Formation d'animateurs                1.2      Zone Spéciale Conakry           20             21
        CCC/Plaidoyer                                       Basse Guinée               20             25
                                                          Moyenne Guinée               20             21
                                                            Haute Guinée               20             23
                                                          Guinée Forestière            20             23
                                                                Total                 100             103
3       Formation des animateurs en           1.2               Central                28             28
        techniques de CCC et thèmes                    Zone Spéciale Conakry           24             24
        spécifiques axés sur les jeunes

                                                            Basse Guinée               16             20
                                                          Moyenne Guinée               20             19
                                                            Haute Guinée               16             14
                                                          Guinée Forestière            14             18
                                                       Total                           90             95
4       Formation des pairs éducateurs        1.2     Préfectures prioritaires
                                                      Beyla                            20              0
                                                      Dubréka                          20             20
                                                      Kankan                           20              0
                                                      Kérouané                         20             20
                                                      Koubia                           20              0
                                                      Kouroussa                        20              0
                                                      Lola                             20             20
                                                      Mali                             20             21
                                                      Mandiana                         20              0
                                                      Siguiri                          20              0
                                                      Télimélé                         20              0
                                                      Total                           220             81
5       Atelier de formation en AQSS          2.1     Régional (Dalaba)               NA              40
6       Atelier de formation en PCIME         2.3     Central y compris les           NA              65
        communautaire                                 cadres régionaux
        Atelier d'initiation de Députés de    3.1     Niveau central y compris        NA              30
        l'Assemblée Nationale sur les                 ceux de l'uninominal
        questions de Population et de SR

NA=Non application : En effet, il était prévu de réaliser des ateliers mais le nombre de personnes à former devait dépendre du
contexte et des réalités de terrain




                                                              - 31 -

ANNEX 1B ( Continued) : Formation Internationale
 N°       Type de formation                         S/C         Lieu              N. de       N. personnes
 7        Formation à l'extérieur sur divers                                  personnes à        formées
          domaines *                                                             former
 7.1      Communication interpersonnelle                Cotonou                    NA               1
 7.2      Secrétariat et Assistante de Direction        Cotonou                    NA               1
 7.3      Adapting to change                            Washington                 NA               2
 7.4      Adapting to change                            Dakar                      NA               6
 7.5      Formation des promoteurs de mutuelles         Dakar                      NA               4
 7.6      Formation en Système d'Information            Paris                      NA               2
          Géographique (SIG)
 7.7      Technique participative                   3.2 Yaoundé                    NA               1
 7.8      Communication efficace avec les jeunes        Lomé                       NA               1
 7.9      Fécondité et santé de la reproduction         Louvain La Neuve           NA               2
 7.10     Prise en charge psycho-sociale en matière     Lomé                       NA               2
          d'IST/VIH/SIDA
 7.11     Logiciel TOMPRO                               Paris                      NA               2
 7.12     Passation de marchés de travaux de type       Dakar                      NA               2
          BM
 7.13     Suivi Évaluation et Indicateurs           3.2 Montréal                   NA               1
 7.14     Assurance Qualité des Services et des         Niamey                     NA               4
          Soins de Santé (AQSS)
 7.15     Gestion décentralisée                         Washington                 NA               3
 7.16     Gestion financière de projets                 Montréal                   NA               1
 7.17     Gestion financière de projets                 Ouagadougou                NA               1
 7.18     Nouvelles technologies de l'information et    Paris                      NA               1
          de la communication dans les projets
          participatifs
 7.19     Épidémiologie                                 Cotonou                     4               2
                                                        Total                                       39


* Certaines formations bien que non prévues antérieurement se sont avérées nécessaire dans le cadre du renforcement
institutionnel
** Difficultés de placement dans les écoles




                                                          - 32 -

ANNEX 1C : List of Infrastructure Financed by PPSG Credit




                                            - 33 -

                                        DE FEVRIER 1999                   AU 31 DECEMBRE 2003
N°                    Libellé                                            Montant           Avancement
                 Total Marchés               Localités    Entreprises  total Marché          travaux
1  Réhabilitation Siège PPSG            Conakry         TMD                 44,904,552 Réception définitive
2  Réhabilitation Siège CPETAFE         Conakry         TMD                   9,319,500 Réception définitive
3  Réhabilitation bureaux DASE          Conakry         FPS                   4,234,500 Réception définitive
4  Constr.2 bureaux annexes PPSG        Conakry         ECOTRA               19,982,025 Réception définitive
5  Constr.clôture et toilette PPSG      Conakry         ECOTRA               17,033,345 Réception définitive
6  Construction CSR                     Koba            GETCO              136,439,211 Réception définitive
7  Aménagement extérieur IRS            Kankan          SGPI                16,720,900 Réception définitive
8  Réhabilitation CSR                   Daramagnaki     GETCO                89,858,545 Réception définitive
9  Réhabilitation Maternité             Gaoual          TMD                  45,109,300 Réception définitive
10 Aménag. laboratoire PNLS Donka       Conakry         EGUICOF               9,560,124 Réception définitive
11 Clôture et bétonnage SMI Coronthie   Conakry         ECOTRA               29,870,850 Réception définitive
12 Réhabilitation Direction Santé       Conakry         ECOTRA               57,589,546 Réception définitive
13 Construction DPS et CSU              Kérouané        GECEB-TP           455,144,111 Réception définitive
14 Constr. Auvent au MSP                Conakry         ECOTRA            6,769,600     Réception définitive
15 Aménagement locaux PNMSR             Conakry         EGCTP                 6,509,116 Réception définitive
16 Construction CSR                     Kondéyah        SKF                138,246,847 Réception définitive
17 Construction DPS et CSU              Kouroussa       ENGECO             356,918,935 Réception définitive
18 Construction/réhab.2 infirmeries     Kankan          Banafodé K.          74,620,858 Réception définitive
19 Réhabilitation D.R.S.                Labé            ECOTRA             104,467,524 Réception définitive
20 Réhabilitation CSR et IRS            O Kaba/Mam.     ADRGC                93,669,985 Réception définitive
21 Construction CSR                     Doko            SOGEFEL            315,720,550 Réception définitive
   Réhabilitation CAAF                  Siguiri
22 Construction DPS et CSU              Kankan          UCB-GC             386,857,368 Réception définitive
23 Réhabilitation CNPRH                 Kankan          UCB-GC              44,693,090 Réception définitive
24 Construction 2 infirmeries           Mamou           GUIBA TP             87,471,454 Réception définitive
25 Construction 2 infirmeries           Boké            Nabé & frères        91,571,420 Réception provisoire
26 Construction 2 infirmeries           Kindia          GETCO                87,273,700 Réception provisoire
27 Réhabilitation Bloc obstétrical      Gaoual          TMD                  82,884,481 Réception provisoire
28 Réhabilitation CSU                   Mandiana        UCB-GC               21,815,000 Réception provisoire
29 Construction 2 infirmeries           Labé            Nabé & Frères        75,794,468 Réception provisoire
30 Construction 3 CSA                   Yembéring       SOMT             1,993,875,288 Réception provisoire
                                        Tanéné Tondon
31 Construction CSR                     Cisséla         Banafodé K.        160,005,209 Réception provisoire
   Réhabilitation Bloc obstétrical      Kouroussa
32 Construction Siège AGBEF             Kankan
   Réhabilitation CAAF                  Kankan          AKC                289,368,275 Réception provisoire
   Construction Bloc Obstétrical        Mandiana
33 Construction Siège AGBEF             Kindia
   Construction CSR                     Tamagaly        Savane Guinée      407,901,518    réalisés à 90 %
   Réhabilitation CAAF                  Kissidougou
                                                          TOTAUX         5,762,201,195




                                                - 34 -

                                      LISTE DES INFRASTRUCTURES REALISEES SUR LE BND


N°                  Libellé                                          Montant          Avancement
                 Total Marchés           Localités    Entreprises  total Marché         travaux
1 Construction logement et clôture        Dubréka      EGC TP         99,674,952  Réception provisoire
  CSA de Moussayah
2 Réhabilitation du Laboratoire Nl
  2 Octobe et extention 4 bureaux         Conakry      GETCO         243,601,206     réalisés à 80%
  sur mézanine au PEV
                                                      TOTAUX              343,276,158




                                             - 35 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million  US$ million
Improve awareness of population issues and promote              4.50           1.90            42
adequate reproductive health practices

Improve quality and utilization of priority reproductive and    6.00           8.00           133
child health programs

Strengthening institutional capacity to manage and              1.50           2.50           167
coordinate Population and Reproductive Health Program

Total Baseline Cost                                            12.00         12.40
                          Total Project Costs                  12.00         12.40
                   Total Financing Required                    12.00         12.40


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                   Procurement Method1
    Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB        Other2        N.B.F.   Total Cost

1. Works                              2.10             0.69         0.13        0.00        2.92
                                     (1.61)           (0.43)      (0.00)        (0.00)     (2.04)
2. Goods                              2.87             0.00         0.00        0.00        2.87
                                     (1.17)           (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)     (1.17)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00         0.41        0.00        0.41
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.32)        (0.00)     (0.32)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                              4.97             0.69         0.54        0.00        6.20
                                     (2.78)           (0.43)      (0.32)        (0.00)     (3.53)




                                                   - 36 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Procurement Method1
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB               Other2           N.B.F.         Total Cost

    1. Works                                2.10               0.69              0.13             0.00              2.92
                                           (1.61)             (0.43)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.04)
    2. Goods                                2.87               0.00              0.00             0.00              2.87
                                           (1.17)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.17)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.41             0.00              0.41
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.32)            (0.00)           (0.32)
    4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               4.97               0.69              0.54             0.00              6.20
                                           (2.78)             (0.43)            (0.32)            (0.00)           (3.53)
   Source: SAP. Note that table includes only project items procured through ICR and NCB.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Improve awareness of            4.50         0.00                     1.80         0.01                  40.0      0.0
population issues and
promote adequate
reproductive health
practices

Improve quality and             6.00         0.00                     6.70         0.62                  111.7     0.0
utilization of priority
reproductive and child
health programs

Strengthening institutional     1.50         0.00                     2.50         0.42                  166.7     0.0
capacity to manage and
coordinate Population and
Reproductive Health
Program
   Note: Project Appraisal Document does not include estimates of government contributions.




                                                           - 37 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective
 Identification/Preparation
              06/14/1997               6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            HEALTH AND POPULATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                            CONSULTANTS (3)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/1998                  3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            HEALTH AND
                                            POPULATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            POUPLATION AND
                                            REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
                                            SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision
              10/15/1999               4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                            POPULATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
                                            SP (1); OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1)
              04/10/2000               3    SR OP. OFFICER TTL (1); SR       S               S
                                            POPULATION SPEC. (1);
                                            REPRODUCTIVE HLTH SPEC
                                            (1)
              11/22/2000               5    PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALI           S               S
                                            (1); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
                                            (1); TEAM
                                            LEADER/IMPLEMENTA (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
              05/02/2001               5    TEAM LEADER (1),                 S               S
                                            PRINCIPAL PUBLIC HEALTH
                                            SPECIALIST (1),
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1), REPRODUCTION HEALTH
                                            SPECIALIST (1),
                                            IMPLEMENTATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              11/09/2001               5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            POP/REPR. HEALTH (1);
                                            IMPLEMENTATION (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT



                                             - 39 -

                                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
               04/03/2002              5   TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (1);
                                           FAMILY PLANNING (1)

               12/27/2002              5   TEAM LEADER (1), SR.              S    S
                                           REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
                                           SPECIALIST (1), FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1), PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1), SR.
                                           IMPLEMENTATION
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               01/13/2003              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                           ECONOMIST, HEALTH SPEC
                                           (1); PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.
                                           (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               10/20/2003              6   TEAM LEADER (1), SR.              U    U
                                           REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
                                           SPECIALIST (1), FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1), PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1), SR.
                                           IMPLEMENTATION
                                           SPECIALIST (1), SR.
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
 ICR
               02/29/2004             5     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                                            SR. HEALTH
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); LEAD
                                            HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                            TEAM ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                        110013
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              53203
  Supervision                           94.2                       185699.3
  ICR                                  12.63                        9457.88
  Total                                                            358373.2




                                            - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Project Appraisal Document: Population and Reproductive Health Project. Report No. 18397-GUI.
     Octobre 26, 1998

  2. Development Credit Agreement: Population and Reproductive Health Project. Credit No. 3148-GUI.
     January 14, 1999

  3. Project Aide mémoires, 1996 ­ 2004

  4. Project Status Reports, 1999-2003

  5. "Revue a mi-parcours: Rapport d'Activities -- Projet Population et Sante Genesique," Ministere de la
     Sante, May 2001.

  6. "Evaluation des Messages Produits sur les Petits et Mass Medias par le PPSG," Mamadou Diallo,
     Conakry, May 2002.

  7. Education non formelle & santé génésique. Juillet-septembre 1997

  8. Rapport de l'étude de base relative aux Connaissances, attitudes comportement et pratiques des leaders
     d`opinion & décideurs en matière de planification familiale. Octobre 1997

  9. Facteurs socio-culturels et économiques de la mise en place des mutuelles au sein des groupements
     féminins pour la prise en charge des risques lies à la grossesse et à l'accouchement (MURIGA) novembre
     1997.

 10. Enquête Démographique et de Santé : 1999, Macro International.

 11. Etude rétrospective de la politique & programme national de population de la Guinée novembre 1997

 12. Stratégie nationale de formation continue en santé & reproduction, Ministere de la Sante, 2002.

 13. Rapport de l'atelier de lancement du PPSG, 1999.

 14. Revue des Dépense Publique, 2003.

 15. Population Services International (PSI), « Enquete Menage PF Guinea : Etude Sur l'Utilization et la
     Disponibilité des Produits Contraceptives », Conakry, Fevrier 2004.

 16.  Population Services International (PSI), « Etude Quantitative sur la Santé Reproductive des Adolescents
     de 13 à 24 Ans en Guinea » Conakry, septembre 2002.

 17. "Statistiques Annuaires" (1999, 2001), Ministere de la Sante.




                                                    - 43 -

Additional Annex 8. Supplementary Data

Table A1: Reproductive Health knowledge and behavior (household data)
                                                                            1999 DHS
 Percentage of women excised                                                   99%
 Percentage girls excised or whose mother plans to excise                      93%
 HIV/AIDS knowledge and behavior
     Percentage women who have heard of HIV/AIDS                               95%
     Percentage men who have heard of HIV/AIDS                                 96%
     Percentage women who used a condom in most recent                         3.3%
 sexual contact (of those with sexual contact in past year)
     Percentage men who used a condom in most recent sexual                    16%
 contact (of those with sexual contact in past year)



Table A2: Sales of socially marketed condoms and contraceptives (PSI brands)
                                                    1999          2000          2001          2002          2003
Yearly Prudence Plus Sales (socially                4,986,713     5,622,10      6,000,99      7,705,59      6,773,570
marketed condoms)                                                 9             0             0             *
Socially marketed oral contraceptive                120,658       178,242       352,767       526,183       387,113**
sales (Planyl)
Depo Provera Sales (PSI brand)                      41,450        59,156        87,770        135,325       84,611**
Source: Populations Services International (PSI), Conakry.
Notes: * the decrease in sales is largely attributable to the doubling of the consumer price;
** the sales decrease in 2003 is due to efforts to eliminate the presence of PSI's hormonal contraceptives from the parallel
market (i.e. all sales outlets other than state sanctioned pharmacies). Figures include sale from all sources ­ private
pharmacies, markets, and public clinics and hospitals. About four-fifths of women purchase PSI brand Depro-Provera at
government health facilities, compared two-fifths for Planyl oral contraceptives.

Table A3: Trends in Reproductive Health Service Data (government facilities)
                                                    1999          2001
Prenatal Consultation (ANC)
   First consultation (total)                          234,219     222,728
   Percentage pregnant women with at                    67%          60%
least one consultation
Family Planning Services
  New Contacts                                         30,476        N.A.
  Total consultations                                  107,428       N.A.
Assisted Deliveries
   Health center                                       38,418       39,595
   Trained Village Birth Attendant (AV)                35,076       42,305
   Hospital                                            19,083       18,454
  Percentage births at health facility                  16%          16%
  Percentage assisted births (all)                      26%          27%
Source: Ministry of Health, Annuaires des Statistiques Sanitaires




                                                               - 44 -

- 45 -

