Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No: 18397-GUI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
POPULATION AND REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH PROJECT
October 26, 1998
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT II
AFRICA REGION



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1998)
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc
US$1 = FG1,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL             Adaptable Program Lending
ASSFEGMASSI   Association Femmes Guineennes contre les Maladies Sexuellement Transmissibles et SIDA
BCPS            Bureau de Coordination Population - Sante
BEPR            Bureau de Programmation, Etudes et Recherche
CBD             Community Based Distribution
CERREGUI        Centre de Recherche en Sante Reproductive en Guin&
CNPRH           Commission Nationale de la Population et des Ressources Humaines
CYP             Couple - Year Protection
DAAF            Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres
DALY            Disability Adjusted Life Years
DHS             Demographic and Health Survey
DIEM            Direction de l 'Infrastructure, de l 'Equipement et du Materiel
DNSP            Direction Nationale de la Sante Publique
DSR             Division de la Sante de la Reproduction
ECD              Early Childhood Development
EPI             Enlarged Program of Immunization
FAMPOP          Projet Famille et Population
FGM             Female genital Mutilation
ICPD            International Conference on Population and Development (Cairo, 1994)
IMCI            Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
IMR             Infant Mortality Rate
IPPF            International Planned Parenthood Federation
MCH/FP          Maternal Child Health and Family Planning
MIS              Management Information System
MMR              Maternal Mortality Rate
MS              Ministere de la Sante
PHC             Primary Health Care
PHCO            Population and Health Coordination Office
PSF             Population Support Fund
PSI             Population Services International
QACS            Quality Assurance of Care and Services
RCH             Reproductive and Child Health
RH               Reproductive Health
SSA             Sub-Saharan Africa
STI             Sexually Transmitted Infections
TFR             Total Fertility Rate
U5MR            Under Five years old Mortality Rate
WDR             World Development Report
Vice Presidents              Jean-Louis Sarbib and Callisto Madavo
Country Director             Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager               Nicholas Burnett
Task Team Leader             Slaheddine Ben-Halima



Guinea
Population and Reproductive Health Project
CONTENTS
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE -------------------------------------- 2
1. Program and project development objectives and key performance indicators -----------2
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT--------------------------------------------5
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)----                   -    -----------5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy -        ---- -----------5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices: ----     ----------7
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION  SUNiMARY ---------------------------------------- 14
1. Project components---------------------------------------------------------------------------------14
2. Target populations and institutional beneficiaries-----------   --        -5----------- I
3. Benefits--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements----               - ------------------16
D: PROJECT RATIONALE----                      ------------------------------------19
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: --------------------------------- 19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ------- 20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: -------------------------------------------21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:----------------------------------------- 22
5. Value added of Bank support in this project: -------------------                    22
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ------------------------------------ 23
1. Economic ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 23
2. Financial Assessment -------------------------------------------------------------------------------24
3. Technical Assessment :---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 24
4. Institutional Assessment: ------- - - ---- ----24
5. Social Assessment: ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 25



6. Environmental Assessment: --------------------------------------------------------------------- 26
7. Participatory Approach: ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 26
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS----------------- -------------------------------- 27
1. Sustainability ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- 27
2. Criticall Risks ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 28
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:---------------------------------------------------------------------- 29
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ------------------------------------------------------ 29
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION -------------------------------------- 31
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES------- ------------------------------- 31



Annexes
Annex 1:                 Program and Project Design Summary
Annex 2:                 Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:                 Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:                 Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5:                 Financial Summary
Annex 6:                 Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A:           Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al:          Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B:           Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C:           Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7:                 Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:                 Documents in Project File
Annex 9:                 Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10:                Country at a Glance
Additional annexes: Letter of Sector Policy
Map



Republic of Guinea
Population and Reproductive Health Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Country Department 16
Date: October 26, 1998                     l Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Slaheddine Ben-Halima
Country Director: Mamadou Dia             I Sector Manager/Director: Nicholas R. Bumett/Birger J. Fredriksen
Project ID: GN-PE-41568    Sector: Pop. Health &  Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Nutrition
Lending Instrument: ADAPTABLE LENDING PROGRAM         Program  of Targeted I [X]  Yes   1[ ]  lNo
I Intervention:
Program Financing Data (US$M)           Sources of Financing
APLs
Total Cost      Government       Others         IDA
First Phase:     1998 - 2002             12.00          0.60              0.10            11.30
Second Phase:    2003 - 2006            16.00           1.20              1.30            13.50
Third Phase:     2007 - 2010            16.00           2.00              1.80            12.20
Program Total Cost                44.00            3.80             3.20            37.00
Project (First Phase) Financing Data    []  Loan   [X ]  Credit  []  Guarantee   []  Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): 11.3US $ / 8.5 SDRm
Proposed Terms:                           [X]  Multicurrency  []   Single currency
Grace period (years):      10             [X]  Standard       []   Fixed      []  LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity:         40
Commitment fee:            0.75 %
Service charge:            0.75 %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                             Local                  Foreign           Total
Government                                         0.60                                      0.60
Cofinanciers                                       0.10                                      0.10
IBRD/IDA                                           3.50                   7.80              11.30
Total    4.20                   7.80               12.00
Borrower: Government of Guinea
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsible agency: Ministry of Health
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999   2000        2001          2002    2003
Annual                                     1.00    3.00       3.50          2.30    1.50
Cumulative                                 1.00    4.00       7.50          9.80    11.30
For Guarantees: N.A                             []   Partial             [] Partial risk
Credit
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing: N.A.
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?: N.A.       []    Yes                []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: March 15, 1999                    Closing date: December 31, 2003



Project Appraisal Doocument                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                     Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Program and project development objectives and key performance
indicators
The Program
The Population and Reproductive Health Program, which is started by this first phase (or project),
seeks to provide support to the Government of Guinea in its efforts to improve the well being of the
population, by preventing the risks related to reproductive health; preventing and reducing the
occurrence of illnesses among vulnerable groups and ultimately reducing infant, child and maternal
mortality rates. The program development objectives are to reduce the three major mortality rates --
infant, child and maternal, through (i) a slower population growth; (ii) safer behavior and adequate
health practices and; (iii) improved reproductive and child health services. The program will be
implemented in three phases, over a period of 12 years, the first phase being the present project. The
program would cover approximately 75% of the population, including 2 million adolescents and
young adults; 1.8 million women of reproductive age and 1 million children under five years of age.
Phase I will initiate the program, set fundamental frameworks and processes, and carry out activities
pertaining to top priorities among target populations. The main activities to be carried out during Phase
I include sessions for advocacy targeted at three segments of population in Conakry and selected
regions; health promotion by communicators and community volunteers in the same areas and mass
media information campaigns; provision of funds to support grassroots activities for vulnerable groups
and to implement activities in relation to RCH; renovation, rehabilitation and equipment of health
facilities, and provision of training and supportive supervision to service providers and support staff in
order to achieve rationalization of decentralized management; quality assurance of RCH services;
prevention and treatment needs of groups at highest risk and coordination and management of
Population and RCH programmes.
Before the end of the first phase, triggers (outlined in the table below) will be assessed prior to the
appraisal of Phase II. It will ensure that conditions to continue program implementation are warranted.
The purpose of triggers'assessment will be to attest that legal, institutional, administrative and technical
frameworks are in place, as elements of the required supportive environment of priority activities.
Phase II will expand and consolidate activities It will progress towards the same objective as in Phase I
and will include the same three components with broader scope and increased quantity. Main activities
will include: expansion of advocacy to regions and prefectures for targeted segments of population and
intensification of mass media campaigns; full fledged community based communication program and
referral services addressing the needs of youth cohorts; funding of another batch of collaborating NGOs
and grassroots activities; management and support for the delivery of family planning, obstetrical and
child health services will be expanded and performed more efficiently. Quality Assurance teams will
be operating in all Prefectoral Health Directorates; family planning/contraceptive services, standardized
treatment of malnutrition and integrated management of childhood illnesses (IMCI) will be provided at
first levels of care and referral. The surveillance, prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted
infections (STI) will be more systematized and increased and the prevention of HIV/AIDS and
treatment of opportunistic diseases in AIDS patients will become integral part of RH services;
community based distribution and services will be promoted and developed.



Project Appraisal Doocument                    Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                 Page 3
Before the end of the second phase, triggers and benchmarks (outlined in detail in table below) will be
assessed, prior to the appraisal of Phase III. The assessment will aim at ensuring that systems and
processes put in place have not suffered any setbacks, are benefiting from supportive environment, are
accepted and integrated into routine operation. They would then be considered amenable to expansion,
consolidation and sustainability.
Phase III will ensure continuity and sustainability. This phase will progress towards the same objective
as in Phases I and II and will include the same three components with an emphasis towards consolidation
of systems and processes, and sustainability of achievements, including financing. Main activities
included in this phase would tentatively aim at ensuring that: communicators and peer counselors are
active in all prefectures; it will be the phase of ownership for the advocacy program by opinion/cultural
leaders is near completion. Active lobbyists are reporting on progress of the effective ban of F.G.M;
population and development data are desaggregated by gender, on a routine basis, and regularly reported
to decision makers at all levels. This third phase of the adaptable program will ensure that volunteers and
distributors in communities are able to redesign as needed, and with limited assistance, communication
activities that meet their reproductive and child health needs. Gradual devolution of health programmes
is completed. For activities with lower performances, consultative workshops will be carried out to
analyze issues, redefine strategies and plan the required improvements
Phase I years    October 1998 - December 2002
Phase Purpose  initiate the program, set fundamental frameworks and processes, and carry out
activities pertaining to top priorities among target populations
Triggers and    * National and Regional Committees for Population and Human Resources are
Benchmarks    functional.
for Appraising   * Actions planned to lift legal barriers to the sale and advertisement of
subsequent      contraceptives completed.
Phase           * Action plan to enforce law forbidding Female Genital Mutilations is finalized.
* Regulatory, financial and administrative guidelines of decentralization are
issued and applied.
* Members of QACS nominated for all regions and prefectures
* Technical standards and procedures for QACS for Reproductive and Child
Health are issued and applied in target areas.
* A Comprehensive Plan for the Pharmaceutical Sub-sector is finalized.
Expected        * Endorsement of social and economic benefits of planned parenthood by at
outputs and     least 50% opinion leaders and decision makers.
outcomes to be   * At least 25% of childbirths are attended by trained birth attendants.
assessed and    * Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) in urban areas, condoms and
monitored      spermicides not included, is over 15% in 2002
during phase    * At least 65% of annual operational plans are submitted and implemented on
implementation  time
* Monitoring and evaluation system permits follow-up on implementation and
on assessment of achievements in regions and in at least 65% of prefectures.
Phase II Years  January 2003 - December 2006
Phase Purpose   Phase II will expand and consolidate activities. It will progress towards the same
objective as in Phase I and will include the same three components with a broader
scope and an increased quantity.



Project Appraisal Doocument                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                 Page 4
Triggers and    * National policy dialogue is based on the program results and issues that are
Benchmarks    identified downstream
for Appraising   * Decentralized line agencies have full decision making authority and
subsequent      accountability on the execution of programmes.
Phase           * By 2006, at least 50% of the communities have representatives in the
management of the first levels of care and referral.
* Community based Early Childhood Development (ECD) services.
* Technical standards and procedures for QACS for Reproductive and Child
Health are applied nationwide.
Expected        * Overall clients' satisfaction for Reproductive and Child Care and Services is at
outputs and     least at 50%.
outcomes to be   * High risk pregnancies reduced by 30% in 2006.
assessed and    * Infant Mortality rate at 100 per thousand in 2006.
monitored       * Nationwide CPR, condoms and spermicides not included, at 16% in 2006
during phase    * 100% of annual operational plans are submitted and implemented on time
implementation  * Monitoring and evaluation system permits follow-up on implementation and on
assessment of achievements in regions and in all prefectures.
Phase III Years  January 2007 - December 2010
Phase Purpose   Phase III will ensure continuity and sustainability. This will include the same
components with an emphasis towards consolidation of systems and processes,
and sustainability of achievements including financing.
Triggers and    * Reduction of natural population growth: from 2.8 % in 1997 to 2% by 2010
Benchmarks    Crude Birth rate: from 4.1 % in 1997 to 3.3% by 2010
for Appraising   Total Fertility Rate (TFR) from 5.7 in 1997 to 4.2 by 2010.
subsequent      * Changes in opinions about reproductive health and safer health practices.
Phase           * Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) brought from 136.3 in 1997 to under 100 per
thousand by 2010
* Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) brought from 666 in 1997 to 350 per 100 000
live births by 2010.
Expected        * Overall clients' satisfaction for Reproductive and Child Care and Services is at
outputs and     least at 75%.
outcomes to be   * High risk pregnancies reduced by 60% by 2010
assessed and    * Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR), excluding barrier methods, over 25%
monitored       by 2010
during phase    * HWV/AIDS prevalence under 5% by 2010.
implementation  * Improved flow of funds and allocation of resources.
* Monitoring and evaluation system routinely used as a management tool at all
levels in the health system and linked with other sectors.
N.B: See also Attachments I and 2 of Annex I of the PAD.



Project Appraisal Doocument                   Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                Page 5
The project
The overall development objective of the project (phase I) is to initiate priority activities and set the
building blocks (i.e. legal and regulatory frameworks, managerial and delivery processes) of the
phased program in support of the Government of Guinea's efforts to improve (1) awareness of
population issues and promotion of safer reproductive health behavior; (2) the quality and utilization
of priority reproductive and child health programs; and (3) institutional capacity to manage and
coordinate Population and Reproductive Health Programs.
In addition to the performance indicators defined in the logical framework, this first phase includes
the following activities that will be tested and adjusted as the program expands: (i) Standardized
Supportive Supervision of Reproductive Health; (ii) Quality Assurance of Care and Services; (iii)
Active Participatory Research at community level that will lead to participation in solidarity funds
scheme for Safe Motherhood; and (iv) Monitoring effectiveness of the administrative set-up and
ensuring more structured participation of beneficiaries and communities in local decision making for
reproductive health matters.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Report No.: 17183 GUI   Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/16/1997
CAS objective: "To improve the quality of service delivery for poverty reduction".
"Helping improve service delivery is an important cornerstone of our strategic framework, and will
be pivotal to the enhancement of Guinea's growth prospects. Access to key public services and
effective human resource development would, by maximizing human productivity, help reduce urban
and rural poverty". Regarding Population, the CAS states that "Population problems in Guinea are
substantial. The Government recognizes the macroeconomic and social implications of population
growth and is fully committed to addressing the issue. In addition to the emphasis on girls'
education, there is also recognition of the need to enlarge the scope of family planning services and
to ensure their integration into the Primary Health Care (PHC) system. The program targets for 2010
are to bring down the rate of population growth to 2 percent and reduce the crude birth rate to 33 live
births per thousand inhabitants. The population and reproductive health project will provide an
excellent window for addressing gender-related concerns and would finance a population support
fund specially targeted at the reproductive health of women and other vulnerable groups".
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Background information
Although Guineans are often moving back and forth from rural to urban areas, three - fourths of the
resident population are considered rural dwellers, a third of whom still live in remote underserved
areas. Total resident population was 6,505,355 inhabitants in the 1996 Census, with an annual



Project Appraisal Doocument                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                 Page 6
population growth rate of 2.8%, one of the highest rates in Sub Saharan Africa. As of 1992, the
median age for marriage was 15.8 years, and total fertility rate (TFR) was 6.1 live births per woman
between the ages of 15 - 49 (est. from DHS 1992). Guinea is comparatively disadvantaged in the
Africa Region: the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) is around 137 per thousand (103 for Sub Saharan
Africa, SSA); the infanto-juvenile mortality rate is estimated at 229 per thousand (157 for SSA in
1995), and is higher in Upper and Forest Guinea. Adult illiteracy was very high until 1990, with
76% of the total population and 85% of the female population being illiterate. Thanks to the
combined efforts of Government and donors, notably USAID and the World Bank, female primary
school enrollment has tripled during the last six years (37% in 1997).
Government strategy
Health Sector strategy: In November 1991, after assessing the actions undertaken since 1984 (the
year of the National Health Conference), the Government promulgated a new Health Policy
Statement (D6claration de Politique Sanitaire).  This document clearly stated that the policy
objectives are to improve the health status of the whole population by reducing morbidity and
mortality through a focus on vulnerable groups, particularly women and children. Another main
objective of this policy was to improve the supply, accessibility, quality, and efficiency of health
services. Moreover, it was stated that measures should be taken to control the population growth.
The latter was reinforced by the adoption of the National Population Policy in May 1992.
During the National Forum for the Health Sector held in May 19-21, 1997, the following five priority
strategies were adopted for the next program cycle from 1998 to 2010: (1) decentralization of the
health system and improvement of health coverage; (2) strengthening of managerial capacities; (3)
improvement of funding and financial management for the Health Sector; (3) strengthening of
integrated management of diseases and ; (5) improvement of reproductive health programs. The first
four priorities are already being addressed by the ongoing Bank-funded project, within the
framework of provision and expansion of health and nutrition services.
Population and Reproductive Health: Government's commitment to solving population growth has
been translated into the following actions: provision of institutional support to Reproductive Health
as one of the five priority-strategies of the next program cycle (1998 - 2010); promulgation of an
official statement targeting a contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) of 25 - 32 % by 2010, and, in April
1997 the launch of a program of action aimed at overriding legal barriers to the sale and
advertisement of contraceptives.  Following the recommendations of the 1994 International
Conference for Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo, the Reproductive Health program in
Guinea was redefined to meet the fertility needs of the population at different stages of the life cycle.
Therefore it includes four specific programs targeted at specific segments of the population and a
common  Information-Education-Communication  (IEC)  program   or  Behavior  Change
Communication Program (BCCP). The Reproductive Health policy, program, norms and procedures
were also approved by the Government during the National Forum for the Health Sector. Family
planning services are only being offered in 139 of the 321 health centers, mostly located in populated
and culturally diverse areas. There are plans to install post-partum family planning services in 15 of
33 prefectoral maternities and in two of the eight regional hospitals. The needs of rural areas were
recently addressed, with the Upper Guinea model of Community-Based Distribution being upheld
since March 1997 as the most cost-effective strategy for rural areas. It is now being expanded within
this region as well as in other villages in Forest Guinea. Finally, a Social Marketing program has
started supplying condoms and other family health-related products in 3,400 urban and rural sales



Project Appraisal Doocument                    Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                 Page 7
locations. With regards to HIV/AIDS, according to the projections of the "Programme National de
Lutte contre le Sida" (PNLS), without reinforcement of the program, HIV adult seroprevalence
would increase from 1.5% in May 1996 to 6% in 2000.
Local non governmental organizations (NGOs) and their current roles
Constituency for Population and Reproductive Health has been efficiently active since 1982, with
prominent advocates being grouped under The Guinean   Association for Family Welfare
("AGBEF"). Besides its advocacy role for the advancement of the Population and Reproductive
Health agenda, the association is providing services in 15 family planning clinics that are all located
in urban areas. AGBEF has four decentralized regional coordination bodies and has satisfactorily
implemented programs in collaboration with international NGOs such as PSI, Inc., and with the
UNFPA Field Office in Guinea. With regard to gender issues, there is still a range of female genital
mutilation (FGM) practices, despite their constant adverse and sometimes dramatic consequences on
women's health in all regions of Guinea. Fortunately, the issue is gradually making its way to the
priority list, thanks to the efforts of indigenous NGOs such as: the NGO of women lobbyists
(CPTAFE), the NGO of national researchers on Reproductive Health (CERREGUI) and the national
association of women against sexually transmitted diseases and AIDS (ASFEGMASSI). NGOs are
currently engaged in building a coalition and setting up action committees.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Issues addressed by the project                   Strategic choices
3.1. Population growth and low contraceptive prevalence rate:
High population growth: A high population  Noticeable improvements in the standard of living
growth rate of 2.8%  per year, with GDP  will not take place unless bold actions are carried
standing at 4%  and   per capita income out to slow down population growth. To do this,
increasing only at 1.2%, will offset the the first phase of the program will seek to obtain
accomplishments of the poverty reduction  involvement at the decision making levels, as well as
program.                                to establish broad-basedpopular awareness and
endorsement of reproductive health programs.
Consensus building through policy dialogue,
involvingfull participation of local NGOs, will be
funded.
Each of the three phases of the program will
address the unmet needs of youth and support
interventions to address population momentum and
its consequences on social sectors and the labor
force.



Project Appraisal Doocument                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 8
Population momentum: Births in larger    The sub-programfor youth intends to complement
youth cohorts will be much higher than those  other donors ' actions in schools and youth centers
in older cohorts, leading to the doubling of the and informal gathering places. Prevention and safe
population within 20 years and widening the   behavior (relating to safe sexual practices) will be
gap between economic and population growth  promoted through messages for youth groups,
rates. Moreover, studies have shown that  nationwide, through various media.
knowledge of positive and safe health
practices and sexually transmitted infections
(STIs) is insufficient among adolescents and
young adults. Thus, the AIDS fatality rate
among young women is likely to increase, and
sexually-related morbidity might greatly
strain the already meager health resources and
further decrease overall economic
productivity.
Initial high population growth and population  Most young Guineans are caught between
momentum are further aggravated by use of   traditional values and behaviors and the waves of
low contraceptives.                      relatively new modern culture, so there is a crucial
need to harmonize diverse influences into a renewed
family-life education. University and school-based
health centers, youth organizations and youth
centers will be strengthened to provide basic family-
life education, information and counseling services
for reproductive choices, and referral mechanisms
for emergency contraception and treatment of
sexually transmitted infections (STI) by specialized
services.
Low overall contraceptive practice: although   Within the Reproductive Health framework, and at
contraceptive services are offered in a third of the level of Safe Motherhood interventions, family
the country's primary care centers and   planning is yet to be viewed by most health
contraceptives are highly subsidized, the  practitioners, medical officers, health managers and
contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) for  key decision makers as highly cost-effective for
modem methods, including condoms, was    reducing infant, child and maternal mortality rates,
under 5% in 1992. Service statistics showed   while maximizing the effects ofpoverty alleviation
that while 62% of pregnant women attend at   programs.
least one prenatal visit, the number drops by
more than half for post-natal visits and the
CPR for modem methods is under 5%. Bank-
funded baseline data suggest that the majority
of providers need skills' upgrade on Family
Planning, as well as regular supervision.
Except for the AGBEF clinics, the extent of   Family planning and service for HIVISTIs will be
involvement of the private sector in family    expanded to improve physical access by diverse
planning delivery, although admittedly still   target groups. Services will thus be made available
limited, is likely to be underestimated. The    in the following locations: health centers, model



Project Appraisal Doocument                     Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                   Page 9
private sector comprises a large informal  clinics and clinics for high risk groups; University
sector in villages and small cities consisting of and school based health facilities; post-partum
an unknown (but probably significant)     care in maternities and community based, door-to-
number of practitioners of traditional    door services; and private pharmacies and vendors
medicine. These complement a small formal  in the Social Marketing program.
sector that employs about 57 medical doctors
and dentists, 51 nurses, and 128 pharmacists,
all based in urban areas.
The program will support supervisory training of
facility-basedpractitioners, health promoters and
trained/supervised independent distributors. Upon
completion of initial courses, and to avoid skill
erosion, trained providers will take home minimum
equipment and a three to six month start-up kit of
contraceptives and essential drugs.
Expansion of quality family planning in the private
sector will be directed towards health care
providers and private pharmacies in the formal
private sector, as well as towards trained and
supervised independent community-based
distributors and vendors of the Social Marketing
program. An effort will be made to inform potential
users of the advantages of seeking affordable
services from trained, licensed and supervised
providers, distributors and vendors.
Traditional determinants of fertility behavior:  The sub-program will support behavior change
Despite constant and sometimes dramatic   communication activities that will help women to
consequences on women's health, a range of   safely achieve their reproductive goals, while
female genital mutilations are still practiced    developing culturally acceptable gender awareness.
for traditional and non-religious reasons in all  Involvement of NGOs, such as COFEG, will be
regions of Guinea.                        systematically soughtfor the implementation of
grassroots programs financed by the Population
Support Fund (PSF). Eligible NGOs could be, for
instance, women 's groups or cooperatives
requesting the introduction of reproductive health
information, or services, in their activities, or NGOs
that are in the process of building a coalition to
drastically reduce harmful traditionalpractices.
Examples of activities that can be funded include
"reconversion des exciseuses" and "vacances sans
excision ".
Furthermore, within the extended family, a The booklet "Guide Pratique des Droits de la
woman's integration depends on the birth of a Femme" will be made available throughout existing
first child. Male children are valued by  women 's centers and centersfor legal assistance to



Project Appraisal Doocument                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 10
women because they are the gateway to  women. Support will also be provided to advocates
earlier access to land attribution, and thus a of women 's rights andfor activities aiming at
regular personal source of income, as well as completion and adoption of the Family Code.
power in the household. A large number of
children can further enhance a woman's  The PSF will also finance the creation of
prestige in the family and communities. community-based solidarityfunds for the risks
Finally, male children are equally valued by related to pregnancy and childbirth.
men and women because they will later give
the fathers more political clout in the
community.
3.2. Insufficient prevention of STI/HIV/AIDS:
Contraceptive practice is not always     Due to the absence of a cure and the high costs of
accompanied by a consistent prevention of the  treatment of opportunistic infections caused by
transmission of STI/HIV/AIDS. Data from  AIDS and its lethal outcome, the program will
the National Program of Action against   emphasize prevention of STI and HIV infection
STI/AIDS (Programme National de Lutte    among the large youth cohorts (IO - 24 years old),
contre le SIDA, PNLS), the West African  through a strong communication program for
program of Canadian Cooperation and       behavioral change. A behavioral change
SIDALERTE - Guinee showed that the       communication program will include messages and
primary mode of transmission in Guinea is    sessions on adequate and consistent use of
heterosexual contact. STIs rank 6th among    condoms. As decision makers in families and
causes of reported morbidity, with gonorrhea  communities, men andfathers will be priority
ranking 7th in outpatient statistics,    targets of the communication program. However,
nationwide. Syphilis seroprevalence among   women 's NGOs such as ASFEGM4SSI will be
screened pregnant women varies from 9.8%    involved and supported
in Northwestern prefectures to 11.8% in the
prefecture of Kindia.                    But prevention of HIV/AIDS will never be totally
effective unless the propagation of the AIDS
As for HIV, seroprevalence among sex     epidemic has been greatly reduced. The first phase
workers was 32% in 1994. In addition,    of the program will therefore address, at the
regular use of condoms is reported to be  primary care level, the needs of groups at highest
under 50% in the population at highest risk    risk such as sex workers and their clients, internal
such as commercial sex workers. HIV is also  migrant workers, and long distance truck drivers,
reactivating primo-infection of tuberculosis,   by supporting the creation and operation of
or aggravating tuberculosis symptoms.    screening and treatment services of STI/HIV/AIDS
Screening of nearly two thousand tuberculosis  in areas of exodus and intense circulation.
patients found in 1993 an overall HIV    Matching funds could be made availablefrom the
seroprevalence of 5.5%. Although AIDS    PSF to communities that provide support services
prevalence is under 2%, the trend is toward a  for AIDS patients.
noticeable increase, with Guinea already
having an epidemic of AIDS. Reported AIDS  At the referral level, the program willfinance
cases numbered only eight in January 1987,   regional STI/HIV screening and counseling services
but within less than a decade, the cumulative  for persons diagnosed with HIV infection and their
number of AIDS cases had reached 3080    entourage. Regional support to tuberculosis
(December 1996).                         patients with AIDS will be assessed during the first
period of the project.



Project Appraisal Doocument                     Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 11
Furthermore, on the other end of the continuum of
HIV/AIDS care and services, the program would
contribute to the installation of safe blood banks
and laboratories in the national andfour regional
Jhospitals.
3.3. High rates of infant, child and maternal mortalities:
High total fertility rate per woman is   Child Survival activities and Early Childhood
explained by the fact that women of      Development activities will be included in the
reproductive age are trying to compensate for  program. Support to maternal health services will
high infant and child mortality rates. High  be funded
fertility in turn leads to an increased number
of high risk pregnancies and maternal deaths.
Malnutrition among women and increased    Young children are affected by the health status and
childhood illnesses Women are suffering  well being of their mothers. Adequate nutrition and
from malnutrition and anemia in Guinea.  care provided to women during pregnancy, delivery
This is so because without an average birth    and post-partum will significantly affect the survival
spacing of 24 months between the end of the   and physical, emotional and mental development of
breastfeeding period and the beginning of the  children. Accordingly, in addition to behavior
next pregnancy, there is not enough time to   change communication for safer pregnancies and
reach the required energy level to safely  births, the program willfund community-based
expect another child, resulting in low birth    services for maternal nutrition, child survival and
weight of newborns. Among under 5 year old  early childhood development (e.g. outreach and
children, a third of those aged 3 months to 5   growth monitoring community programs;
years suffer from chronic malnutrition, 11.5%  preparation of local weaningfoods and
from acute malnutrition. Malnutrition is  immunizations). During its three phases, the
reported to be the third cause of death (18%),  program will support immunization outreach
after combined deaths by measles and acute   activities and supervision and training offacility-
respiratory infections (30%). To lessen  basedproviders on "Integrated Management of
mortality from malnutrition-related childhood  Childhood Illnesses " (IMCI), including treatment of
illnesses, Guinean public facilities are  proteino-caloric malnutrition.
simultaneously delivering preventive and
curative services through the "strategy to
decrease missed opportunities".
Post operative, post-cesarean infections often  In collaboration with rural communities, the
occur in prefectoral hospitals of underserved   program will build and equip 10 maternity waiting
areas, because one operating theater is used    shelters. Teams atprefectoral maternities will
for all surgical emergencies for the entire  receive the means to undertake safe motherhood
prefecture, often without allowing the 72  activities, such as distribution of micronutrients for
hours of mandatory regular sterilization.  pregnant women, identifcation and organization of
reliable communication and transportation systems
between communities, health centers, emergency
obstetrical services, as well as subsequent periodic
supervision of trained/skilled birth attendants.



Project Appraisal Doocument                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 12
Health teams in prefectures and health centers will
befundedfor training in Emergency Obstetrical
competencies and life saving techniques, as well as
supportive supervision of maternal health activities
and services, from communities up to referral
services.
Ten prefectoral hospitals of the most underserved
areas will be equipped with obstetrical operating
rooms, intensive care units and post operative
wards. Each referralfacility will have an
operational Quality Assurance Committee (QAC).
To begin with, support will be provided to existing
"Comites d' Hygiene Hospitaliere" to enable them
to modify their scope and means to conduct
prevention of nosocomial infections and Quality
Assurance, or at least Quality Improvement
activities.
Weaknesses of support services for        The project will provide assistance to strengthen
reproductive and child health: implementation  regional andprefectoral supportfor services.
of reformns for decentralized management has
been delayed due to insufficient planning and
limitation of resources that Government can
allocate. Regulatory, administrative and fiscal
responsibilities remain at the central level.
With budget and resource allocation being
centrally managed, delays of six months or
more often occur between allocation and
Lutilization by regions and prefectures, which
undermine the services rendered and result in
delays in funding requests for the next fiscal
year.
Databases of personnel involved in       Regional and prefectoral levels will be supported
reproductive and child health are not    for decentralized management and coordination of
maintained at implementation levels of the    reproductive and child health programs and
health systems, which makes it difficult to    improved allocation of resources, in collaboration
manage in-service staff training and     with bilateral and multilateral donors active at
development.                             regional level. Prefectoral annual workplans,
budgets and supervisory training for Reproductive
and Child Health will be standardized, nationwide.
Elements  of Health  Management Information
System that are directly connected to Reproductive
and Child Health will be strengthened by the
project.



Project Appraisal Doocument                      Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                    Page 13
Databases of health personnel and auxiliaries will
be updated to include evaluation of
performances;skills ' assessment and training needs;
upgrading of skills will be carried out, in the form of
supportive supervisory training, and later through
the operations of quality improvement teams on
service delivery sites.
Physical inventories of equipment and     Assistance for other support services at these
material are available at central level, but  implementation levels will include:
operational inventories of the same cannot be  (a) repairs or replacement of critical elements of
regularly updated at implementation levels.    contraceptives, essential drugs and vaccines/cold
Logistics for the Enlarged Immunization    chain logistics;
program (EPI) are operational but most of the  (b) improved capacityfor drug supply, storage,
equipment and materials need repair or     distribution and utilization by setting the
replacement; up until now, the logistics   managerialframeworkfor proper inventory;
system has been almost totally dependent on   adequate forecasting and timely procurement;
donor support.                             quality assurance ofproducts and timely delivery
and ordering of supplies; and education of
consumers andproviders. At the beginning of the
first phase, the program will set the regulatory
framework and processes for Quality Assurance of
contraceptives, essential drugs and vaccines. In
addition, the project will renew one-year buffer
stocks of contraceptives and generic essential drugs
for regions, health centers and distributors in
project areas, selected school-relatedfacilities,
and model clinics;
(c) strengthening of the Quality Assurance of
service delivery. The program willprovide support
to the public office in charge of: application of
norms, procedures and standards setting; quality
improvement of delivery; monitoring of client
satisfaction; supervision and accreditation of
private health care facilities, licensing of categories
ofproviders and trained vendors; and enforcement
of rules and regulations. The Public Health Code
will be made available to all regional and
prefectoral health offices.



Project Appraisal Doocument                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 14
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component              Category            Costs of 1 st phase      % of Total
(US$M)
(1) - initiating   - Institutional, physical,
awareness of       policy, behavioral change
population issues;   communication
promotion of safer                                  4.50                   40
reproductive health
behavior
(2) - launching     - Institutional, physical,
improved quality of policy, Quality of Support
and access to      Services and Care                6.00                   48
services in order to
increase utilization
of priority
reproductive and
child health
programs
(3)- setting       - Institutional capacity
institutional      building
capacity to better    - Project management          1.50                   12
manage and
coordinate
Population and
Reproductive
Health Programs
Total                           12.00                 100%



Project Appraisal Doocument                     Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 15
2. Target populations and institutional beneficiaries
Target populations:
The project (or first phase of the program) is expected to cover approximately 30 % of the total
population as follows:
Target groups for demand side activities (i. e. advocacy, communication for behavior change):
- decision makers from public and private sectors;
- community opinion leaders, fathers and male heads of household; and
- youth, low income women and communities;
Target groups for supply side activities (i.e. quality and access for reproductive health and child
health services):
- adolescents and young adults (10 - 24 years old) in selected areas = 600,000;
- women of reproductive age (15 - 49 years old) in selected areas = 591,360;
- children under five years old in selected areas = 290,182;
- reproductive health practitioners from public and private sectors in project areas;
- unemployed junior physicians and unemployed junior nurses
Institutional beneficiaries:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation: The National Commission on Population and Human
Resources ("C.N.P.R.H.") and its Executive Secretary
Ministry of Health:
-   Division of Reproductive Health, namely its decentralized programs of family planning, safe
motherhood, child health, and Communication for Behavior Change (formnerly IEC);
- School Based Health Services (" Service National de Sante Scolaire et Universitaire");
- The National Program of Action against STD/AIDS ("Programme National de Lutte contre le
SIDA ")
- Division of Logistics Support for the EPI/Primary Health Care/Essential Drugs programs;
- 8 Regional Health Inspections;
- 33 Prefectoral Health Management Directorates and selected primary care and referral services.
Ministry of Youth, Sports and Civic Education: Division of Socio-Educational Activities and its
decentralized entities.
Ministry of Social Affairs, Promotion of Women 's Status and Childhood Development:
* Division of Promotion of Women's Status and its decentralized entities
* Division of Early Childhood Development and its decentralized entities



Project Appraisal Doocument                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 16
3. Benefits
a.    A better understanding of population dynamics and issues by key people, and improved
ownership programmes: The message to all target groups is that "investments in reproductive health
have multiple payoffs for families, communities and the national economy." Presentation of facts
and economic and demographic projections during advocacy sessions are expected to develop
stronger and more active constituencies for Population and Family Planning programmes. This in
turn will create and maintain the conditions of sustainability and increase national ownership of
fertility regulation and prevention of STI/HIV infection programs. Over time, the endorsement of a
slower population growth by all decision makers at all levels will lessen, in a cost-effective way, the
imbalance between population and economic growth levels.
b.    Safer behavior among the youth cohorts, reduced health risks for women, increased child
survival and development: Within the context of family-life education, safe sexual practices will be
promoted among youth cohorts up to 25 years old. The behavioral change communication program
will also promote planned parenthood in families through the promotion of delayed first pregnancies,
avoidance of births among older women, sufficient birth intervals, and fewer births. Practice of
family planning is known to have a positive effect on mothers as well as on infants and young
children; when the number of high risk pregnancies ("too young, too late, too often and too many") is
reduced, the health status and survival of children under five years old is significantly improved
(18% of the total population in Guinea). Furthermore, targeted behavioral change communication
programs will stimulate the demand for preventive services such as prevention of STI/HIV infection;
family planning; early detection of risks during pregnancy and childbirth, child survival, and early
childhood development. These interventions have been proven to be highly cost-effective in
improving health status by decreasing the three major mortality rates in Guinea (infant, child and
maternal).
c.   Efficient service delivery: Support to the supply side of reproductive and child health will
generate a culture of quality assurance of care and services (QACS) among medical officers and
providers. Quality service will emphasize the importance of addressing clients' needs and the
necessity to monitor client satisfaction. Improved managerial systems and better support for services
will maximize the use of allocated resources. Expansion of coverage of both preventive and curative
services will bring services closer to beneficiaries and thereby increase utilization of the same.
Improved interpersonal communication during clinical encounters between providers and
beneficiaries will generate confidence and trust.
d.   Effective intrasectoral and intersectoral policy dialogue will result from the utilization of
relevant, accurate, reliable and easily accessible data. Such data will reduce uncertainty in decision-
making at all levels, especially during the planning, monitoring and evaluation phases. Data will also
be made available to both public and private sectors for advocacy on population issues and better
management of reproductive health programmes. Finally, a better dissemination of data will result in
better circulation of information and greater transparency of program processes.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation period: Four years, covering the first phase of the three phase program spanning over
a twelve year period. This duration will parallel the Government's long term commitment to
population goals, will allow sustainability to develop and facilitate evaluation of outcomes and impact
after a reasonable period. Subsequent credits will be extended after achievement of agreed upon
performances, in conformity with critical milestones and trigger indicators.



Project Appraisal Doocument                   Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                               Page 17
Executing agency: A Coordination Office in the Ministry of Health ("Bureau de Coordination
Population-Sante") -- also acting as a technical arm for the C.N.P.R.H. (National Population and
Human Resources Committee), would be the project's executing agency. Given its multisectoral
nature, the project would be executed under the coordination and facilitation of a team supervised by a
National Coordinator with qualifications in Reproductive Health and Management of Health Services,
as well as experience in management of Bank-funded projects. The project staff will consist of three
professionals with the required skills in: (a) demography and statistics, to be responsible for the
project monitoring and evaluation system, and support to the C.N.P.R.H.; (b) behavior change
communications, to coordinate the subset of related activities carried out for various target groups;
and (c) community organization and participation, to provide support to the PSF selection committee
and collaborating NGOs. The Coordination team will be supported by MS/DIEM for all procurement
activities (see Annex 6) and by MS/DAAF for accounting and financial management (see below).
Implementation of project activities will fall under the responsibility of relevant line agencies at
central, regional and prefectoral levels of the Ministry of Health; Ministry of Youth-Sports and Civic
Education; Ministry of Social Affairs-Promotion of Women's Status and Childhood Development,
and Ministry of Planning and Cooperation.. Local NGOs will be encouraged and utilized to
implement activities for which they meet qualifications and requirements, or for which they have a
track record for operational excellence. All arrangements, relationships and responsibilities will be
clearly mentioned in the project implementation manual.
Project oversight ( policy guidance etc.):
- A renewed National Committee for Population and Human Resources ("Commission Nationale
pour la Population et les Ressources Humaines" or C.N.P.R.H.) will be the lead institution for
advising on and facilitation of policy dialogue and for follow-up of program implementation.
- The Ministry of Health will have the oversight of the execution of reproductive and child health
programs. Depending on the targeted groups and type of activities, managerial support for services
will be planned and monitored by the following central level bodies: Division of Reproductive Health,
Primary Health Care/EPI/Essential Generic Drugs program ("PEV/SSP/ME") at Ministry of Health
for family planning, safe motherhood and child health activities; Division of Socio-Educational
Activities at Ministry of Youth, Sports and Civic Education for behavioral change activities among
youth cohorts; National Directorate of Statistics and Division of Population and Human resources at
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation for support to the National Commission for Population and
Human resources ("C.N.P.R.H") ; Division of Promotion of Women's Status and Division of
Childhood at Ministry of Social Affairs, and Promotion of Women's Status and Childhood for Early
Childhood Development and Population Support Fund activities.
The project components will mostly be implemented by regional and prefectoral entities of Ministries
involved. The project will strive to avoid delays with the following trigger/"rain or shine" activities:
(a) at the prefectoral level, the annual review of project achievements will take place during the last
quarter of each year and prefectoral annual workplans and budgets for the next fiscal year will be
submitted every year to the regional directorates, no later than November 30th; (b) at the regional
level, the annual review of last year's performances will take place during the first quarter of the
current fiscal year. Regional annual work plans and budgets should be submitted every year to the
National Coordination Office, no later than February 28th; and (c) the review of performances with
IDA staff and other donors will take place every year in May, followed by the planning of project
operations for the next fiscal year. Decision-making patterns within concerned agencies and the flow



Project Appraisal Doocument                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                   Page 18
of resources for implementation will be reviewed during project preparation, with special attention
being paid to accountability requirements.
Accounting and financial arrangements:
The MS/DAAF, which is handling satisfactorily the financial management of the ongoing IDA-
financed project (PSN), will also be responsible, under the authority of the head of the BCPS, for the
project's administrative and financial management and reporting, including making arrangements for
annual certification of project accounts, and following charts of accounts, systems and procedures for
conformity with IDA requirements. The MS/DAAF will be provided with the necessary resources to
strengthen its operational capacity. All project-related expenditures and financing will be done in
accordance with International Accounting Standards. The financial management information system
has been assessed and found satisfactory since it allows the monitoring of expenditures per category,
per sector (or Ministry), per set of activities within each sector, and for each level of implementation
(central, regional, prefectoral). A special account for the IDA credit will be opened and maintained
with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. An independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, will audit the
use of all IDA funds applied in financing the project, including the special account and statement of
expenditures.
Monitoring & Evaluation Activities:
Monitoring will be conducted twice a year, around May and November, through interviews of key
people, review of documents; review of quarterly reports at the prefectoral level, and annual audits at
regional levels. Field visits will also be carried out at randomly sampled locations. Evaluation will
be based on the indicators in Annex 1, as well as on the matrix of actions and monitoring indicators
included in the project implementation manual.
Indicators:
Inputs: (a)Training in Advocacy, Communications for behavior change and production of targeted
messages through various media; (b) standardized supportive supervision and refresher courses for
practitioners; (c) organization of QACS in regions and prefectures; and (c) investments for
equipment, essential drugs, consumable and civil works.
Outputs: reduced number of high risk pregnancies, increased number of deliveries assisted by trained
birth attendants, a reduced fatality rate among emergency obstetrical cases, percentage of family
planning services provided by trained providers, increased number of continuing users of
contraceptives; increased number of partners referred by STI patients; increase of couple - year
protection (CYP) per method and per trained provider; percentage of under five year old children
treated by providers trained in Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI); and
percentage of communities providing Early Childhood Development (ECD) services.
Evaluation of the project: The mid-term evaluation will take place in November 2000, with the
following activities: review of documents; evaluation of execution modalities and technical
assistance; evaluation of capacity building at each level and field visits of random sample of health
facilities and community-based activities. Interviews will also be conducted with staff of local
NGOs and focus groups with members of targeted groups. An incremental approach to execution is
foreseen. At the central level, there will be an annual review of progress towards project objectives
and needed corrective actions will be taken accordingly. The project's critical milestones, triggers



Project Appraisal Doocument                   Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                               Page 19
and performance indicators cited in the project design summary (Annex 1) will be the common
reference for monitoring and evaluation. They will be updated during the annual review of key
performance indicators and operational planning. Satisfactory progress on these indicators will be
the preliminary for appraisal of the subsequent phase.
Outcomes (or Program Impact, by 2010): improved standards of living; increase of GDP per capita
and increased income levels of vulnerable groups; reduction of total fertility rate (TFR) per woman;
increased contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) per type of method; reduction of infant mortality rate
(IMR) and reduction of maternal mortality rate (MMR).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1.1. Strengthening only the Family Planning and STD/HIV/AIDS services: This will mostly address
the supply side of services and, without behavior change to channel latent demand, might lead to
underutilization of services.  Besides, advocacy for awareness of population issues was just
introduced last year, so only a few number of key decision makers and opinion leaders are informed
on, or have sufficient knowledge of relationships between excessive population growth, slower
economic growth, unmet needs of youth population, and lack of equity towards rural women and
their children.
1.2. A project with a stronger support to the demand side: This is needed and should be
simultaneously implemented with providing support to the supply side.  A  recent study
commissioned by the Bank identified problems on the supply side relating to seriously sub-standard
reproductive health services (including family planning), and inadequate funding for supervision at
all three levels of the health system. Without strengthening the managerial sub - component and the
supply side in general, the demand side will expand faster than the capacity to deliver customized
quality reproductive health services nationwide. This in turn would lead to clients' disappointment
with family planning services, discontinuation of use, and, ultimately, failure to achieve related
outputs and outcomes and progress toward the development objectives.
1.3. A Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning (MCH/FP) Project: This would not be
consistent with the endorsement of Cairo ICPD recommendations by the client country and the Bank,
and would exclude the youth cohorts and perpetuate the population momentum. Youth segments of
population still have important unmet needs for reproductive health and family life education, and
attempts to meet such needs are currently being made by LJNFPA and French Cooperation. Under its
current program cycle, UJNFPA will support the extension of school-based information on population
and five youth centers for the informal sector. The French Cooperation is planning to extend its
support to four regional centers, but only after the completion of a pilot test in two youth centers
located in Conakry. These noteworthy efforts are, however, far from responding to all the needs of
two millions adolescents and young adults (10 - 24 years old). A MCH/FP project would also
exclude specific groups at highest risk for STI/AIDS that are currently trying to seek services in the
often unsafe informal private sector.



Project Appraisal Doocument                           Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                     Page 20
1 .4. Separate sectoral projects that are executed respectively by the ministries involved: This
alternative is usually preferred.  However, it will not actively seek to maintain or increase
intersectoral linkages that are necessary to reach the priority target groups. Separate projects dealing
with reproductive health issues will create difficulties of coordination and will also disregard the
need for a carefully sequenced coordination of a project that has at stake individual, societal as well
as mnacro economic interests.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies
(completed, ongoing andplanned):
2.1. Bank-financed:
Completed: Development of Health Services Project: by project closing in June 1996, Middle
Guinea was benefiting from improved primary health care and referral services, norms and standards
for running health care activities, a functioning cost recovery scheme, and, at the community level, a
mechanism to involve the beneficiaries in the management of health facilities. Moreover, the
performance of the Ministry and of the technical programs supported by the project was substantially
improved. Overall, the project outcomes were satisfactory.
Ongoing: Health and Nutrition Project: this project focuses on development of health services in
Middle and Lower Guinea and strengthening of priority programs. The project is currently entering
its second of three planned phases. New performances indicators are to be identified as part of the
retrofitting exercise.
Ongoing: Equity and School Improvement Project: this project aims to expand the gross primary
school enrollment rate, improve student teaching and learning, and strengthen education system
management. Each project component has been designed to address constraints to education of girls.
The project has tripled primary school enrollment of girls during the last six years.
2.2. Other development agencies:
UNFPA- KfW: A new program cycle of five years was started in March 1997. The total level of
funding is $ 5.5 million for a nationwide program that will increase the availability of services and
demand for Reproductive Health services. KfW is cofinancing $ 2.5 million for the procurement of
contraceptives.
KfW - AGBEF - OSFAM / PSI, Inc. : This is a planned project; level of funding will be under
$1 1.0 millions for technical assistance and local costs of Social Marketing and Community Based
Distribution of Services for Reproductive Health.
UNICEF: A nationwide program is planned under the new program cycle for the period of 1997 -
2001. The level of funding is $ 5.1 million and the main priority will be to strengthen activities that
benefit directly or indirectly children under five years old.



Project Appraisal Doocument                    Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                Page 21
USAID: A request for a proposal (RFP) was issued on June 1997 for a Family Planning and Health
Activity (FP/H) and STI/AIDS Prevention. Level of effort will be $ 21.0 million for four years, to
finance technical assistance and activities to be implemented in Upper and Forest Guinea (a total of
12 prefectures).
EEC: is planning to participate in the reorganization of the "Pharmacie Centrale de Guinee ".
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design:
The project's rather complex design, compounded by the sector's poor administrative performance
and structural flaws, has led to delays in implementation. It would have been more appropriate,
considering the situation that prevailed in Guinea in the 1980s, to begin by addressing the sector in
its entirety through adjustment or sector-wide investment operations (with strong capacity-building
components). Under the ongoing bank-funded Health and Nutrition Project, the implementation
capacity of the health sector is being greatly developed. Institutional capacity has greatly improved
and project execution is proceeding as scheduled
While the overall outcome of cost recovery is favorable, the question of whether cost recovery
affects the accessibility of the poor to health services ought to be further addressed. This matter
should receive proper attention in all Bank-funded projects in low-income countries. User fees for
reproductive health services will be assessed by this project and will be set at levels low enough not
to deter the use of quality services, while remaining competitive with vendor fees in the informal
sector.
Low utilization rates are still common features in most in-patient and out-patient health facilities.
This indicates that specific quality control measures and surveys should be carried out regularly to
further improve utilization rates and health service outcomes. A behavior change communication
program will be designedfor segments of population to stimulate demand. Interviews of community
leaders and client satisfaction surveys will be scheduled to monitor the quality of and satisfaction
with services. On the supply side, as Guinea has recently adopted norms and procedures of
Reproductive Health, they will play important role in the continuing education of reproductive
health providers and in providing Quality Assurance programs at the regional level.
The weak family planning outcomes show that strong, high-level political support and a convincing
effort to sensitize the target groups are needed from the start of the project, along with proper
primary health services, to boost the demand for modern contraception. The proposed project will
promote intersectoral policy dialogue and an awareness of population issues through an advocacy
program aimed at decision makers. The project's behavior change program will address each step
of behavior change: facts and accurate information will be provided through small and various
mass media, whereas personalized information on family planning will be provided through home
visits and counseling sessions for individuals, couples or families. Providers will be trained in inter-
personal communication techniques and contraceptive technology, and in the syndromic approach of
STIs and the prevention of transmission of HI V in health facilities.
The project's gender activities were first started at the central level, where countless delays were
encountered. Community based activities, on the other hand, gained a quick momentum and were
well accepted by beneficiaries. This supports the idea of developing - in parallel and from the
beginning, community-based activities, together with more general policy consensus processes.



Project Appraisal Doocument                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                               Page 22
Grants to support women 's groups will be awarded. Demographics by gender will be published and
gender awareness will be further assessed among opinion leaders and decision makers, as well as
among primary beneficiaries. A specific gender policy will be an integral part of the outputs of the
project.
From other development agencies:
While parallel contraceptive logistics were useful to avoid or correct shortages, the Government was
left without a managerial system able to take into account the delays inherent to international
procurement of technical services and contraceptives.  Contraceptive logistics under the
PEV/SSP/ME system were assessed during the preparation phase, and the project has started to
provide technical assistance to strengthen regional and prefectoral support for services. The
prefecture of Mamou will be specially supported to serve as a proximity warehouse and as a training
center for internships in management of essential drugs and contraceptives, and a practicum site for
information system, quality assurance, and supportive supervision.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* The GOG made official population policy statements and approved the Guinea population policy
in May 1992. Recommendations of the International Conference on Population and Development
(ICPD, Cairo 1994) were later included in the policy document, and MCH / FP policy and programs
were revised accordingly. As for implementation of the Population program, it needs to be
reinvigorated, especially the advocacy component that was just started in 1996.
* The GOG confirmed its commitment to the population policy by sending a letter to IDA in
September 1996 that outlined its population policy framework and requested support for a population
and reproductive health project In particular, the letter of intention stated the Government's goal to
increase the contraceptive prevalence rate from less than 5 % in 1992 to 25 % by 2010.
* Project identification and pre-appraisal missions took place as scheduled and benefited from a
wide participation of civil society and Government leadership. A national project preparation
coordinator was appointed, and a technical preparation team and a preparation advisory committee
were formed in February 1997.
* During the National Forum for the Health Sector (1998 - 2010) held in Conakry in May 1997,
Reproductive Health Policy, Program, Norns and Procedures were officially adopted by the
Government.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is providing substantial support to the Government of the Republic of Guinea to help
execute one of its five priorities in the Health Sector, for the period 1998 - 2010. This project will
enable the Government to execute an important part of its population program -- relating to the
youth population and gender -- with high visibility and broad popular support. The Population and
Health Coordination Office (BCPS) will execute its coordination mandate through the "Comite
Inter-minist riel". This high level coordination unit will increase the complementarity and synergy
of funded programs within the sectors involved as well as with the Labor, Environmental and



Project Appraisal Doocument                    Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                 Page 23
Education sectors. In addition, the project will give the Government enough resources to effectively
take the lead in the execution of population and reproductive health programs. For instance,. the
coordination of the execution of Reproductive Health by the Government will maximize the use of
resources and will improve the quality and transparency of program processes.
E: Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic  [] Cost-Benefit Analysis : NPV= N.A. [X]  Cost Effectiveness [] Other
Analysis:            [Specify]
Economic & Fiscal Assessment (see Annex 4):
The economic rationale for public intervention is firmly established not only on the grounds of equity
and poverty alleviation, but also on the basis of numerous externalities and the "public good" nature
of key project activities. The fiscal impact is small and not expected to impose any budgetary burden.
First, budgetary counterpart funds needed are estimated to amount to FGN 4.5 billion (0.8% of public
investment) over the next five years. Second, annual recurrent expenditures arising from project
implementation are projected to average GF 0.5 billion (0.2% of recurrent budget). Though Guinea
has initiated cost recovery at almost all levels of the health system, a more aggressive action in that
regard is perhaps unnecessary before a viable program to protect indigent patients is in place.
Moreover, such an action is likely to put significant stress on the poor and dampen low income
household demand for health care services.
Cost-effectiveness Assessment (see Annex 4):
Numerous studies and analyses have demonstrated that the major causes of premature death in Guinea
(communicable, maternal, and prenatal diseases) are subject to highly cost-effective interventions.
The 1993 WDR (Investing in Health) defined a cost-effective intervention as one where the cost per
DALY (Disability-Adjusted Life Years) saved is below US$250; interventions with cost per DALY
gained below US$100 are classified as highly cost-effective. Analysis of the cost effectiveness of the
interventions financed by the proposed project falls into two broad categories. First, the concept of the
US$ cost per DALY saved is used to compare the cost effectiveness of overall interventions, such as
antenatal care and immunization, with other interventions in the health sector; and second, the
notions of Couple Years of Protection (CYP) and number of births averted are used to analyze the
cost effectiveness of alternative forms of service delivery for a number of reproductive health
interventions. Finally, the set of interventions supported by the project are compafed with
recommendations from cross-country studies such as the 1993 WDR and "Better Health for Africa,
1994". Following a standard practice, project interventions have been grouped into 5 categories, as
shown in Appendix 1 of Annex 4. The last category is of particular importance since it gives the cost
effectiveness indicator for each population activity, reproductive health intervention and institutional
support thereof. The rating range of categories goes from high (H) to low (L) cost effectiveness (CE).



Project Appraisal Doocument                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                Page 24
2. Financial Assessment
(see Annex 5):
The provisional project costs are estimated at US$ 12.0 million, out of which US$ 11.3 million will be
financed by IDA, and the remainder (an equivalent of 6 % of project costs) will be financed by the
Government. Over the next 4 years of project implementation, cumulative investment costs will
amount to US$9.5 million while recurrent costs stand at only US$2.5 million. These represent a very
small fraction of both public investment and public recurrent budgets (see economic analysis).
Community participation, coupled with cost recovery for selected hospital services will provide a
viable short-terrn solution while a more aggressive expenditure reallocation policy can be
Implemented. Financial sustainability will be sought from the widespread community support for the
absolute poor. In addition, there is a significant development of various traditional risk pooling
mechanisms in the community, which augurs well for the financially sustainable set of population and
reproductive health activities financed by the project.
3. Technical Assessment:
Technical aspects of the three phased Population and Reproductive Health Program have been
assessed by the Bank, with assistance from UNFPA, WHO, UNICEF and USAID. The aim is to
render effective the implementation of programs derived from sound population and reproductive
health policies. The proposed project will support expansion and strengthening of affordable
(subsidized) cost effective interventions on both demand and supply sides of service delivery. The
three phased program is also strengthening related critical administrative and support services:
coordination of implementation for various target groups; joint annual review of project
perfornances; improved support for children's immunization program, contraceptives and essential
drugs; and standardized supportive supervision and training of personnel. Primary beneficiaries are
vulnerable groups, including the youth cohorts whose needs have yet to be addressed. The proposed
program appropriately focuses on improving awareness of reproductive health issues among key
decision makers; and on reaching out to targeted groups, families and individuals through various
media, without neglecting counseling activities (this is the last and critical customized step towards
the practice of safer behavior). Collaboration with community-based providers and independent
licensed distributors will provide opportunities to expand supervised services and establish quality
assurance in the private sector. Upgrading the skills of practitioners assigned in public facilities,
along with the establishment of better working conditions and environment, will have multiple
advantages. Some of the foreseen advantages are: setting the requisites for improvements of service
rendered; restoring the morale and motivation of providers; and renewing the confidence of clients in
public service delivery. Although the program is designed on a national scale for both urban and rural
areas of Guinea, its first phase would, however, target geographical areas or groups where baseline
data suggest either potential expansion of health hazard, or readiness for utilization of services. Such
is the case of groups at highest risk, densely populated rural and urban areas, culturally diverse
neighborhoods, and urban areas where members of targeted groups are more aware of the financial
costs of having and raising children and would seek the means to postpone pregnancies until they are
ready for responsible parenthood.



Project Appraisal Doocument                     Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 25
4. Institutional Assessment:
a. Executing agencies:
Lack of resources, reduced resources, or delayed allocation of scarce resources were identified as
main impediments faced by Ministries in the execution of programs through their respective line
agencies. Otherwise, institutions to be involved in this program have demonstrated a relative capacity
to reduce women's health risks through prenatal care, and contribute to the reduction of infant
mortality.
,Capacity for monitoring, supervision and Quality Assurance of Reproductive Health, especially
family planning, needs to be enhanced at early stages of the first phase, because data collected
through these activities would be instrumental in refining national annual operational plans and
subsequent coordination of funds by the Government.
b. Project management:
Through the decentralized services of the Ministry of Health, and decentralized committees of the
C.N.P.R.H., the Population-Health Coordination Office (PHCO) will ensure vertical and horizontal
coordination of activities that will be carried out by executing line agencies of ministries involved. As
the "DIEM" at the Ministry of Health has experience in implementing procurement in accordance
with Bank guidelines, this directorate will oversee all procurement-related actions for the three phases
of the program. The PHCO will be staffed by a team of experienced specialists recruited for positions
that have specific job descriptions. Its personnel would be in place to provide the necessary support
in strengthening and assisting in the coordination of funded activities. They would not have to
perform tasks other than the ones related to the program.
5. Social Assessment:
* In view of the extent of the HIV epidemic. in neighboring countries and intense migration
movements of Guineans, awareness of STI/AV infection needs to be improved and reinforced.
While fertility patterns and regulation in West Africa are still strongly influenced by gender biases, a
gender agenda is fairly new in Guinea. To balance population growth with poverty alleviation
programs and to decrease sexually-related epidemics, the gender situation would need to be carefully
and objectively assessed. As a first step, data from the DHS 1992 and from the 1996 General Census
would need to be analyzed with a special attention' on gender biases. Gender issues would then be
among the first topics of an intersectoral policy dialogue.
* Female genital mutilation is widely practiced for traditional and non-religious reasons. In an
attempt to reduce suffering and infections, some medical staff have started to perform female genital
mutilation for younger age groups in urban areas. Such providers therefore have vested interests in
this cultural practice. However, the coalition of indigenous NGOs and political action committee (the
"CPTAFE") have publicly expressed their intent to gradually limit the harnful practice in every
possible way. Guinean and West African authorities on Reproductive Health would need to be
encouraged to take a stand on the issue.
* Low income groups of rural and urban communities are seeking the services of unlicensed vendors
and providers because the costs of services offered in public facilities are now beyond their means.
Population Support Funds will assist NGOs involved in grassroots programs that are directly related
to reproductive health activities.



Project Appraisal Doocument                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 26
6. Environmental Assessment:  Environmental  A            []     B      []    C  [x]
Category
This project would be a category C project, without any direct negative impact on the environment.
The project is expected to have important long-term positive environmental effects due to the
anticipated reduced fertility resulting from reproductive health services targeted at the youth
population, and at older age groups in their fertile years.
7. Participatory Approach:
Consensus building and a thorough consultation of primary beneficiaries characterize the approach to
project identification and preparation. Such a participatory approach has so far successfully ensured
that the proposed project reflects most of the concerns of partners and that it is understood as a
priority by all involved. Regarding project identification, national experts and civil service managers
have reviewed the problems, identified the project's objectives and components and outlined the
project's logical framework. Regarding project preparation, AGBEF and the national technical
preparation team has facilitated 21 consultative workshops for representatives of primary
beneficiaries, civil service managers, and opinion leaders, and a total of approximately 600 persons
made recommendations on this population and reproductive health project.
Identification/            Implementation               Operation
___________ 1      Preparation
Beneficiaries/ Primary and secondary  "Communautes rurales et urbaines   Identification of
community   beneficiaries           decentralisees"                  poorest and most
groups                                                               vulnerable groups
Intermediary   COFEG (is)           Coordination bodies: COFEG, Forum  Systematic
NGOs         AGBEF (col)            des ONG (col) and                exploration of
SIDALERTE-Guinee    AGBEF (col)                        possibilities to
..T)r A rr (,1                   collaborate with
Fraternite ilvieci,avlztW1
ASFEGMASSI (col)
SIDALERTE -Guinee(col)
Academic     Department of          School and University based Health  Field visits,
institutions    Sociology, University of Services                    practicum
Guinea (is)                                            internships at
project sites
Local        Regional consultative   "Governorat" (col) oversight on
government   workshops on           decentralized implementation of
Population and        public services
Reproductive Health
issues
Other donors  UNFPA (is)            Coordination of funding at central    Coordination of
UNICEF (is)          level;                            implementation
WHO (is)             technical coordination committees of
EEC (is) GTZ (is),   regions and prefectures
USAID (is)
_ IDA (is)



Project Appraisal Doocument                     Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 27
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
a) building technical sustainability of the national reproductive health program in Guinea is the main
concern and thrust of the project. The sustainability will be ensured through regional health offices,
in the forn of decentralized staff training and development. Initial in-service training on reproductive
and child health will be reinforced through regular standardized supportive supervisory training and
the practice of quality improvement on the premises of service delivery. Medical officers and
providers will be kept abreast of new developments in reproductive and child health during the
scheduled meetings of technical committees.
b) institutional sustainability: the project (first phase of the program) is prepared to provide the
necessary means to facilitate activities and operations of the permanent secretary of C.N.P.R.H., of
regional health offices and to ensure the timely completion of recurrent administrative tasks at
decentralized levels of the health system. Further institutional sustainability will be promoted by the
benefits derived from common managerial arrangements at regional level, including the effective
coordination of resources and activities. This will be facilitated by the triggers described in the
attachment of Annex 1.
c) during this first phase of the program, and given the externalities and the public good nature of the
project, condoms and drugs to treat STIs, as well as contraceptives will be subsidized by IDA and
other donors active in Reproductive Health in Guinea. Moreover, financial sustainability has already
been addressed on a national scale in Guinea. At the service delivery level, under the Bamako
Initiative model, more than two thirds of health centers have adopted cost recovery schemes whereby
fees cover a visit and provision of prescribed drugs for either an ailment or an episode of a chronic
condition or a risk prevention. More than half (53%) of hospitals in Guinea have a cost recovery rate
of non wage expenditures of 50% or more (DNES, 1995). Nevertheless, operations research will be
conducted to test and adapt funding mechanisms for critical activities such as supportive supervision
of providers.



Project Appraisal Doocument                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                Page 28
2. Critical Risks
Risk               Risk                Risk Minimization Measure
R'ating
Harmful traditional practices and  S   Regular follow-up of support by authoritative
activism of fundamentalist             information sources, and lobbyists that will be trained
minorities.                            on efficient communication and advocacy for
population momentum and gender approach. NGOs,
namely Guinean Women in Legal Professions and
CPTAFE, will be involved in the project's activities to
fight female genital mutilations. Grants are awarded
to planned activities such as "reconversion of
exciseuses" and "vacances sans excision".
Weak capacity of C.N.P.R.H. to         Managerial capacity of the CN.P.R.H.'s Executive
execute its mandate of                 Secretary will be strengthened by the Project
coordinating population                Population and Health Coordination Office, acting as
programs.                              its technical arm  for population and RH policy
dialogue.
Weakness  of institutions  in   M      Improvement of common managerial processes for
managing   and   coordinating          RCH  programs, through  a  differentiated  and
Reproductive and Child Health          sequential implementation (confer to related sub-
programs.                              components described in Annex 2).
Actual costs of family planning  S     Subsidization of costs of reproductive health services,
could  be  a  deterrent  to            including family planning and child health, will be
utilization. Youth and persons at      resumed by IDA and other donors.
highest risk of STIs and HIV
cannot    access     needed            Special referral services for youth and STI/HIVclinics
reproductive health services.          for - persons at highest risks will also be made
accessible and affordable.
Legal barriers are not effectively  M  Follow-up of April 1998' s Parliamentary sessions,
lifted    before     project           follow-up on subsequent Government Action Plan.
effectiveness.
Overall project risk rating  'Risk             Risk minimization measures
Failure to significantly reduce    M   Obtain continuing support from the prominent
hannful traditional practices and      members of the C.N.P.R.H. Promote broad public
to  outweigh  fundamentalist           information and broad-based support: involvement of
activism.                              the communities and parliamentarians, wide
dissemination of project's achievements and results,
popular contests on production of audio visual
materials and regular roundtable on population and
reproductive health issues.
Risk Rating: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Doocument                    Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                Page 29
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
- Contraceptive services for sexually active adolescents and unmarried girls:
The provision, at an early age, of accurate information on body transformations and functions might
raise resistance from older, often more conservative, generations. The focus will be primarily on self-
identified sexually-active girls and boys, and the aim will be to ensure orientation and referrals for
clinical contraceptive and HIV/AIDS prevention services. However, trained youth educators and
peers counselors will provide to youth cohorts information on safer behavior and counseling on
positive health practices such as consistent use of condoms and other non medical barrier methods.
- Non reversible female surgical contraception (tubal ligation):
For health reasons, this is generally accepted by both clients and providers of family planning,
whereas, male surgical contraception (vasectomy) is generally rejected by the same groups , even
though it grants the control of fertility of the couple under the responsibility of men. Furthermore,
surgical contraception by choice, rather than to prevent severe complications of existing conditions, is
not well perceived by health practitioners. It is therefore essential to train all providers to first
respond to the choice of family planning clients with unbiased counseling, by -explaining the
advantages and inconvenience of any method. If a choice for voluntary surgical method is confirmed
after counseling at primary and referral levels, the signing of informed consent clients will document
the choice of a surgical method, and will later protect providers from eventual complaints.
- Family Planning, female genital mutilation and other sexually related information provided to
general public at prime time:
It should be provided to the general public at prime time through mass media. Steps for better
acceptability would be: to include the issue into the audience research that precedes the planning of
the behavior change sub-programs; to preserve the accuracy of information and messages while
using culturally appropriate terms; to obtain support at the highest level; and to ensure regular
monitoring through focus group discussion with members of targeted groups, through discussion
articles in rural radios and newspapers, and through round tables which focus on the issue on the
radio and on television.
G: Main Loan Conditions
As conditions of Negotiations, the Government transmitted to IDA the following documents:
(1) A signed Letter of Development Strategy stating (i) the objectives of the phased program; (ii) the
main thrusts of the Population and Reproductive Health project and strategy and (iii) a matrix of
monitoring indicators and trigger indicators for the program;
(2) A ministerial "Arr8te" on the Population and Health Coordination Office that defines its
mandate, roles and functions, its position in the organizational chart and the list and qualifications of
key staff;
(3) The Project Implementation Manual (including an implementation plan and the model of the
bidding document to be used for national competitive bidding for goods and civil works);
(4) The procurement plan for IDA-financed activities for 1999-2001.



Project Appraisal Doocument                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                   Page 30
As conditions of Board presentation, the Government transmitted to IDA documents which ensured
that:
(1) The key staff of the Population and Health Coordination Office, as well as the additional staff for
DIEM and DAAF are selected according to procedures acceptable to the Bank;
(2) The project accounting system is in place and operates according to standards acceptable to the
Bank;
(3) Members of the PSF selection committee are nominated and the implementation manual of the
;PSF is approved.
As conditions to credit effectiveness
(1) Counterpart funds covering the first year of the project that is equivalent to eighty thousand U.S.
dollars (US$ 80,000) is deposited in the account set up for this purpose;
(2) An independent auditor is recruited.
Other conditions during project implementation
(1) Before December 31, 1999, civil servants with qualifications acceptable to IDA will be assigned
to the Permanent secretary of the C.N.P.R.H.;
(2) Before December 31, 1999, members of technical committees of QACS of Reproductive and
Child Health will be nominated at regional and prefectoral levels;
(3) Before December 31, 1999, the exhaustive assessment of service providers' competencies, skills
and training needs pertaining to Reproductive and Child Health will be completed and entered in a
functional database;
(4) Before June, 2000, the regional refresher training on Reproductive Health will be updated and
transmitted to the Division of Reproductive Health for eacg health region;
(5) Before June 30, 2000, a workplan will be prepared, for each of the four natural region, stemming
from the following objectives (i) inform women and girls on the health effects of female genital
mutilations, their impact on maternal morbidity and mortality, and (ii) define the conditions of
enforcement of the law prohibiting female genital mutilation, and eventually present necessary
amendments;
(6) Before June 30, 2001, a comprehensive plan to solve current problems of the pharmaceutical sub-
sector will be finalized. The plan will address the pricing policy, particularly the subsidizing of
modern contraceptives so price will not be a deterrent to consistent utilization.



Project Appraisal Doocument                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                      Page 31
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ x ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[ x ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader
Slaheddine Ben-Halima
Sector Manager              :/_ __ _2_*__
N,cholas R. Bumett
Country Manager
Nlamadou Dia



Project Appraisal Report                              Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                            Annex 1: Page I of 15
PROGRAM SUMMARY
Narrative Summary           Key Performance          Monitoring and         Critical
Indicatorsl            Supervision        Assumptions
_  and Risks
Sector-related CAS Objective
Poverty reduction           -Growth rate of GDP per                         -(CAS Objective
capita: 1996  = 1.2%                           to Bank Mission)
-Impact (2010) = > 5%                          -Openness of the
-Improved health status                        economy
reports
Program Development           End-of-Program            Monitoring           Critical
Objectives             Indicators (by 2010)      and supervision     assumptions
(i) Slower population growth.  -Population growth rate:  Data sources:     Annual average
1997 = 2.8 %               monitoring and      of GDP growth
-Impact (by 2010) = 2 %    supervision reports;  will go from 4.5%
-Total Fertility Rate (TFR) reports on annual    in 1996 to 5.8%,
1992 = 5.7;                review of           between 1997 to
-Impact (by 2010) - 4.2    performnances.      2010.
- Infant Mortality Rate
1992 = 136,3 %0
Impact (by 2010) = under
100 %0
(ii)  Improved reproductive  - Maternal Mortality Rate:   M  &  S Activities:
and child health services.  1994 = 666; by 2010 = 350  regular reporting to
per 100 000 live births    Government
decision makers and
Bank officers; field
_______________________________ _ ___  visits
Program Outcomes            Key performance             Means of         Assumptions
Indicators             verification
(i) Behavior change that    - Reduced number of high  -Service statistics;  Trained
reduce infant, child and    risk pregnancies           -Intercept interviews;  advocates and
maternal mortalities        - Contraceptive Prevalence  -Focus groups;      communicators
Rate (CPR), condoms and  -Public expenditure    are active
spermicides not included by  review
2010= over 25%
(ii) Increased utilization of    -HIV/AIDS prevalence  -Community surveys  Comrm-unity
priority quality. services  stabilized under 5% by    -Censuses and DHS    involvement
2010
-CYP per modern method
per trained provider
-Improved flow of funds
f and allocation of resources
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full
impact



Project Appraisal Report                                 Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                Annex 1: Page 2 of 15
(iii) Increased management                                                      Regular
capabilities                                                                    monitoring of
beneficiaries'
reactions.
Program Inputs:         Costs per Sub-component  Means of                   I Critical
US $ M             verification            assumptions
Phase I (Oct. 99 - Dec. 02)             12.0             (see  project design  Availability of
Launching  of fundamentals                               below)                 essential drugs
and initiation of top priority                                                  and
activities                                                                      contraceptives
Phase II (Jan 03 - Dec. 06)                                                     Enduring
Strengthening and expanding              16.0                                   community
involvement in
Safe Motherhood,
Child Health and
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____   _______Developm ent
Phase III (Jan 07 - Dec. 10)            16.0
Ensuring continuity and
sustainability



Project Appraisal Document                       Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                     Annex 1: Page 3 of 15
Project Design Summary
Project            End-of Phase I       Monitoring and Supervision      Critical
Development             Indicators                                    Assumptions and
Objectives (Phase I)                                                          Risks
Development
Objectives to CAS
Objective
(1) Awareness of    (1) Percent of women in    (1) Intercept interviews;  (1) - Fundamentalist
population issues    union who are able to quote  Focus groups of members of  activism,
and safer behavior   at least one modem family  targeted groups; Community  particularly against
by at least 50% of   planning method:        surveys on random samples   reproductive choice
targeted groups                              of targeted groups.        and modem family
1992 = 27,2%; 1997 = 35%                            planning, will be
2001 = 45%; 2003 = more                              mitigated.
than 50%
(2) Quality, access  (2) - a. Reduction of Infant  (2) - a. Censuses and DHS
and expanded       mortality rate (IMR)
coverage (towards   1992 =136.3; 2001 = 110;
utilization) of    2003 = 100 per 1000
priority
reproductive and
child health services
(2) - b. Reduction of high   (2) - b. Service statistics of   (2) - b,c,d
risk births ( under 18 yrs    primary and referral facilities Availability of
old, over 34 yrs old; birth    and DHS               affordable
interval under 36 months;                            reproductive
4th birth and higher rank:                          services for
adolescents and
1992=61%; 1997=55%                                  young adults (10 -
2001 = 40%; 2003 = 30%                               24 years old), for
persons at highest
risk of STI/HIV.
(2) - c. Increase of     (2) - c. Service statistics of
Contraceptive Prevalence    primary care facilities and
Rate (CPR), excluding     Social Marketing sales;
barrier methods 1997= 5%; Community-based
Information Systems; DHS
2001 = 8 %; 2003 = 10 %



Project Appraisal Document                        Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                        Annex 1: Page 4 of 15
(2) - d. Stabilized       (2) - d. National and regional
HIV/AIDS prevalence       HIV screening laboratories;
among adults (>1 Syrs old):  service statistics of model
1994 = 53.7; 1997 = 100;   clinics and hospitals
2001 = 150; 2003 = 200
per 10,000 adults
(3) improvement of  (3) - a. Timely submission  (3) - a. Documents of     (3) C.N.P.R.H.
institutional capacity  of annual operation plans  prefectoral annual operation   will have the
to manage and       by all prefectures         plans; interviews of staff  managerial
coordinate                                                                capacity to
Population and      (3) - b. Improved flow of    (3) - b. Reports of annual  coordinate regular
Reproductive Health  funds and allocation of  coordination meetings;      policy dialogue at
Programs.           resources, according to   Implementation reports of    central level. The
decisions made at annual    sectors involved; interviews   Population and
coordination meetings.    of staff                    health Coordination
Office will
facilitate
intersectoral
collaboration at
implementation
level.
End-of Phase I       Indicators of results      Means of verification        Critical
Results/Outputs                                                             assumptions
1.1.Increased       1.1.   Percent of young  1.1. Intercept interviews;    (Outputs to
proportions of      adults (15-24 years old) focus groups of members of   objectives)
targeted groups that  who know where to seek  targeted groups;
endorse, safe       treatment for STIs: 1992 =  community surveys on
behavior for        27.1%                     random samples of targeted
reproductive health   1997 = 35%; 2001 = 45%    groups
2003 = > 50%
1.2. Practice of safer  1.2. Percent of men who  1.2. Intercept interviews;  1.2.   Counseling
behavior for        have  used  one  condom  ability to demonstrate the   services  will  be
reproductive health   during the previous week:   correct use of a condom;  available
among: (i)          1992 = less than I%       focus groups of members of
adolescents and     1997 = 4.5%; 2001 = 9%    targeted groups; community
Young adults (10 -   2003 = 12%               surveys on random samples
24 Yrs old) (ii)                              of targeted groups
Men and women of
reproductive age
1.3. Grants support   1.3. Forty percent (40%)  1.3. Grantees' proposals and  1.3. Grants will be
gender equity,      of grants use funds to  annual workplans;             awarded by the
reproductive and    support   and    expand  grantees' implementation     Selection
child health goals    community based initiatives reports; project execution  Committee
and their promotion  in reproductive and health  and implementation reports;  according to
services,  including  safe                            targeted activities.
motherhood initiatives.



Project Appraisal Document                         Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                        Annex 1: Page 5 of 15
2.1. Efficient      2.1. Over the project      2.1. Quarterly reports of    2.1. Regulatory and
support services for  duration, 75% of         regional offices; training   administrative
Reproductive and    reproductive and child      modules; standardized       arrangements to
Child Health        health practitioners in     supervision reports;        permit
programs.           priority areas, will provide   observation of practitioners;   decentralized
care and services according  adequate utilization of desk    decision making
to the norms, procedures    references for care and    will be issued.
and guidelines.            services; participation in  Implementation of
Quality Improvement Teams  support to services
is differentiated
according to
regional needs and
will be sequential
within each region.
Monitoring and
evaluation system
permits to follow-
up implementation
and assessment of
achievements in
regions and
prefectures.
- Family planning    2.2. - a. By 2003, increase   2.2. Service statistics and  2.2. Affordable
services;           by 30% of the continuation  tracer surveys of users;    (subsidized)
rate of contraceptive      community survey, in-depth  reproductive and
practice among targeted   interviews of providers and    child health care
groups                     beneficiaries, focus groups    and services will be
made available
over the project
duration.
- HIV/AIDS          2.2. - b. Number of patients
prevention services   treated for STIs that are
and                 seen at return visits
- STI prevention
and treatment
services.
2.3. Increased client  2.3. - a. Increased number   2.3. - a. Routine service
satisfaction and    of births attended by      statistics at community,
increased number of  trained providers:        primary care and referral
users of:           1992 = 35.8%                levels; hospital admission
1997 = 40%; 2001 = 50%    and obstetrical records
2003 = 60%



Project Appraisal Document                        Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                        Annex 1: Page 6 of 15
- Obstetrical       2.3. - b. Over the project 2.3. - b. Observation of
services            duration, at least 70%  of clinical encounters; walk-out
(Safe motherhood);  respondents from  targeted  interviews; referral records;
- Clinical child    groups are satisfied with  in-depth interviews of
services           the   quality  of  IMCI mothers and care givers
(Child Health)     services:
1998 = <10 %; 2001 = 45
2003 = 70%
2.4. Decreased      2.4.  -  a.  By   2001, 2.4. - a. Policy and strategy    2.4. a - Modalities
number of practices  Government will have put document                    of enactment or
that are harmful to   in place a policy framework                         enforcement of law
women' s            and strategy to eradicate                             prohibiting female
reproductive tract    female genital mutilation                           genital mutilations
and health                                                                will be re-assessed
to include activities
such as "la
reconversion des
exciseuses" and
"vacances sans
excision".
2.4. - b. By 2005, decree  2.4.- b. Publication of decree
forbidding FGM will be
enacted.
3.1. C.N.P.R.H. will 3.1. By 2003, reforms of 3.1. Information packages    3.1 Weak
have the authority    population policy will be and reports of the three  managerial
and means to follow   approved                policy dialogue workshops;   capacity of
and coordinate the                            follow-up of                Executive
implementation of                             recommendations             Secretary of
population policy                                                         C.N.P.R.H. will be
Publication of revised policy  overcome.
at the end of the phased
program
3.2. The Population  3.2. Annual decentralized  3.2. Minutes of meetings,    3.2. The DCA
and Health          reviews    of    project program implementation and  provides clauses to
Coordination Office  performances conducted as supervision reports; available  ensure that the
will facilitate the  scheduled;        annual AOPs                        PHCO will be at all
oversight on and    operations plans submitted                            times staffed with
coordination of     as scheduled                                          professionals with
executing agencies                                                        qualifications and
by the Ministry of                                                        experience
Health                                                                    acceptable to IDA.



Project Appraisal Document                         Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                        Annex 1: Page 7 of 15
Major inputs by project   Costs per Sub-        Means of verification           Critical
component             component                                         assumptions
m US $
[See Annex 2 for a detailed                                                  (component to
description.]                                                                outputs)
1. 1. - Increased awareness   0.9 m US $    1.1. - a. Database of trained    The Population
of population issues:                       advocates and activity reports;  and Health
training,                                   calendar of sessions and activity    Coordination
production of messages for                  reports; follow-up of broadcast    Office (PHCO) is
small and mass media,                       calendar; recollection of messages  staffed, equipped
sessions by trained                         by targeted groups               and functional.
advocates and
communicators                                                                Dissemination of
main features of
Population policy
and related
decrees among
high ranking
officials.
1.2. - Strengthened         1.6 m US $      1.2. - a. Participants' lists for  1.2. Training of
promotion of positive and                   training and activity reports of  communicators,
safer behavior: training of                 communicators, regional and      promoters and
youth peer leaders and                      prefectoral databases of         providerswill
providers, refurbishing and                 promoters, providers and         commence when
equipment of centres d'                     distributors, service statistics at    managerial
ecoute for youth, schools                   primary care and referral        support and
and University-based health                 facilities.                      material are
services                                                                     readily available.
1.3. - Improved equity and   1.1 m US $     1.3. Reports of selection        1.3. Guidelines
access to reproductive health               committee; activity reports of   and procedures of
services for vulnerable                     funded NGOs                      fund management
groups: financing of                                                         have been agreed
grassroots activities and                                                    upon.
local initiatives;
strengthening of managerial
capabilities of collaborating
NGOs



Project Appraisal Document                           Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                           Annex 1: Page 8 of 15
2.1. - Improved             2.1 m US $    2.1. Manual of procedures;          2.1. Involvement
management of support                      orders and delivery logs at primary  of decentralized
services for Reproductive                  care and referral facilities; training   health authorities
Health: support                            records and functional databases of  since the design
decentralized management,                  personnel; regional and prefectoral  phase.
standardized supportive                    reports of physical inventories;   -Fully functional
supervision, quality                       reports of annual review meetings;  regional
assurance of care and                      reports of supportive supervision;   warehouses in
services, construction,                    review of random samples of        Conakry and
equipment, buffer stocks of                records and annual operational     Mamou
essential drugs and                        plans.                             -Inventories at
contraceptives, technical                                                     central level have
assistance for improvement                                                    been compared
of logistics, for training of                                                 with functional
trainers                                                                      inventories at
decentralized
implementation
levels.
-Technical
assistance has been
requested and
provided on time.
-Trained
supervisors are
assigned to and
maintained in
positions where
they can apply
acquired skills
2.2. - Improved quality of   2.1 m US $    2.2. Prefectoral and regional      2.2. All providers
and access to family                       reports on services.               are aware that
planning, STD/AIDS                         Annual operational plans; service    Government has
services: construction and                 statistics of University and school   lifted legal barriers
equipment of family                        based health centers.             to sale and
planning clinics, of selected              Referral cards of promoters and    advertisement of
STI prevention and                         distributors; services statistics.  contraceptives
treatment and HIV/AIDS                     Review of random samples of        -Timely completion
prevention clinics;                        individual records of users;       of civil works
consumable for prevention                  community survey.                  -Quality of care
of transmission, supervision               Community survey; intercept        started at delivery
from prefectures and                       interviews.                        sites; standardized
regions, quality                                                              supportive
improvement activities at                                                     supervision is
service delivery sites                                                        conducted to refine
the assessment of
training and
supervision needs



Project Appraisal Document                        Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                       Annex 1: Page9of 15
-Management of
contraceptives and
essential drugs is
functional from
warehouse to
service delivery
site.
-Providers
understand and use
data for micro
planning and
programmatic
purposes
2.3. - Improved quality and  1.6 m US $    2.3. Maternity admission record;    2.3. Involvement of
utilization of Safe                      referral cards.                  communities in the
Motherhood and Child                     Community survey with review of  construction and
health services: civil works,            individual records of children   daily operations of
emergency obstetrical kit                under five years old; activity   maternity waiting
and communication devices,               reports.                         shelters.
consumable, equipment and                Referral cards; service statistics.
furniture for maternity and
obstetrical operating rooms
and related facilities,
supervision, micro planning
of community-based
activities, support for
"Comites d'Hygiene
Hospitaliere" and maternity
quality assurance activities.
3.1. Provision of support to  0.9 m US $    Specimen of wall charts, booklets   Technical
CNPRH for the coordination               and brochures in regions and     assistance is
of population policy; support            prefectures                      requested and
for dissemination of DHS                                                  provided on time.
1998                                     Final reports of DHS 1998
Project annual implementation
reports
3.2. Population and health
Coordination Office



Project Appraisal Report                           Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                        Annex 1:Page 1O of 15
Attachment 1 to Annex I
A. TRIGGER INDICATORS UNDER THE ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN (APL)
It is envisaged to implement the Population and Reproductive Health in urban and rural areas of Guinea
in three phases. All phases will have the same development objectives. The first phase consists of
launching fundamental regulatory and institutional frameworks, along with activities in priority domains,
geographical areas and target groups. Building upon the accomplishments and successes of the first
phase, the next and second phase would expand the coverage for reproductive and child health, and
consolidate the quality of care and services, while simultaneously implementing operations research on
financing mechanisms. The third and last phase would use the lessons of experience from previous
phases to further strengthen sustainability and set the stage for the continuity of affordable quality
reproductive and child health services.
The project described in this PAD refers to the first phase of the program as described in the logical
framework matrix in Annex 1. Each new phase would be submitted to an appraisal process aimed at
evaluating the technical, economic, social and environmental feasibility, as well as incorporating
experience gained during the implementation of the program. Trigger indicators will be assessed and
measured as part of the monitoring and evaluation system in place and presented in evaluation reports
prepared by each regional health inspection. During phase I, trigger indicators will follow the progress in
capacity building and institutional strengthening so they will be more process-oriented. As the program
advances, the emphasis will shift toward more quantitative trigger indicators.



Project Appraisal Document                         Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                       Annex 1: Page 11 of 15
Trigger indicators for Phase II (to be assessed by April 2002, as pre-requisites to appraisal)
Assessing institutional        Trigger indicators                Means of verification
framework and
managerial capacity
a) Involvement of       setting regional committees for    Regulatory texts issued; reports of
population in program   population and human resources,    meetings of regional commissions.
implementation at local   with mandate and balanced
level..                 representation of institutions, NGOs
and private sector and beneficiaries.
The C.N.P.R.H.'s Executive         Administrative    decision    and
Secretary is operational and staffed.  curriculum vitae of staff.
Modalities of enforcement of law   Action Plan available.
prohibiting female genital
mutilations will be adapted and
finalized.
Progress achieved in lifting legal  Legal/regulatory texts issued..
barriers to sale and advertisement of
contraceptives.
b)    Management  of  1) Regulatory and administrative     Regulatory texts issued;
quality care and services arrangements are set to pernit   administrative arrangements
for  reproductive  and  decentralized decision making for    communicated through relevant line
child health.           personnel management, quality      agencies.
assurance of care and services and
maintenance of assets, this includes:
- members of QACS are nominated  administrative text on nominations.
for all regions and prefectures;
- data on exhaustive evaluation of   demonstration  of databases  and
competencies, skills, potentials and   reports, training plans
needs are entered in databases
maintained at regional level, and for
each health region, the regional
refresher training on Reproductive
Health will be updated and
transmitted to the Division of
Reproductive Health
- supervision techniques and       supervision and QACs reports.
protocols are standardized to allow
comparisons within and across
regions. Monitoring of QACS are
issued.
2) a comprehensive plan to solve   Action Plan discussed and issued..
current problems of the
pharmaceutical sub-sector will be
finalized. The plan will address the
pricing policy, particularly the
subsidizing of modem



Project Appraisal Report                               Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                             Annex 1: Page 12 of 15
contraceptives so prices will not be a
deterrent to consistent utilization.
c) Local accountability  -Annual  operational  plans  are  c) Regional and prefectoral activity
for technical results in  submitted and implemented on time.  reports.
population, reproductive
and child health.
-Monitoring and evaluation system
permits to follow-up implementation
and assessment of achievements in
regions and prefectures.
Indicative Triggers for Phase III (to be assessed by April 2006 as pre-requisite to appraisal)
Project components              Indicative triggers                Means of verification
a) Operations research    Dissemination of results and scaling  Research protocols;
to test, adjust and     up of chosen activities are included  budget summaries
expand sustainable      in annual operational plans
funding and financial
managemen
b) Expanding the        Areas    for    expansion       of Regional and  prefectoral activity
decentralized           decentralization processes, and for reports
management of RCH for  introduction  or  strengthening  of
quality care and services  QACS are identified soon after the
mid-term review of the second phase
c) Continuity of local    Annual  operational  plans   are  Regional and  prefectoral activity
accountability for      submitted in a timely manner and  reports
technical results in    implemented
population, reproductive
and child health.
Monitoring and evaluation system
permits to follow-up implementation
and assessment of achievements in
regions and prefectures.
d) Continuity of local    Operational participation committees Community rapid assessment with
participation in RCH    meet as scheduled                   forms designed in collaboration with
activities, including                                       communities
Early Childhood
Development (for
children born during
Phases I and II)
ECD services are provided by
communities.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                   Annex 1: Page 13 of 15
Attachment 2 to Annex I
B. THE THREE PHASES OF THE PROGRAM
Narrative summary
COMPONENT 1: POPULATION
Improve awareness of population issues and promote adequate / safer reproductive health
practices
Phase I (the project)              Phase II:                     Phase III:
Oct. 98-Dec. 2002           Jan. 2003-Dec. 2006           Jan. 2007-Dec. 2010
Initiation, setting frameworks  Strengthening and expanding   Ensuring continuity and
sustainability
Potential advocates are identified This  second  phase  or  the Communicators   and    peer
and trained. Advocacy sessions Population   component  will counselors are active. Phase of
geared  towards officials and  expand   the   number   of ownership  for the  advocacy
decision makers are carried out. individuals and groups involved program   by  opinion/cultural
A   first  consensus  building  in  advocacy and promotion of leaders. Active lobbyists for the
through  intersectoral  policy  safer behavior, and will deepen  ban of F.G.M. Population and
dialogue     is     reached. their knowledge of issues and development      data     are
Collaborating    NGOs    and  behavioral        techniques. desaggregated by gender, on a
communities identified by the Advocacy  sessions  will  be routine  basis, and  regularly
selection   committee  receive continued  at  regional  and reported to decision makers at all
support funds. Design, test and prefecture levels.   A  second  levels.
production of messages on small intersectoral policy dialogue will
media  and  mass media  are review    achievements   and Volunteers and distributors in
started.  Communicators  are pending   issues.      Youth  communities are able to redesign
trained  to  inform   various organizations, youth centers and as   needed,   with  limited
audiences    through    their youth gathering places will be assistance, behavioral change
respective   opinion   leaders. rehabilitated or renovated and communication  activities  that
Inventory and further assessment equipped.  A second batch of meet their reproductive and child
of youth organizations, youth collaborating    NGOs    and health needs.
centers  and  youth  gathering  communities will be identified
places will be carried out and and  funded  by  a  selection
implementation  plan  revised committee.     Mass  media
accordingly. Training of trainers campaign will be conductedon a
of youth counselors, peer leaders bi-annual basis.  Information
and  providers  on  education, sessions by communicators will
motivation   and   counseling be resumed.  Information and
techniques will be organized.  counseling  services by youth
counselors and peer leaders will
be strengthened.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                      Annex 1: Page 14 of 15
COMPONENT 2: REPRODUCTIVE AND CHILD HEALTH
Improve quality of and access to services toward increased utilization
Phase I (the project)               Phase II:                      Phase III:
Oct. 98-Dec. 2002            Jan. 2003-Dec. 2006            Jan. 2007-Dec. 2010
Initiation, setting frameworks  Strengthening and expanding     Ensuring continuity and
sustainability
Assistance is provided to set in  Support services to maintain and  -   Advisory supervision from
place  the  decentralization  of expand   reproductive   health  central  level;  supportive
RCH   programs,  with  full services,   especially   family  technical   supervision   from
decision   making   authority. planning    and    HIV/AIDS  regional and prefecture levels are
Support services  for  readily  services, will be strengthened. funded through  cost recovery
available family planning and  Rehabilitation of selected health mechanisms
HlV/AIDS      services    are centers will be completed. All
strengthened.   Renovation  of medical  officers  and  health  - Continuity of the QACS down
selected health centers is carried  managers will have completed  to the community level.
out and completed. Providers of the first series of training on
readily available family planning Logistics systems in Mamou. -  Regular and sufficient suplies
services   are   trained   in  One-year buffer stocks will be  of contraceptives and essential
communication  for behavioral available. University and school drugs
changes (education, motivation  based health centers will be
and counseling).  Repairs and  restored and equipped. Skills of - Operational databases for staff
replacement  of  elements  of a second batch of providers on  development in regions
logistics  systems are  started. contraceptive technology will be
Rapid  needs  assessment  of upgraded during initial courses -       25%   of  women  of
University  and  school based  of 4 weeks, graduation to the  reproductive age residing in the
health centers are completed and  course will be highlighted by  catchment areas of primary care
implementation   plan  revised  provision of minimum equipment are utilizing contraceptives.
accordingly.      Supervision  and three to six months stocks.
techniques are standardized to  Assistance will be provided to  -  HIV/AIDS prevalence in the
allow  comparisons  within  a the three levels of health systems general population is stabilized
region  and  across  regions. to    resume       "supportive  under 5%
Assistance  is  provided  to  supervisory       techniques".
Divisions  to  train   health National          dissemination  -  All primary care centers are
managers and medical officers in  workshops of "Four-years of staffed with at least one midwife
"supportive       supervisory  Quality Assurance experience"
techniques". Quality Assurance will be implemented. Monitoring  - Maternity waiting shelters are
activities are started at national surveys will be carried out on  operated by communities
level;    existing    "comites relevant aspects of the program
d'hygiene   hospitaliere"   are during the second year of the  -     Emergency  Obstetrical
assessed and supported to derive  second  phase.    Standardized  Services  are  available  and
and adopt a Guinean model of supportive supervision will be operational in 33 prefectures
Quality Assurance. Surveys on  carried out for facilities that are
client perceptions of services are delivering reproductive health.
conducted on random  samples. Survey on client perceptions of
Norns  and   procedures  of services will be conducted on a
reproductive Health are edited  random   sample.    Dynamic
according  to  categories  of standard setting workshops will



Project Appraisal Document                        Project title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                     Annex 1: Page 15 of 15
providers  or  auxiliaries  and  be  implemented  at regional
disseminated. Training needs of levels.  Quality  Assurance
providers and supervisors are  Committees are  operating  in
completed. Training of trainers referral   hospitals.   Q.A
on Contraceptive technology, on  facilitators  will  be  trained
Integrated   management   of identified and trained.  Quality
Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) are  Improvement teams  will  be
conducted.      Logistics   of operating in Prefectoral Health
contraceptives, essential drugs Directorates and in some of the
and vaccines are supported. One  health centers. All facility based
-year buffer stocks is made  providers in project areas will be
available at the end of first year. trained    on    Contraceptive
Medical  officers  and  health  technology    and   Integrated
managers  are  trained   on  Management   of   Childhood
Logistics systems in Mamou..    Illnesses (IMCI).
COMPONENT 3: MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
Strengthen the institutional capacity to manage and coordinate population
and Reproductive Health
Phase I (the project):                   Phase II:                   Phase III:
Oct. 98-Dec. 2002                 Jan. 2003-Dec. 2006          Jan. 2007-Dec. 2010
Initiation, setting frameworks     Strengthening and expanding      Ensuring continuity
and sustainability
The Executive Secretariat of the   Continuation and adaptations of the - gradual devolution
C.N.P.R.H. is responsible for the  decentralized managerial processes.    of elements of
implementation of three policy                                        programs to the
workshops, modeling and projections                                   regional level, through
and dissemination of the 1998 DHS. It                                 implementation of
will also have the authority and means                                selected sustainability
to follow-up and coordinate the                                       procedures.
implementation of population
policies.
-The Population and Health         Operations research for sustainability  - for activities with
Coordination Office facilitates and  at primary care level, for financing  lower performances,
coordinates the implementation of  mechanisms at referral levels      consultative
project activities by executing                                       workshops will be
agencies of line ministries and                                       carried out to analyze
collaborating NGOs.                                                   issues, redefine
-Decentralized management of                                          strategies and plan the
activities will be planned and                                        required
executed. Particularly, annual reviews                                improvements.
of performances and operational plans
will become recurrent managerial
tasks that are scheduled and
completed on "rain or shine basis" as
to reduce time lags between
submission of plans, requests for and
allocation of resources and their
utilization.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                       Annex 2: Page I of I I
Annex 2: Detailed Project (phase I) Description
The Population and Reproductive Health Project's development objective is to provide support
to the Government of Guinea in its effort to prevent reproductive risks, illnesses and mortality by
improving (1) awareness of population issues and promote adequate reproductive health
practices; (2) quality, access and utilization of primary health care and priority reproductive
health programs; and (3) institutional capacity to manage and coordinate population and
reproductive health programs..
COMPONENT 1 - Improve awareness of population issues and promote adequate reproductive
health practices:
US$ 4.5 million (total cost of component).
This component will ensure an environment that will be conducive to awareness and endorsement of
main population and reproductive health issues by constituencies. Expected outputs will be: increased
number of advocates who are decision makers, opinion and business leaders that will gaining the support
of their peers and constituencies on issues considered; increased number of communicators that are
promoting safer behavior among targeted groups.
l .l. Increased awareness of population and development issues
Description:
The sub-component will support advocacy of population issues among various leaders and awareness of
Population and Reproductive Health issues, including awareness of HIV/AIDS, in segments of the
general population, mainly male heads of households, fathers, opinion, cultural and community leaders;
adolescents and young adults and high ranking officials, managers of public and private sectors. Key
messages of the programs will be disseminated either through both small media and mass media.
Advocacy for "sustainable population growth" include the following activities: four national training
workshops conducted by international specialists; thirty six (36) advocacy sessions in thrity three
prefectures and three communes in Conakry; and five advocacy sessions per trained advocate.
Information: will reach targeted groups through the following sequence of activities: three series of
workshops on reproductive health themes for journalists and traditional communicators; thirty two (32)
regional and one hundred and twenty (120) prefect6ral information sessions (4 themes per region or
prefectures).
The project will design, pretest and produce messages on small media and mass media, as well as annual
information campaigns on reproductive health issues. Particularly, facts and information will be provided
to cultural and religious leaders on Islam and fertility regulation, on use of modern contraceptive
methods. Information on availability of Natural Family Planning activities will be made available to
Christian Fundamentalists. Subsequent advocacy and awareness sessions and message designs will be
programmed according to the results obtained from the monitoring activities.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                          Annex 2: Page 2 of II
Financing:
The IDA credit will finance for phase I, the totality of the activities described above. Investments include
training of communicators and advocates; logistics of advocacy sessions; services for design, pretest and
production of messages on small media; and with mass media support; logistics of information sessions;
monitoring activities and at the end of the project and logistics of meetings to prepare the subsequent
behavioral change communication (BCC) program. Behavioral change needs to be reinforced and
renewed over time. For that reason, the second and third phases will resume the support of the same
activities, but under slightly different conditions and design stemming from the assessment of the
outcomes of the project.
Implementation arrangements:
The Ministry of Health, through its Division of Reproductive Health, will provide oversight on the overall
technical quality of key messages for targeted groups. The specialist in charge of behavior change
communication at the Population and Health Coordination Office (PHCO) will facilitate the decentralized
implementation of training of advocates and communicators, of advocacy and information sessions, as
well as annual information campaigns. Community, cultural and opinion leaders of targeted groups will
be identified and selected by technicians from the "COFEG" and "Forum des ONG", according to
specified criteria. At regional and prefectoral levels, under the guidance of "Governorats" and the
technical leadership of regional health inspections, and according to the groups targeted for the sessions,
the regional inspections of Women's Status, or the regional inspections for youth and social educational
activities, will implement the local programme of sessions. Monitoring and evaluation activities will be
carried out by local NGO of researchers, with technical services from similar international NGO as
requested. Results will be used to further improve the efficiency of communication programs.
1.2. Increased promotion of positive and safer behavior
Description:
Target groups for the promotion of positive and safer behaviors will be: 2 million youth (10 to 24 years
old) nationwide; the majority of Guinean men and women of reproductive age; parents and influential
people of the communities: fathers and mothers, birth attendants, teachers and members of law
enforcement corps.
a) Activities for youth cohorts are designed to increase information, education and counseling services
that are attractive and entertaining to in-school and out-of-school adolescents and to young adults, in
urban or rural settings. The project will ensure the partnership of public agencies and donors for a
nationwide standardized approach to behavior communication for youth. Behavior change activities for
youth will include the following: technical training of youth educators, youth peer leaders and youth peer
counselors by international specialists; provision of counseling services in "maisons des jeunes",
"centres d' &eoute ", school health facilities and other youth gathering places; provision of referrals for
clinical services designed to meet their specific needs and decentralized quarterly supervision of youth
behavior communication activities.
b) The second part of the behavioral sub-component will support behavior change process as to bring
fathers and mothers, and men and women of reproductive age to make reproductive decisions, at the end



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                          Annex 2: Page 3 of 11
of counseling sessions with trained providers. Target groups will be first fathers or male heads of
household and influential people -- including traditional birth attendants and traditional healers, in
communities around health centers supported by the project. Mothers of children under five years old
and men and women of reproductive age are the other targeted groups for promotion of positive health
practices. Mothers and caregivers of children between 5 - 10 years old are the main targets of Early
Childhood Development activities. The following activities will be conducted under the project:
training, by international specialists, of teams of trainers-supervisors who will in turn train first facility
based providers of reproductive health care and, later, volunteer health promoters from each type of
target groups; supervision of facility based health providers, community based health promoters and
independent distributors in the following topics: basic inter-personal communication and counseling
techniques; home visits for motivation, as well as topics related to family life education for rural and
urban youth; population dynamics, STI, HIV and AIDS, Safe Motherhood, Community based Child
Health and Early Childhood Development and Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (the latter
is only for facility based providers).
Financing:
The IDA credit will finance the totality of the activities of this sub-component, which include training of
trainers from central and regional levels; regional training of youth educators, counselors and health
providers for youth; prefectoral training of youth peer leaders and health promoters and regional training
of peer counselors and independent distributors. Training topics to be financed will be limited to the
following: basic inter-personal communication and counseling techniques; home visits motivation
techniques; family life education and contraception, population dynamics and reproductive choice;
information services on gender issues and female genital mutilation; referral systems for emergency
contraception and for STIs treatment services.
The IDA credit will also finance logistics of information sessions; information and education materials
(mainly referral cards with basic information, pamphlets, flyers, wall charts and posters, anatomic models
and demonstration kits), refurbishing and equipment of "maisons des jeunes" managed by youth
associations; refurbishing and equipment of "centres d' ecoute" in four prefectoral cities (Pita, Labe,
Faranah and Kankan); of school based and University based health services in Conakry, Boke, Kindia,
Mamou, Kankan, Faranah and N'zerekore; basic furniture for youth meeting areas in small towns and
villages located near the four cities; and transportation for supervision as well as monitoring of activities
and evaluation.
Implementation arrangements:
The DIEM at the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the PHCO and consulting engineering firm
("Bureau d' Etudes") will be responsible for the refurbishing and renovations of the four "centres d'
ecoutes", of school and university based health services, of procurement, reception and delivery of
related medical equipment. The Division of Reproductive Health (DRH), along with the professional at
PHCO in charge of behavior change communications will oversee the technical quality of key messages
for targeted groups, the decentralized implementation of training, sessions and supervision, the
procurement, reception and timely delivery of IEC materials to regional offices that are in charge of
timely delivery to prefectoral health offices. At regional and prefectoral levels, under the guidance of
"Governorats" and the technical leadership of regional health inspections, and according to the groups
targeted for the sessions, the regional inspections of Women's Status, or the regional inspections for
youth and social educational activities, will implement the local programme of communications for safer



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 2: Page 4 of 11
behavior and practices. Teams of prefectoral trainers-supervisors will be responsible for the training and
supervision of facility based health providersas well as the supervision of health volunteers, of annual
reviews of accomplishments, subsequent micro-planning and prefectoral annual operational plans. In
collaboration with the DRH and the PHCO, the " Direction Generale des Radios Rurales et
Comunautaires" will prepare and implement the mass media communication program for behavior
change. Monitoring and evaluation activities will be carried out by local NGO of researchers, with
technical services from similar international NGO as requested. Results will be used to further improve
the efficiency of communication programs.
1.3. Improved equity and access to reproductive health services for vulnerable groups.
Description:
The sub-component is made of a Population Support Fund (PSF) to respond to specific needs of
communities through a flexible funding mechanism. Priority grassroots programs related to population
and reproductive health will be funded, as defined by beneficiaries, with assistance from indigenous
NGOs. Activities that can be funded will thus vary according to local identification of needs. Guinean
NGOs will be supported to implement various activities in relation to reproductive health such as training
and communication for behavior changes, primarily opinion and behavior changes toward female genital
mutilations; community based distribution of services and support for the creation or management of
solidarity funds for Safer Motherhood ('MURIGA"); support to NGO and action committee to ban
female genital mutilations; support to center for legal assistance to women and to the NGO of women in
legal professions in order to enhance their informative role on rights to reproductive choice, status of the
Family Code, and modalities of enactment of the law prohibiting female genital mutilation. Four (4)
types of activities will be eligible under the grants: services of international specialists to assess the
experimental phase of "clinics" of legal assistance to women; training in population and reproductive
health activities, including management and training of trainers (up to 10%); extension of family planning
through community based services (up to 35%); for the remaining 25%, improvement of women' s status,
dissemination of "Guide pratique des droits de la femme" and community based safe motherhood
initiatives. Matching grants at 75%, for the provision of 25% by communities, will be applied for the safe
motherhood initiative.
Financing:
The IDA credit will finance grass root activities through matching funds; training in intermediate
technology (to alleviate urban and rural women's workload); strengthening of managerial capabilities of
collaborating NGOs; participatory techniques and cost recovery for Solidarity Funds; lobbying and
advocacy techniques applied to legal matters; functional literacy and operational costs related to the
management and monitoring of the Fund.
Implementation arrangements:
In collaboration with the Population and Health Coordination Office (PHCO), the Fund will be managed,
according to the relevant sections of the project implementation manual, by a Selection Committee that is
chaired by the representative of Ministry of Social Affairs. The selection committee will be responsible
for overall quality of implementation of the PSF. The Selection Committee will have the following seven
(7) members: one representative of Ministry of Social Affairs and Chair person of the Committee, one
representative of the Ministry of Health, one representative of Ministry of Youth, Sports and Civic



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 2: Page 5 of 11
Education, one representative of Communication and Culture, one representative of women' s NGOs, one
representative of "Forum des ONG", one representative of Ministry of Interior and Decentralization. The
specialist in charge of NGO at the PHCO will provide technical support, secretarial functions and follow-
up of the Committee's decisions. The Committee will send semi-annual activity reports to IDA.
Coordination of NGOs for Women (COFEG) will ensure the coordination of the implementation down to
the prefectoral level. Coordination of international NGOs in Guinea ("Forum des ONG") would ensure
the monitoring and technical audits of supported activities.
COMPONENT 2 - Improve quality and utilization of priority reproductive and child health
programs: US$ 6.0 million (total cost of component)
The design of Reproductive Health in Guinea had highlighted the unmet needs of segments of population,
such as the youth cohorts and men of reproductive age, as it has also put forward managerial deficiencies
of programs, particularly the lack of nationwide operational strategy for HIV/AIDS prevention and the
slow expansion of family planning/contraceptive services and its limited access by Youth.  This
component will ensure that targeted beneficiaries will have access and continue the utilization of
reproductive health services.
2.1. Rationalized management of support for Reproductive and Child Health services
Description:
The sub-component will support the capacity of national programs to execute decentralized priority
reproductive health programmes. National programs will be supported in their capacity to provide
advisory supervision to the eight regions; central level program managers and international specialists
will jointly assist the eight regions in finalizing regional operational strategies, designing standardized
supportive supervision modules, Quality Assurance module and training of national trainers , providers
and auxiliaries on education and counseling techniques, contraceptive technology, and Integrated
Management of Childhood Illnesses. By the end of the second year and after the completion of
standardized supportive supervision by regions, a national training plan will be submitted at the
coordination meeting of donor agencies. Further improvement of managerial processes of reproductive
health program, through a differentiated and sequential implementation, that can be described as follows:
first, the establishment of common managerial arrangements such as standardized supervision, quality
assurance of care and services, functional logistic support systems and regular monitoring and
coordination. The next step will be standardized timed sequences of implementation of quality clinical
services, and safe practices among targeted groups. Annual review of achievements will be based on
relevant, accurate, reliable and easily accessible data from population and reproductive health
management information systems.
The second component will support the country's eight administrative regions in their capacity to
implement the five areas of the National Reproductive Health Programme. It will support the regional
directorates in their tasks of coordination of technical programmes and managerial activities. Support at
the regional level will include the following: quality assurance of referral and primary care services and
community based distribution; upgrading the skills of providers, through training of trainers-supervisors
and of providers, and later improving their performances through continuing supportive supervision, and
quality improvement operations in prefectures and health centers. Capacity for management of logistics
of contraceptives, essential drugs and vaccines at the three levels of health systems will be enhanced. At
the prefectoral level, the project will address the managerial needs of prefectures in connection with



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 2: Page 6 of II
capacity for essential drugs and contraceptives' logistics as to prevent shortages; timely preparation of
annual workplans, budgets and supportive supervisory training of promoters, providers and independent
(trained/licensed) distributors. By the end of the first phase, dynamic standard setting, procedures and
regulations will be put into effect by at least 50% of facilities and providers. The second and third phases
will continue the support for the quality assurance of care and services (QACS), in tenn of training and
supervision.
Financing:
The credit will complement the financing provided by bilateral and multilateral agencies active in each
region. Investment costs under the IDA credit will include: exhaustive assessment of competencies, skills
and training needs of all providers, maintenance of functional databases of equipment, material and
personnel at regional level, national workshops on standardized supportive supervision techniques, costs
of first round of supervision of all primary health centers from the regions; regional workshops on
Quality Assurance of Care and Services, production and dissemination of related modules, logistics of
related training and supervision for providers, promoters and distributors in regions and prefectures.
The IDA credit will finance the construction of, equipment and consumable for two regional warehouses
in Conakry and Mamou; the remodeling of central EPI offices, repairs and replacement of critical
elements of national EPI program, procurement of an EPI workshop truck to be based in Mamou, and a
one year supply of STI and drugs for opportunistic infections, for IMCI as buffer / emergency stocks to
be held in Conakry central warehouse, procurement of supply to prevent nosocomial infections in health
centers, three (3) months buffer stock of contraceptives for central or regional levels and two (2) months
for integrated health centers. The IDA credit will finance rehabilitation of, equipment and consumable
for three prefectoral directorates of health that will be selected among the following: Kankan, Kouroussa,
Mandiana, Dabola, Kerouane and Beyla. The IDA credit will finance vehicles and logistics of
supervision from regions and prefectures as well as office and vehicle consumable for health regional
inspections and prefectoral health directorates.
Implementation arrangements:
Within the Ministry of Health, managers of the five reproductive health programs at the Division of
Reproductive Health (DRH), in close collaboration with the Population and Health Coordination Office
(PHCO) and the regional health inspections offices, will be responsible for the oversight of technical
quality of decentralized implementation of their respective programmes. The DIEM, in collaboration
with the PHCO and consultant engineering firm will be responsible for the construction, rehabilitation
and remodeling of facilities mentioned above. In partnership with representations of USAID, KfW-
UJNFPA and UNICEF, the PHCO, central and regional managers of PEV/SSP/ME will be accountable for
the procurement, storage, delivery and quality assurance of contraceptives, STIs, drugs for opportunistic
infections and IMCI, and related equipment and consumable. The PHCO at the Ministry of Health will
be accountable for the management of funds allocated to training, supervision, quality assurance
activities. Regional health inspection offices will be accountable for the decentralized management of
funds for training and supervision, under annually renewed accounting certifications by an independent
firm acceptable to IDA. Regional inspection offices will be held accountable for annual reviews of
Reproductive Health performances and subsequent planning and coordination. As is the case for other
health programmes, prefectoral teams of trainers and supervisors are accountable for technical results of
health centers and maternities. In collaboration with the PEV/SSP/ME program and prefectoral



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                          Annex 2: Page 7 of 11
health directorates, the PHCO will ensure the timely procurement, reception and delivery of equipment,
contraceptives, drugs and consumable, especially their issuance to trainees returning to posts of
assignment.
2.2. Contraceptives, STD/HIV/AIDS, family planning services;
Description:
The sub-component will support the provision of culturally acceptable and yet medically safe
contraceptive services, in facilities and communities. Services will be organized according to Quality
Assurance techniques applied to standards (norms), procedures and guidelines that were defined by the
Ministry of Health in 1996. Access will be increased by referrals to special service for youth, by
community based volunteer health promoters.  Volunteers and independent trained and licensed
distributors will provide infornation and non medical services and refer beneficiaries who need long term
methods to facility based practitioners. Follow-up of users will be done at community level by
distributors on the basis of counter-referral notes issued during the visits at health facilities. Clinical
practicum sites, facilities and independent distributors in the project areas will be assured of the regularity
and quality of supply of contraceptives and essential drugs. The project will integrate contraceptive
services in 15 existing health centers and will support the training of providers, the standardization of
supervision of clinical services and set-up of quality improvement teams at delivery sites. The project
will support monthly information sessions in cities where HIV/AIDS diagnosis and screening are
available. The project will support operations research on sexual behavior, contraception and family
planning practices in two model clinics (also practicum sites for training); and screening and treatment
services of STD/HIV/AIDS, along with monthly information sessions, targeted to high risk transmitters at
the following locations: Boussoura, Dixin Port, Boulbinet, army barracks in Conakry, and along the main
routes and migration paths: Km36, Boffa, Kolabui, Tamagally, Marela, Sinkor and Banankord. These ten
(10) specialized health posts (or "clinics") will be staffed by junior unemployed physicians and nurses
(one physician and two nurses per site) who will be allowed to manage the facilities to earn minimum
income, under the condition that they agree to periodically participate to training activities, operations
research and studies needed by the Government, the PNLS and the project. Furthermore, on the other
end of the continuum of HIV/AIDS care, the project will contribute to the installation of safe blood
supply, the prevention of maternal child transmission (MCT) of HIV infection. During the remaining
second and third phases, the IDA program will provide one-year of buffer stock for essential drugs and
contraceptives, and will put in place mechanisms to ensure the continuity of quality sustainable services.
Financing:
In this first phase, the IDA credit will finance the construction of equipment, contraceptives, essential
drugs and consumable for two model clinics, the rehabilitation and renovation 15 health centers, the
rehabilitation of selected school and university based health services and the procurement of start-up kits
for independent (trained/licensed) distributors. The IDA credit will finance the training of prefectoral
teams of trainers-supervisors, training and supervision of providers and auxiliaries in education and
counseling techniques, contraceptive technology, syndromic approach of STI diagnosis and treatment and
prevention of HIV/AIDS. With regards to groups of high transmitters, the IDA credit will finance
construction, equipment, STI drugs and consumable for 10 specialized health posts, as well as the training
and supervision of independent practitioners recruited among junior unemployed physicians and nurses.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 2: Page 8 of 11
The IDA credit will finance the rehabilitation and equipment of the national referral laboratory for
HIV/AIDS and the equipment of regional laboratories for screening of HIV/AIDS (Kindia, Mamou,
Labe, Kankan and N'zerekore).
Implementation arrangements:
The Division of Reproductive Health (DRH) at the National Directorate of Public Health, at the Ministry
of Health will be responsible for the overall technical quality of care and services, of training and
supervision of practitioners and distributors. The DIEM, in collaboration with the PHCO and consultant
engineering firm will be responsible for the construction and rehabilitation of two model family planning
clinics and 10 specialized health posts. The DIEM and the Division of Logistics, with the PHCO in
coordination with other donors (KfW, UNFPA and USAID), will ensure timely procurement, adequate
storage, and quality assurance of contraceptives, drugs, equipment and consumable. The PEV/SSP/ME
program at the Division of Logistics, in collaboration with prefectoral health directorates, will be
responsible for adequate storage and timely distribution and delivery of contraceptives, drugs, equipment
and consumable to facilities.. While the eight Regional Health Inspections Offices will be responsible for
the execution of decentralized family planning, STI treatment and STI/HIV/AIDS prevention
programmes, the 33 Prefectoral Health Directorates will be responsible for the implementation of quality
assurance of care and services (QACS) through standardized supervisory training and follow-up on
delivery sites of quality improvement teams (QIT). Practical training for Family Planning will be sub-
contracted to AGBEF in locations with high den;ty of clients such as Kindia, Labe and Kankan.
Practical training for syndromic approach of treatment of STIs and prevention of HIV/AIDS will be
conducted in the 10 specialized health posts. Practitioners based at primary care facility will provide
reproductive health services to individuals, couples and families referred by volunteer health promoters
and independent distributors.  Practitioners and distributors will be responsible for annual micro-
planning, with assistance from prefectoral health directorates.
2.3. Safe Motherhood and Child Health services;
Description:
This sub-component will address Safe Motherhood and Child Health as follows:
2.3.1. Emergency Obstetrical program will include: training of obstetricians and their teams in Essentials
of Emergency Obstetrical Care (EEOC); prevention of maternal and child transmission (MCT),
prevention of transmission and contamination in health care setting; improvement of maternity working
conditions and environment through Quality Assurance Committees ("Comites d' Hygiene
Hospitaliere"); improvement of safety of blood transfusion; inventory of needs and resources for Safe
Motherhood of isolated villages and communities in underserved prefectures, by using "active
participatory research" or participatory research appraisal (PRA) techniques; training of volunteer health
promoters to the following: early screening of risks and danger sign during pregnancy; early detection of
risks and signs of complication during childbirth; community organization for solidarity funds for Safe
Motherhood ("MURIGA"), periodic communication with health centers and transportation to nearest
emergency obstetrical services.
2.3.2. Prevention of malnutrition and community based early childhood development services will
include: inventory of needs and resources in villages collaborating with the program; logistical support to
collaborating NGOs, or to local schools involved in early childhood development activities.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 2: Page 9 of 11
2.3.3. Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses will take place at primary care and referral
facilities. Support provided during the first phase will include: training of trainers and providers of IMCI
services and provision of essential drugs and support for supportive supervision of care and services.
Financing:
The IDA credit will finance the construction of the prefectoral maternity of Kankan, the rehabilitation or
renovation of operating theaters, intensive care units and post operative wards in the 8 most underserved
prefectures of Koundara, Gaoual, Siguiri, Beyla, Mandiana, Dinguiraye and Lola, and 10 maternity
waiting shelters to be located next to referral obstetrical services. The IDA credit will finance vehicles
and other emergency transportation, radio communication devices and emergency obstetrical kits, as well
as drugs and consumable to prevent transmission and contamination. The IDA credit will finance
behavior change communication for Safe Motherhood from the 33 prefectoral hospitals, training of
prefectoral teams in Essential Obstetrics (including emergency obstetrics), training for QACS in hospital
setting, training for community organization for solidarity funds for Safe motherhood ("MURIGA") and
supervision of prenatal care and obstetrical services in health centers and communities. The IDA credit
will also co-finance with UNICEF and WHO activities pertaining to prevention of malnutrition and
training and supervision in IMCI for under five years old.
Implementation arrangements:
At the central level, the Safe Motherhood Program at the DRH, with assistance from the PHCO will
oversee the technical quality of decentralized Safe Motherhood activities. While the eight Regional
Health Inspections Offices will be responsible for the execution of decentralized Safe Motherhood and
Child Health programs, the 33 Prefectoral Health Directorates will be responsible for the implementation
of quality assurance of obstetrical care and services (QACS) through standardized supervisory training
and follow-up of quality improvement teams (QIT). An academic institution will collaborate with
COFEG for the implementation of the "MURIGA" in spontaneous localities (shanty towns) around
Conakry and in underserved prefectures. Prefectoral Health Directorates will collaborate with UNICEF
for the training of village birth attendants, with WHO country teams for the implementation of IMCI
training and supervision.
COMPONENT 3. - Strengthening institutional capacity to manage and coordinate Population and
Reproductive Health Programs US$1.5 million (total costs of component)
This component will ensure and foster a policy environment that is conducive to policy dialogue, policy
changes and awareness of main population and reproductive health issues by constituencies. Expected
outputs of the component encompass policy reforms and program decisions stemming from increased
consideration of reliable, accurate and up-to-date information; better coordination of programs funded by
various donors; incremental increases of Government's share of recurrent costs for Population and
Reproductive Health Programs and timely implementation, at all administrative levels, of common and
recurrent managerial tasks pertaining to the national reproductive health program.
3.1. Strengthened institutional capacities to better manage population programs
Description:
The purpose of this sub-component is to foster and maintain the coordination of population programs and
to promote informed decision making at executive and at implementation levels. The sub-component will



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                      Annex 2: Page 10 of 11
provide accurate data in the form of executive briefs, regional and prefectoral updates of social trends,
and special reports on an as needed basis. Activities to be conducted under the sub-component include:
three policy dialogue workshops; modeling and projections of economic and population growths vis-a-vis
the AIDS epidemic, youth and the labor market; on-the -job training of Guinean statistician-
demographers; graphic treatment and dissemination of the results of 1998 demographic and health survey
(DHS98).
Financing:
The IDA credit will finance the renovation, computerized workstations, equipment and furniture for the
Executive Secretary of the National Committee for Population and Human Resources ("C.N.P.R.H.").
The IDA credit will finance the graphic treatment and dissemination workshops of the DHS98.
Implementation arrangements:
The implementation of civil works financed by the IDA credit will be delegated to the DIEM at the
Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the PHCO. Installation of the computerized information
systems in their renovated prepared locations will be contracted out by the PHCO. Regular maintenance
of the computerized equipment will be the responsibility of the supplier or its, local representation.
Professional staff of the PHCO will provide technical assistance to the Executive Secretary for the three
policy dialogue workshops and on as needed basis.
3.2. National coordination of Population and Health
Description:
Coordination of the project's execution will mostly consist of the coordination of allocation of resources,
oversight of technical activities conducted by institutions and collaborating NGOs, annual and mid-term
reviews, and national plans of operations. Coordination and oversight tasks will be carried out by
national professional staff with the following skill mix: management of reproductive health services;
statistics and demography; economist; rural sociology and community organization and participation and
behavior change communications (please confer to job descriptions in Annex of the Project
Implementation Manual).
Financing:
The IDA credit will finance during the first phase of the program the totality of coordination activities for
population and reproductive health. The IDA credit will finance the rehabilitation of the facility for
PHCO, and the offices of eight (8) prefectoral health directorates. The IDA credit will also finance the
office equipment, office consumable, vehicle and consumable of PHCO; installation, operations and
maintenance of office equipment, as well as the wages and benefits of PHCO recruited professional and
support staff. The IDA credit will also finance consultancy services, long term training in Epidemiology
and short term training in management of drug supply. During phase II and III of the program,
Governement's leadership for coordination will be translated into an increased share of financing of
coordination activities.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                        Annex 2: Page 11 of 11
Implementation arrangements:
The PHCO at the Ministry of Health will be involved as follows:
1 - Management of funds allocated to training, supervision, quality assurance activities; annual renewal
of accounting certifications of regional health inspections offices.
2 - Joint supervision with the DIEM of the consulting engineering firm ("Bureau d' Etudes") responsible
for the refurbishing and renovations of the four "centres d 'ecoutes", of school and university based health
services and of procurement, reception and delivery of related medical equipment; for the construction,
rehabilitation of two model family planning clinics and 10 specialized health posts; and joint supervision
with the DIEM of the consulting engineering firm for the renovation of the offices of the Executive
Secretary of C.N.P.R.H.
3 - Coordination with the DIEM and the Division of Logistics at the Ministry of Health (i.e.
PEV/SSP/ME program), in collaboration with other donors (KfW, UNFPA and USAID), of timely
procurement, adequate storage, and quality assurance of contraceptives, drugs, equipment and
consumable.
4 - Overall quality of behavior change communications, decentralized implementation of training of
advocates and communicators, of advocacy and information sessions, as well as annual information
campaigns; technical quality of key messages for targeted groups, the decentralized implementation of
training, sessions and supervision, the procurement, reception and timely delivery of IEC materials to
regional offices that are in charge of timely delivery to prefectoral health offices.
5 -    Technical assistance to the Executive Secretary for the three policy dialogue workshops and any
task on an as needed basis.
6 -    Technical support, secretarial functions and follow-up of decisions of the Population Support
Fund Committee, including semi-annual activity reports to IDA.
7 -    Oversight of technical quality of decentralized family planning services, prevention and treatment
of HIV/STIs, school and University based services, emergency obstetrical services and community based
Safe Motherhood activities.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                        Annex 3: Page I of I
Annex 3: Estimated Project' Costs
Local               Foreign            Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Project Components
l'opulation    Awareness,   Safer        1.42                 2.63              4.05
Behavior
R.H. Quality Services                    1.89                 3.51              5.40
Institutional Capacity                   0.48                  0.88             1.36
Total Baseline Cost                      3.79                 7.02              10.81
Physical Contingencies                0.15                  0.28              0.43
Price Contingencies                   0.27                  0.49             0.76
Total Project Cost                       4.21                 7.79              12.00



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                       Annex 4: Page I of 10
Annex 4: Guinea: Population & Reproductive Health Project
Economic Analysis
I.    Introduction
1.    Country context. Over the past five years, Guinea has made significant progress in achieving a
moderate but steady rate of economic growth averaging 4.5 percent per year within a stable
macroeconomic environment characterized by declining fiscal and external deficits. However, actual
results on the ground in terms of higher per-capita income and poverty reduction were poor: 52 percent of
Guineans currently live below the poverty line. This situation is the result of a rapid growth of the
country's population (3.2 % per year) whose overall health status is equally poor. The 1994 Cairo
Conference gave the authorities the opportunity to initiate the implementation of already prepared and
adopted sectoral strategies to deal vigorously with the issue of population and reproductive health. This
project, a product of an intensive dialogue with the authorities and stakeholders through studies and
workshops, supports this strategy; its development objectives are to support the Government's effort to:
(i) improve awareness of population issues and promote adequate reproductive health practices; and (ii)
improve quality, access and utilization of primary health care and priority reproductive health programs.
2.    Objectives. The main objectives of this analysis are three-fold: (i) to provide the economic
rationale for public intervention; (ii) to demonstrate that the project design is appropriate and supports
cost-effective and affordable activities; and finally (iii) to demonstrate that the project contributes to
poverty alleviation, but does not crowd out the private sector, and adds net benefit to the national
economy. In addition to the results of numerous studies, workshops and official documents such as the
Medium-term  Development Strategy (Vision 2010), the Population Policy, and the Health Sector
Development Strategy, this analysis is based on extensive Economic and Sector Work such as the Poverty
Assessment (Report No. 16465-GUI), the draft Public Expenditure Review (Report No. 15147-GUI), the
President's Report of the Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit (PEMAC, Report No.
P7198-GUI), and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No. 17183-GUI).
HI.    Macroeconomic framework
3.    Economic performance. On most accounts, Guinea is classified as one of the poorest countries in
Africa, with a per-capita GDP estimated at $US 535, life expectancy at birth at only 45 years, and a high
illiteracy of some 80 percent amongst the adult population; yet the country is richly endowed with
agricultural, mineral and energy resources. This disastrous situation is blamed mostly on past policy
failures encompassing over 20 years of centralized command-type economic management which the
authorities have been engaged in undoing since 1986. The first round of reforms produced encouraging
results; but as the law of diminishing marginal returns started to take hold in the face of more deep-rooted
and politically sensitive reforms, the second round of reforms was characterized by uneven
implementation. Overall, the performance of the economy in recent years has been satisfactory. GDP
growth inched closer to the 5 percent target; to compensate for foreign exchange shortfalls due to the
decline of bauxite and aluminum prices on the international market, both fiscal revenues and exports from
non-mining activities have increased; much was done to contain inflation which fell from 20 percent in
1990 to 3.6 percent in 1996.



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 4: Page 2 of 10
III.   Main Sectoral Issues
4.     Reference. Please report to the main text for more details on the main issues to be addressed by
the project and strategic choices (Block 2, para. 7). Nevertheless, the following background and issues
are highlighted from an economic and financial perspective.
5.     Population. With some 75 percent rural dwellers, the population is estimated at 7.2 million as of
mid- 1996. Youth population under 15, women of reproductive age (15-49), and children under 5 account
for 45, 25 and 18 percent, respectively. Implementation and monitoring of population programs are
deficient in supporting youths' behavioral change (IEC) in relation to reproductive choices, age of
marriage and gender. With close to two million women entering their fertile years which will span over
the next 30 years, the risk of a "population momentum" has never been greater with its potential negative
impact on socio-economic infrastructures.
6.    Provision andfinancing of health care. The modem  health care system  employs some 980
medical doctors; it is predominantly public (94% of doctors). The Ministry of Health is responsible for
formulating, planning and managing sectoral policy; it discharges these functions through its technical
directorates for population and health programs, administration, finance, and planning. Increasingly, these
functions are also being carried out by decentralized regional health inspectorates and district health
directorates. Many health centers have now adopted cost-recovery schemes, whereby fees are collected
for health services, especially the prescription and direct provision of drugs. Some 53 percent of public
hospital have a rate of cost recovery of non-wage expenditures of 50 percent or more (DNES, 1995).
Main sectoral issues are:
=> A globally underfunded health care system: Despite the Government's effort to protect health care
funding in the past five years, the overall resources allocated to the sector remains largely
insufficient. Moreover, real health spending has declined at an alarming rate in recent years from
US$7 to about US$2-3 in per-capita terms over the 1988-1996 period;
=> Inequitable resource allocation with an urban bias: Access to health services exhibit large
geographical and income-related disparities as a result of a highly skewed allocation of public
resources in favor of urban hospitals which consume over three fourths of budgetary spending with
90 percent accruing to wages and salaries; this misallocation leaves non-wage recurrent expenditures
insufficient and limits the effectiveness of the health care system;
> Inadequate coverage of the poor: As health care is income elastic, wealthier groups access the health
system and benefit from it far more than the poor. Besides the affordability factor, low demand of
public health care is mainly due to low coverage, poor quality of service, especially health providers'
inadequate behavior. More than cost recovery fees, the travel and waiting time is a deterrent to
seeking modem treatment, explaining why over 60 percent of the poorest quintile of the population
do not seek needed services (IHS data, 1994);
>  Weak institutional and referral capacities: To a large extent, most health districts are not equipped
to implement their mandate pertaining to management, training and supervisory functions of health
centers. In addition, roles and responsibilities for management and decision-making are either ill-
defined or overly centralized, especially with regard to effective allocation of resources. Though
formal entry into public health system is at the sub-prefectural level, many non-primary health
establishments often diagnose and treat primary ailments. Referral rates from health centers to



Project Appraisal Document                          Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                            Annex 4: Page 3 of 10
hospitals are extremely low at about 1 percent. This has resulted in a low utilization rate of 25 percent
for primary health centers in Conakry and in most of other urban areas, reflecting the availability of
hospital care.
7.     The Private Sector. Private sector provision and financing of health services is very limited. It is
comprised of a large informal sector in villages and small cities that consists of an unknown, but likely
important, number of traditional medicine practitioners along with a small formal sector that employs
about 57 medical doctors and dentists, 51 nurses, and 128 pharmacists, all located in cities. Privately-
funded medical insurance is practically non-existent; only the "Caisse Nationale de S&curitk Sociale"
(CNSS) provides limited health benefits to participants and their immediate family. However, a large
number of traditional risk-pooling mechanisms (ie. Tontines, Mutuelles, Sere) exist to assist community
members in need. As they all entail the payment of some kind of premium, these mechanisms are likely
to exclude the poorest segment of the population.
IV.   Rationale for Public Intervention
8.     Characteristics of the health sector. Due to asymmetric and imperfect information, limited
access of low income households to services and moral hazards generated by special interest groups, the
health sector is characterized by a variety of market failures that justify public intervention. This is the
case especially for low income countries such as Guinea where basic socio-infrastructures and private
initiatives are embryonic. What follows fully justifies public intervention in the areas of population and
reproductive health in Guinea:
=> Public goods. Activities financed by the project comprise population programs and public health
interventions such as: (i) media-based information campaigns on STIs and reproductive health; (ii)
vaccination and wide-area control of disease vectors that are well targeted actions to protect mothers
and their infants; and (iii) readily available scientific information for policy formulation, planning and
monitoring. One individual can use these interventions or benefits from them without limiting other's
consumption or benefit; and as long as someone pays, everybody benefits. They are known as public
goods for which only the Government can ensure provision;
=> Externalities. Individual pricing and demand for numerous basic health interventions is often not
influenced by the risk of infecting others. For example, curing an individual of tuberculosis or of a
mild and asymptomatic STI also prevents the transmission of the disease. If these spillovers of
benefits to others is not taken into account, treatment will be priced too high in the private market and
insufficient treatment of the illness will be taken. Only a global evaluation of economy-wide benefits
to society can reveal the high cost-effectiveness that justify public sector intervention. The project
focuses exclusively on this kind of health care service;
= Poverty alleviation. Reducing absolute poverty requires the enhancement of labor productivity -- the
most abundant asset of the poor -- and an increase in human capital. Increased access to basic health
care, education -- especially in the area of population dynamics and reproductive health, and better
nutrition are the most cost-effective and quasi-universal means to win the fight against poverty. By
increasing investment in the health of the poor, the project is supporting an economically efficient
and politically acceptable strategy for reducing poverty and alleviating its negative consequences.
Improvement in maternal health and nutrition increases the survival chances and well-being of
children; and this in turn leads to lower fertility levels. Declining fertility is likely to generate a
positive impact on the environment and economic gains for the existing and future generations.
Typically earning less than US$1 per day in real purchasing power, most of the Guineans in rural



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 4: Page 4 of 10
areas can neither afford much health care, nor borrow to pay for it. Thus, the redistributive function
of the state is called for to reduce the inequity in society by lowering the burden of disease and
fertility among poor women and children, thereby enabling low income households to participate in
productive economic activity;
=> Support to private sector initiatives. Although public sector intervention is both predominant and
justified in Guinea's health care system, the private sector has an important role to play in the areas of
IEC and delivery of clinical services. A key medium-term objective is a gradual increase of private
provision of basic clinical services. Public interventions should focus on: (i) subsidizing of core
health services that actually reach the poor; (ii) organizing public sector structures and activities to
support the private sector; (iii) strengthening the institutional, judicial and regulatory framework; and
(iv) ensuring professional and quality excellence through accreditation and competition. The
participative and consultative approach embraced by the project has allowed the identification of
complementary activities regarding private sector initiatives and existing donor programs (UNICEF,
USAID and UNFPA). Project implementation will rely heavily on local communities and NGOs that
interact with beneficiaries on a daily basis.
V.    Appropriate Form of Intervention
9.     Choice of interventions. Justification of public intervention is only part of the story, the right
choice of interventions as well as the proper level of provision of any public good require careful analysis
of the expected health benefits in relation to the costs (see cost-effectiveness analysis below). To ensure
that subsidized population and health services actually reach the poor, programs must be properly
targeted to beneficiaries and restrictions may be necessary for the kind of care that is paid for by the
public sector. For example, offering free care of all types to everyone leads to geographic or quality-
based rationing of services; such universal programs may not usually reach the poor or improve their
health status. In order to make optimal choices for interventions, project objectives have been determined
by a participatory approach and community empowerment as described below.
10.   Participatory approach. Project identification and preparation have been guided by an extensive
participatory and consensus building approach which included: (i) holding throughout the country more
than 20 consultative seminars involving representatives of primary beneficiaries and local NGOs, civil
service managers and opinion leaders; (ii) the use of national consultants to carry out a number of studies
and surveys; and (iii) a core team of national experts to serve as a technical advisory body. Following this
consultative and facts finding phase, a workshop (based on ZOPP methodology) was held to define the
appropriate project design. Such a participatory approach has successfully ensured that project content
reflects most of the concerns of stakeholders and partners, and that its objectives are considered as key
development priorities for Guinea. Based on the results of these grassroots consultative meetings, the
Government has also identified three additional priority areas (namely education, agriculture and rural
development, and road maintenance) which, along with health, will benefit from the Bank-supported
Public Expenditure Management Program (see PEAIAC, para. 2).
VI.   Economic and Sector Linkages
11.   Links to the CAS. The overarching goal of long-term development highlighted in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) is to improve the well-being of the Guineans by ensuring efficient delivery of
social services, especially in rural areas, and by promoting private sector-led growth and employment.
Consistent with the CAS's social development objectives, the project supports the highly intertwined
population policy and the national health strategy. In the area of population, the project seeks to



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                          Annex 4: Page 5 of 10
contribute to the alleviation of poverty through improving the well-being of the population by gradually
increasing the use of contraceptives which, in turn, will lower the total fertility rate and reduce population
growth. As for the health care system, the Government's overall objective is to improve the quality of and
to expand the coverage of primary health services, especially those targeted towards the vulnerable
population of rural women and children. As noted earlier, the project is based on the findings of
numerous sector studies and workshops which have confirmed its objectives (see para. 2).
12.    Community participation and private sector development. Improvement of basic economic and
social infrastructures in rural areas with a strong community participation is a key component of the
Government's strategy to attract private investment and facilitate development in these areas. Achieving
results on the ground would provide an answer to the politically sensitive problem of "rural exodus" to
urban agglomerations and the ensuing high level of urban vanguards and youth unemployment. The
availability of basic economic infrastructures in rural zones would gradually increase productivity, raise
rural incomes and provide major incentives for private sector provision and financing of health services
in those areas. In the medium-term, the public sector role in rural basic service delivery may need to be
re-evaluated to avoid the potential for crowding out the private sector.
I.    Alternatives Guiding Project Design
13.   Reference. Please refer to the main text (Block 2, para. 8) for four project alternatives considered
and reasons for rejection. They include (i) an exclusive contraceptive and STI/HIV/AIDS prevention
project; (ii) a project with a stronger family planning "IEC" component; (iii) a maternal and child health
and family planning project; and (iv) dividing project components into separate sub-projects that are
designed and implemented by the Ministries of Plan, of Social Affairs and of Health.
14.    The Status-Quo. In addition to the above alternatives, the status-quo is a possible alternative to
be considered. As illustrated in section III (main sectoral issues), maintaining the status-quo would likely
result in a "population momentum" with an explosive growth which would, in turn, undermine the effort
to create basic economic and social infrastructures in rural areas; low income consumers in those areas
would not gain access to reproductive health services; the lack of information and meaningful community
participation would continue to hamper rational decision-making by consumers; and more importantly,
the quality of health services, particularly at the primary level, would suffer since preventive and
promotional level services such as family planning and nutrition education or immunization of under five
years would continue to be supplied below socially optimal levels. All such outcomes would worsen the
already poor health status of the population, and absolute poverty would drastically increase throughout
the country.
VIII. Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
15.   Patterns of resource allocation. Difficulties in expenditure reallocation in the past five years
have created discrepancies between the stated official policy of increasing public spending for primary
health care to combat the most prevalent diseases and actual patterns of resource allocation. Total
expenditure for primary care averaged less than a quarter of total spending; official policy to redeploy
health personnel to the primary care positions has yet to materialize since the latter accounts for less than
a third of total wages and salaries; and finally, the dismal share of non-wage in total spending makes
infrastructure and vehicle maintenance -- vital means for reaching the poor in remote areas -- rather
tenuous. In the past 4-5 years, total budgetary expenditures for health services have averaged GNF37.6
billion, accounting for 6.2% of total public expenditures. In terms of investment financing, the BND for



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 4: Page 6 of 10
health amounted to about GNF 4.9 billion (13.1% of health investment). Community participation,
coupled with cost recovery for selected hospital services provide a viable short-term solution while a
more aggressive expenditure reallocation policy can be designed and implemented.
16.   Fiscal impact. First, budgetary counterpart funds needed are estimated to amount to GNF2.0
billion (0.5% of public investment) over the next five years. Second, annual recurrent expenditures
arising from project implementation are expected to average GNF577 million (0.1% of recurrent budget).
These are not expected to impose a major fiscal burden. Though Guinea has initiated cost recovery at
almost all levels of the health system (Bamako Initiative), a more aggressive action in that regard is
perhaps unnecessary before a viable program to protect indigent patients is firmly in place. Moreover,
such an action is likely to put significant stress on the poor and dampen low income households' demand
for health care services.
17.   Financial sustainability. Under a rather conservative growth and budget outlook over the next
decade, public health expenditures would increase gradually (along with other priority sectors identified
by the PEMA4C) from 6.3 percent of budgetary spending in 1996 (1.1% of GDP) to 8 percent by 2005
(2% of GDP), and reach around 10 percent by 2010 (2-3% of GDP). In order to create the basis for
sustained growth, the overall public investment budget would increase from 8.6 percent of GDP in 1997
to reach and stabilize at about 10 percent by the year 2005. Though increasing, the investment-related
recurrent budget remains manageable under normal revenue assumptions which exclude severe terms of
trade shocks. However, ensuring a financially viable system in the long term will require a more
coordinated action from all development partners within an adequate public expenditure framework. Such
a program will in turn require a well-coordinated sector-wide approach. As noted earlier, the widespread
community support for the absolute poor, in addition to the spectacular development of numerous
traditional risks pooling mechanisms in the community augur well with the financially sustainable set of
population and reproductive health activities financed by the project.
IX.   Cost effectiveness Analysis
18.   Purpose. The purpose of the cost-effectiveness analysis is to show that the project supports
efficient health interventions in terms of net gain in health or reduction in disease burden in relation to
costs. It has some limitations such as failing to provide a direct analytical basis for dealing with
decentralization, drug and services delivery, and quality of care. Numerous studies and analyses have
demonstrated that the major causes of premature death in Guinea (communicable, maternal, and perinatal
diseases) are subject to highly cost-effective interventions. The 1993 WDR (Investing in Health) defined
a cost-effective intervention as one where the cost per DALY (Disability-Adjusted Life Years) saved is
below US$250; Interventions with cost per DALY gained below US$100 are classified as highly cost-
effective.
19.   Project interventions. Analysis of the cost effectiveness of the interventions financed by the
proposed project falls into two broad categories. First, the concept of the US$ cost per DALY saved is
utilized to compare the cost effectiveness of overall interventions such as ante-natal care and
immunization to other interventions in the health sector; and second, the notions of couple years of
protection (CYP) and number of births averted are used to analyze the cost effectiveness of alternative
forms of service delivery for a number of reproductive health interventions. Finally, the set of
interventions supported by the project are compared with recommendations from cross-country studies
such as the 1993 WDR and "Better Health for Africa, 1994". Following a standard practice, project
interventions have been grouped into 5 categories in table 2 below. The last column is of particular



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 4: Page 7 of 10
importance since it gives the cost effectiveness indicator for each population activity, reproductive health
intervention and institutional support thereof. The five categories of rating range from high (H) to low (L)
cost effectiveness (CE).
20.   Cost per DALY saved. Extensive use was made of the results from country-specific studies (i.e.
Guinea, Mozambique, India, etc.) as well as cross-country studies (WDR 93 and BHA) to classify the
non-capacity building interventions; available literature has yet to evaluate the cost effectiveness (most
likely high) of institutional development and support services. While basically all the sources agree on the
rating, estimated cost per DALY saved vary among countries with Guinea ranking often the highest. For
example, the average cost per DALY saved through the Extended Program of Immunization (EPI) for
low income is estimated to be on the order of US$12 (i.e. the same for Mozambique), while the Guinea-
specific study came up with US$25 [Jha, 1996]. The results presented inAppendix I indicate that about
90 percent of measurable project interventions are highly cost effective, and none falls into the low cost-
effective category.
21.   Family Planning.  A country-specific study on the cost effectiveness across contraceptive
methods (measured in terms of couple year of protection or number of births averted) is not available.
However, similar studies have been conducted in India and several Asian and Latin American countries.
Though across country comparisons are fraught with problems, sterilization has come at the top of
ranking because it involves a single operation and the effects are permanent. Due to market segmentation,
various methods do not actually compete. For example, sterilization cannot help younger couples who
wish to limit the number of children and control the spacing of births but who are certainly not ready to
end childbearing. Thus the project will support a greater choice of contraceptive methods without
systematic recourse to terminal (or hard to reverse) methods. Cost per births averted ratios and costs
estimates conducted by the UNFPA in several countries gave the following results for clinical-based
family planning services. Under the assumption that the cost of the same services are higher in Guinea by
some 10-15 percent, they still represent an affordable way to improve the livelihood of millions of young
rural couples with "unmet contraceptive needs" and their children.
Table 1. Comparative benefit and cost of selected FP Interventions
Sterilization  IUD          Pill       Condom       Average
Cost/CYP      US$0.50      US$0.80      US$2.3      US$4.0       US$1.52
Benefit/Cost      4.8         4.4          3.1         3.0          3.8
22.    Coherence with recommended minimum package of services. The main purpose of the analysis is
not to determnine a set of minimum package of services for Guinea as discussed in the 1993 WDR or the
Africa Region-specific BHA; such an exercise was done in Jha, 1996. However, what follows confirms
that the project objectives are comparable with the results of the above studies; thus demonstrating that
the project supports the two clusters of selected interventions that are known to be highly cost effective:
(a) public health interventions such as immunizations, family planning, improvements to household
environment, STI/AIDS prevention, and school-based health programs and services; and (b) selected
clinical services such as pregnancy related care, family planning and STI/AIDS prevention and control.



Project Appraisal Document                             Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                               Annex 4: Page 8 of 10
23.    Measurement of difficulties and of other benefits. Potential benefits from the population aspects
of the project that would lead to a reduction in fertility and population growth in the long run are not
readily measured through the computation of DALY gained. In general, specifying and estimating the
measurable benefits of inter-sectoral social programs such as the proposed project is problematic. While
greater information is available on the costs, benefits are multidimensional, time-bound and more difficult
to quantify. Among benefits that cannot be realistically measured are the enhanced choice of women's
empowerment through control of the timing and frequency of childbearing. For illustrative purposes,
several attempts have been made including that of comparing the future public expenditure savings from
a lower population to the costs of the family planning program. Though such exercises have resulted into
internal rates of returns of 11 percent of higher in several low income countries, they suffer from a
number of limitations which make the results quite controversial. Key underlying assumptions such as the
rate of contraceptive acceptors and the ensuing reduction of fertility, and the limited social benefits
defined in terms of public expenditure savings are difficult to substantiate and defend.
X.    Poverty Alleviation Impact
24.    Irreversible poverty impact.  Better and widespread information on population dynamics,
reproductive health matters and greater contraceptive choices, together with a reduction in infant and
child mortality, will gradually lead to an increase in
Guinea: Population Growth & Per-    the  utilization  of family  planning  services  and
! ~~capitat Income (1980-2010)
c   improve reproductive health services. The latter will
4.0    .                             attract millions  of  rural women  with  "unmet
3.5 ---------------                  contraceptive needs" whose fertility levels are higher
S 3.0 _-. .....                         than  desired.  The  recent  national  workshops
n- 5.     ...       .--conducted during the project preparation suggest that
*.// 2.0  -around 80 percent of women of reproductive age (1.8
"  - - ///    -   j million) may be in this category. In addition to direct
l    15         ///                     all benefits to current service users, there will be an
0 1-0 ....... ------    ----           inter-generational effect as existing children receive
0.5  -----    ......   ........      higher levels of investment in the development of
0.0                                  their human capital that will prepare them to face the
1989-90 . 1990-00  2000-05  - 2001 i10 !
-0.5        -                         challenges of the twenty  first century. Finally,
Thirty-Year Period Starting from 1980  economic and environmental benefits will accrue to
7-__OptimisticScenaro         i society as a whole from a reduced and manageable
__PBusinessicCase Usu          population growth. The above graph clearly illustrates
the value-added of such an outcome in terms of
growth in per-capita income over the next 10-15
years.
XI.    Sensitivity Analysis Linked to Major Risk Factors
25.    Political stability and ownership of the project. Apart from the failed military putsch of February
1996, Guinea has enjoyed a politically stable environment that had created the required business
confidence for economic and social development. Nevertheless, the 1996 event was a bitter reminder that
political instability cannot be ignored. On the borrower's commitment and ownership, there are strong
indications (see Block 2, para. 11) that the process has been made irreversible regardless of future
political events: steps are being taken to remove legal barriers prohibiting the sale and advertisement of
contraceptives; and official population and reproductive health policies have been prepared and endorsed



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                       Annex 4: Page 9 of 10
by the Government. Moreover, the participatory approach promoted by the project to make communities
participate more actively in their livelihood and well-being makes any backtracking or policy reversal
rather unlikely.
26.   Pervasive practices to slowdown population and family planning activities. "Social habit is a
second nature" and so are cultural and religious practices that do not always support active population
and family planning. Segments of the targeted audiences (the youth in particular) might be more
influenced by highly visible volunteers from extremist groups with different views. Though the
irreversibility of the process would not be called into question, these counter-events might dilute the
effort, slowdown the pace of implementation, and undermine actual results on the ground.
27.   Adverse economic downturn. Despite the recent diversification effort, the Guinean economy
remains vulnerable to external terms of trade shocks which, in turn, have an adverse effect on budgetary
revenues. Though project design has often taken the blame for slow pace of implementation, a deeper
analysis shows that lack of counterpart funds is highly correlated to project execution and performance.
So long as the country's engine of growth and foreign exchange source remain mostly bauxite and other
minerals, the potentially severe external market risks cannot be discounted.
28.   Inadequate donor support. Given its weak absorptive and institutional capacities, Guinea is a
typical case where donor coordination and support is critical to project outcomes. Though the proposed
project does not embrace a sector-wide approach, it relies quite heavily on complementary programs and
funding from other partners such as UNICEF, USAID, UNFPA, and more importantly numerous local
and international NGOs for its implementation. The potential risk in that regard could be the added
confusion partners may create by pushing their pet projects to the detriment of ownership and stakeholder
participation. As indicated earlier, every effort has been made to reduce such a risk.
XII. Environment Assessment
29.   Beneficial long term impact. This is a category C rated project with no negative environmental
impact. On quite the contrary, its downward pressure on population growth will likely have lasting
positive effects on the environment in the long run by slowing down the rapid rates of both deforestation
for agricultural needs and urbanization. In the short-term, major environmentally-friendly activities such
as basic hygiene and sanitation will be promoted by health district teams, local partners and community
awareness. Schools and in-service programs will include training of clinical staff in proper handling and
disposing of blood products and other contaminants such as needles and hazardous materials. Through
grassroots IEC initiatives, communities will be mobilized to improve the environment for better health
(1993 WDR, Chapter 2, pages 37-51).



Project Appraisal Document                                           Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                                  Annex 4: Page 10 of 10
Appendix I
Page I of I
1-June -98                                                        Guinea: Population and Reproductive Health Project
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Broad Categories of Health Inte,ventions
Target Groups and Beneficiaries                  C-E
0-4 years  5-9 years  10-24 years   M W RA    Others   ALL   Indicator
NATURE OF INTERVENTIONS
A. Communications for Behavior
Changes in Reproductive Health (BCC/R.H.)
- Information on Pop/RH by trained communicators                                                      I&4             HCE
- Information with small medias on Reprod. Health                              X            X        I&4              HCE
- Information via mass medias on Reprod. Health                                X            X        2&4              HCE
- Education on FP by trained group leaders                                     X            X       2,3&5             HCE
- Counseling on FP by trained group leaders                                    X            X        2&5              HCE
- Education on STI/AIDS by trained group leaders                               X            X       2,3&4             HCE
- Counseling on STIIAIDS by trained group leaders                              X            X        2&5              HCE
B. Reproductive Health Service
- Counseling on FP by trained providers              _         X               X            X        2&3              HCE
- Improved use of FP services in health centers                                             X        2&5              HCE
- Outreach on FP by trained distributors                                       X            X        1,2&5             CE
- Early treatment of STI by health providers                                   X            X        2&3               CE
- Childhood cluster (pertussis, polio, measles, tetanus)  X    _                                     2&3              HCE
- Integrated case management of childhood illnesses      X                _ _                        2&3               HCE
-Perinata and materal causes                             X     __                         WRA        2&3              HCE
- Access to RH care by 75% OF Guinean population                                        MWRA                           NA
C. Population & Community Participation
Involvement of NGOs in community organization                                                               ALL       NA
- Involvement of NGOs in programs implementation                   _                                         ALL       NA
- Reinforcing Safe Motherhood at community level                                                    W RA              HCE
- Reinforcing Early Childhood Programs                             X                                                  HCE
- Reinforcing Nutrition/Feeding Programs                X          X                                W RA              HCE
- Cost Sharing and financial autonomy of health centers                                                      ALL       NA
D. Institutional Devt. & Support for Services
- Provision of accurate and timely information                                                               ALL       NA
- Improve resources allocation                                                                              ALL      NA
- Improve financial resources mobilization                                                                   ALL       NA
- Decentralized preparation of annual WrkPL & Budgets                                                        ALL       NA
- Decentralized implementation of RH programs                                                                ALL       NA
- Strenghten logistics of Eds and contraceptives                                                             ALL       NA
- Strengten training and supervisory programs                                                            _  ALL        NA
- Availability of trained and supervisory personnel                                                          ALL       NA
- Quality of Reproductive Health Care at all levels                                                          ALL       NA
E. Other Interventions not classified elsewhere
C-E=     Cost Effective
HCE=    Highly Cost Effective
NA:      Not Applicable



Project Appraisal Document                     Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                     Annex 5: Page I of I
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(million US$)
Phase I                         Phase II
1999   2000  2001   2002      2003   2004    2005   2006
Project Costs
- Investment Costs    1.41    3.59   2.32   2.26    3.59    3.05    2.85   2.51
- Recurrent Costs    0.75    0.53   0.54   0.60     0.90    0.90    1.10   1.10
Total              2.16   4.12   2.86   2.86      4.49    3.95    3.95   3.61
Financing Sources
(% of total project
costs)
- IBRD/IDA           93%    96%   94%   94%         80%    90%      87%    80%
- Co-financiers       7%      4%     5%     5%       4%      8%      9%    10%
-Government           0%      1%    1%      1%      16%      3%      4%    10%
Total              100%   100%   100%  100%       100%   100%    100%   100%



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                       Annex 6: Page 1 of 8
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Guinea's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take
precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. Procurement of works, goods and
consultant services financed by the IDA credit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996 and
September 1997) and Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers
published in January 1997. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out
in accordance with Guinea's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that: (i) any
bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are
clearly specified in bidding documents; (iii) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors and
manufacturers; (iv) no eligible firms precluded from participation, regardless of nationality; (v) contracts
will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (vi) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft
standard bidding documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable. IDA's Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD) will be used for all ICB procurements. Bidding documents agreed upon by IDA and
used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in the Health and Nutrition Project (PSN) will be used for
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurements under the program. The Bank's Standard Request
for Proposal (SRFP) forms will also be used for the procurement of consultant services. One ICB
contract document and one NCB document for procurement of civil works and goods have been reviewed
and approved by IDA during appraisal and will be confirmed during negotiations. As part of the Project
Implementation Manual, the MS is preparing a draft procurement/disbursement plan; it will be reviewed
by, and agreed with, IDA during negotiations. Procurement plans will be reviewed and updated at least
one month prior to the start of each project year..
Civil Works' total cost is estimated at US$ 1.90 million for the whole four project years. Civil works
contracts financed by IDA, estimated to cost US$ 1.81 million are for the construction and rehabilitation
of health care and services facilities and other infrastructures, including women centers, youth service
and population resource centers, in the regions and in Conakry. They are estimated to cost less than US$
200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.95 million, and would be procured through
NCB procedures. Contracts for small works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 950,000, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable.
The awards would be made to the contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work,
provided they demonstrate they have the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
These contracts would mostly be for works relating to small constructions such as health posts and
replacement or rehabilitation of existing facilities in rural areas.
Goods' total cost is estimated at US$ 3.2 million, of which US$ 3.1 million will be financed by IDA, this
includes health equipment kits, hospital furniture, equipment and supplies, training and audio-visual
equipment and supplies, warehouse stacking and operational equipment, transport vehicles,
pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents and medical supplies, as well as office furniture, equipment and
consumable. Procurement will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$ 100,000 or more
and will be procured through ICB. Procurement of drugs valued at US$ 100,000 or more may be made
through LIB, up to an aggregate total of US$ 0.75 million, from non-governmental organizations which



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                        Annex 6: Page 2 of 8
specialize in drugs supply, can ensure the quality of drugs at all levels of the supply cycle, and have due
authorization from primary drugs manufacturers to supply their products. This procedure implemented in
comparable countries in the sub-region (Mauritania for instance) has proved to be cost effective and
ensured quality. The Government would otherwise have to rely either on a firm to carry out the required
testing or to make available costly equipment and highly qualified staff in the country. Procurement of
office furniture, vehicles and fuel valued at less than US$ 100,000 up to an aggregate total of US$ 0.22
million will be procured through NCB. Implementation of the program would require the purchase of
relatively small, mainly consumable items, by MS local offices, regional authorities and communities
around the country, which would be difficult and impractical to package and procure following NCB
procedures. Thus, such items (mostly pharmaceuticals, contraceptives, medical equipment, vehicle,
furniture and office equipment) which could not be grouped into ICB packages and costing less than
US$ 100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 360,000, would be procured
through the UNICEF Procurement and Assembly Center (UNIPAC) and/or through the Inter-Agency
Procurement Services of the UNDP (IAPSO) and/or UNFPA; this would be the most economical and
efficient way of procuring small quantities, in particular in case of emergency. Procurement of small
equipment, furniture and vehicles spare parts costing less than US$ 20,000 equivalent per contract up to
an aggregate of US$ 220,000 may be procured through prudent national shopping (for items available
locally) up to US$ 120,000, or up to US$ 100,000 through international shopping (for those goods not
available on the national market) on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified
suppliers. Spare parts, operating expenditures, minor off-the-shelf items, pharmaceuticals and other
proprietary items costing less than US$ 5,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US 50,000
equivalent, may be procured directly from manufacturers and authorized local distributors.
Population Support Fund (PSF) The PSF (US$0.78million) will finance activities, operations and
micro-projects that meet the criteria established in a Procedural Manual. The PSF aims at supporting
demand -driven activities, projects solicited by beneficiairies that have demonstrated their commitment to
objectives supported by the PSF. Beneficiaries will be selected among youth or women's groups,
associations, communities, cooperatives and indigenous NGOs. In general, the PSF will finance activities
in the domains of IEC and safer practices; promotion of family planning and safe motherhood, training
and institutional support and promotion of women's status. The PSF will be managed by an Executive
Selection Committee (ESC) with equal representation from public and private social sectors and the
Government. Applications and proposals will be evaluated for technical content and eligibility criteria
specified in the PSF procedural manual and presented to the ESC for approval. The first four requests for
PSF financing would be sent to IDA for prior review. It is expected that financial support will average
about US$5,000, with a maximum of US$ 15,000 per grant. Contracts from the Fund will be managed by
the PSF/NGO specialist at the "Bureau de Coordination Population et Sante ".
Consultants', Training and IEC Services financed by IDA would be for: (I) studies, preparation of
bidding documents, works supervision, data collection, design and operation of accounting systems,
audits and impact analysis; (ii) short term consultancies for specific technical matters such as planning,
contractual services and training courses design; (iii) training, locally and overseas, of health personnel
staff, and (iv) behavioral change communication related services including the design, production and
distribution/broadcasting of messages and information campaigns and sessions. Consultants financed by
IDA, totaling US$ 3.1 million, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January, 1997 and revised in
September 1997. It will be addressed through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which
the selection will be based on Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of
the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided. For audits and architectural and
engineering services of a standard nature the Least-Cost Selection (i) will be the most appropriate



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 6: Page 3 of 8
method -- the firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided its technical proposal received the
minimum mark required. Consultants services for assistance on drug procurement and logistics services,
for revision and design of training curricula and modules, and for the design, testing and
production/edition of messages on small and mass media (estimated at less than US$100,000 per contract
up to an aggregate of US$ 250,000) would be based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ), taking into
account the consultants' experience and competence relevant to the assignment. Single Source Selection
(SSS) will be exceptionally used for the management of the initial training of trainers (TOT), the
broadcasting of messages through national (TV and Radio) and regional mass media (Radios rurales) and
the performance of the Demographic and Health Survey (1998 DHS). Services for short-term or ad hoc
consultancies, lectures and small studies which can be delivered by Individual Consultants will be
selected through comparison of qualifications against job description requirements among those
expressing interest in the assignment or those approached directly. For training abroad and in-country, the
program -- containing names of candidates, cost estimates, content of the courses, periods of training,
institution selection -- would be reviewed by IDA annually.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national individual
consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated under US$ 100,000 may be comprised entirely of national
consultants if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration. The
Standard Request for Proposal (SRFP) forms as developed by the Bank will be used for the appointment
of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, simple missions of standard
nature i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by individual consultants or firms. The
Government will be briefed during negotiations about the special features of the new guidelines, in
particular with regards to advertisement and public bid opening.
IDA Review. All contracts for construction of civil works and purchase of goods above the threshold
value of US$ 100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The use of IDA's SBD would
expedite considerably the prior review process as IDA review would primarily focus on invitation to bid,
bid data sheet, contract data, technical specifications, bill of quantities/schedule of requirements and other
contract-specific items. The review process would cover about 65 percent of the total value of the
amount contracted for goods and about 40 percent of the amount contracted for civil works. Selective
post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply to about one in three contracts.
Draft standard bidding documents for NCB will be reviewed by and agreed upon with IDA during
negotiations. For consultant services, prior review will include the review of budgets, short-lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and draft contracts. Prior IDA
review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to
cost less than US$ 100,000 and US$ 50,000 equivalent respectively. However, the exception to prior
IDA review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-
source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value above the prior review threshold. For consultant contracts estimated above
US$ 200,000, opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-
objection to the technical evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 and more
than US$ 100,000 the borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening
the financial proposals. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be
maintained by the borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The
MS/BCPS will be required to maintain all relevant procurement documentation for subsequent review by
IDA. The MS/BCPS will submit to IDA periodic procurement schedules detailing each procurement in
progress and completed as part of the normal project reporting exercise.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                         Annex 6: Page 4 of 8
Procurement under the program will be handled by the Direction des Infrastructures, de l 'Equipemnt et
de la Maintenance (DIEM) existing in the MS, which will assist the BCPS, using skills and competencies
built under the on-going project (PSN), with the support of short-term consultants as needed. The design
and supervision of all civil works (construction and rehabilitation) financed by the IDA credit will be
carried out by consulting firms. This arrangement will be the same as for the current project (PSN) which
proved to be suitable for even a much larger infrastructure component. The decentralized directorates of
the MS will be responsible for the overall activity planning in the regions, the identification and
availability of land (if required), the preparation of equipment lists and any other information needed by
DIEM to prepare bidding documents for the procurement of goods, or terms of reference for the selection
of consultants as well as the evaluation of their perforrnance from the technical point of view. All
technical specifications for medical equipment are currently being prepared by a specialized consulting
firm and will be submitted to IDA for review before negotiations. Information related to civil works will
be transmitted by the DIEM to the firm(s) in charge of the preparation of detailed design and bidding
documents for works. Also, to facilitate implementation, small and urgent procurement may be done
through IAPSO and through UNIPAC or other non-governmental organizations (as long as it is the least
cost solution) -- in accordance with the provisions described below for the procurement of goods. For all
other procurement handled by the DIEM, the procurement methods described below and summarized in
Table A will apply.



Project Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                            Annex 6: Page 5 of 8
Table A: Program Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent including taxes, duties and contingencies)
Expenditure Category     Procurement Method                                Total Cost
(incl. contingencies)
ICB       NCB       Other     N.B.F
1. Works                              0.96      0.95                         1.91
(0.90)    (0.90)                       (1.81)
1.1 health infrastructures   -        0.53      0.60                         1.13
(0.51)    (0.57)                       (1.08)
1.2 other civil works       -         0.42      0.35        -                0.7
(0.40)    (0.33)                       (0.73)
2. Goods                   1.47       0.22       1.38      0.08              3.15
(1.47)    (0.22)     (1.38)                      (3.07)
2.1 medical equipment      0.60        -        0.26        -                0.86
(0.60)               (0.26)                      (0.86)
2.2 equipment/furniture,   0.72       0.22      0.13       0.08              1.15
vehicles               (0.72)    (0.22)     (0.13)                       (1.05)
2.3 pharmaceuticals/drugs,    0.15     -        0.99         -               1.14
contraceptives             (0.15)               (0.99)                      (1.14)
3. Services                                     3.05                         3.05
(3.05)                      (3.05)
3.1 CW engineer/arch,        -         -        0.80        -                0.80
management/computer                             (0.80)                      (0.80)
consultancies and audit
3.2 Training, studies,       -         -        0.66        -                0.66
contractual services,                           (0.66)                      (0.66)
short term consultancies
3.3 IEC/Media                -         -         1.60                        1.60
(160)                       (1.60)
4. Miscellaneous                                3.60       0.03              3.63
(3.38)                      (3.38)
4.1 operating costs          -         -        2.22       0.03              2.25
(2.00)                      (2.00)
4.2 PSF Grants               -         -        0.78                         0.78
(0.78)                      (0.78)
4.3 PPF refinancing          -         -        0.60        -                0.60
(0.60)                      (0.60)
Total Costs                1.47       1.17      8.98                         11.73
Total Financed by IDA      (1.47)    (1.12)     (8.71)     0.11             (11.30)
Note: NBF = Not Bank-financed. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by
the Bank loan/IDA credit.
Total may not add up due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                             Annex 6: Page 6 of 8
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Value             Procurement             Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threshold)                 Methods                 Prior Review *
1ef 5 '       ',e,,,,; .     ; ________________________'____   I CB NCB    Other
above US$200,000       X                            Prior IDA review
above US$100,000               X                    Prior IDA review
below US$100,000               X   X                Post review . Aggregate
above US$50,000                                     amount: US$350,000
below US$50,000                        X            Post review . Aggregate
_______________________ _______ _______ ____________ amount: US$950,000
above US$100,000       X                            Prior IDA review
above US$100,000                       LIB for      Prior IDA review
procurement  Aggregate amount:
of drugs     US$750,000
below US$100,000               X                    Post review . Aggregate
above US$20,000                                     amount: US$220,000
below US$100,000                       IAPSO or     Post review.
Contraceptives and                    UNIPAC        Aggregate amount:
Medical equipment                                   US$360,000
below US$20,000                        X            Post review aggregate
amount for shopping:
National: US$120,000
L______________________    _______    ______  ____________  International:   US$100,000
below US$5,000 direct                  X            Post review. Aggregate
purchase from                                       amount: US$50,000
manufacturers or
authorized dealers
i3. itService0-0.CNj77s7 77 77  Selection Methods
All TORs or sole source contracts are subject to IDA prior review
Audit, civil works   N/A                 Least Cost Selection        Prior Review
design/supervision
Firms             Above US$200,000       Quality and Cost Based      -Prior Review + Review of
Selection (QCBS)            Technical Evaluation Report
Drugs logistics,  Above US$100,000                                   before opening financial
Design training   Below US$200,000                                   proposal
curricula,                               Consultants' Qualifications  -Prior Review + (i)
Media/IEC         Below US$100,000.     (CQ)                         notification of Technical
Evaluation scores,
(ii) combined evaluation
report
Consultants' Qualifications CQ   Post Review
TOT, Media, DHS   N/A                    Single Source Selection     Prior Review
N/A                    Single Source Selection     Prior Review
Individuals       Above US$50,000        Section V of Consultants    Prior Review
Below US$50,000       Guidelines                   Post Review



Project Appraisal Document                 Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                 Annex 6: Page 7 of 8
Conditions for negotiations are mentioned in PAD - section G. During negotiations, agreement
will be reached on the proper monitoring of procurement, as well as the standard procurement
documents to be used for NCB. The Government will give assurance at negotiations that it will:
(a) use the Program Implementation Manual for Project Implementation; (b) use the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for ICB; (c) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements
outlined in the above documents; and (d) review the procurement plan and procurement
arrangements each year (immediately after the annual review with IDA and before the beginning of
the next fiscal year). During implementation, all bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and
draft contracts transmitted to IDA for review will contain an updated copy of the procurement
planning. Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    prompt recording of contract award information by the Borrower; and
(b)   semi-annual reports to the Bank by the Borrower indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances for
contingencies; (ii) revised timing of estimated procurement actions, including experience with
completion time and completion cost for individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate
limits on specified methods of procurement.
A detailed procurement plan for works, goods and services to be procured under the project was
prepared and will be agreed during negotiations. It will be updated and reviewed on a regular basis
during annual reviews. The Government will give assurance at negotiations that it will take the
necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time
periods:
Maximum number of weeks
* Preparation of bidding documents   4 (12 for large contracts)
* Preparation of bids by bidders     4 (6 for ICB)
* Bid evaluation                     2 (4 for large contracts)
* Signature of contracts             2
* Payments                           4
Disbursement
The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA credit will be disbursed over a
period of five years (from 1998 to 2003), with a closing date of June 30, 2003. The estimated
disbursement schedule is shown in Table D. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit
will be fully documented, except for contracts not subject to prior review by IDA. For the rest,
disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the head of the
BCPS/MS. Supporting documentation will be retained by BCPS/MS and will be available for
review as requested by IDA supervision missions and program auditors.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                        Annex 6: Page 8 of 8
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in US$   Amounts in       Financing
million         SDR          Percentage
1. Works                                      1.70           1.30           95%
2. Goods (including medical equipment,        2.90           2.20      100% of foreign
drugs, reagents, office equipment, vehicles,                           and 95% of
and furniture)                                                         local
expenditures
3. Services (including long term TA, short    2.88           2.10           100%
term consultancy, civil works contract
management and training)
4. PSF Matching Grants                       0.74.           0.50      100% of
amounts
________________________________________                       disbursed
5. Operating Costsl/                          1.88           1.40           90%
6. Refunding of PPF Advance                   0.60           0.50
7. Unallocated                                0.60           0.50
Total IDA credit                             11.30           8.50
1/    Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of
program implementation, management and supervision, including office supplies, office
equipment and vehicles operation and maintenance, contractual services and travel and
allowances including those for trainers and trainees, but excluding salaries of officials of
the borrower's civil service.
Table D: Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (US$ million)
IDA        1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Fiscal Year
Annual          1.00    3.00    3.50      2.30     1.50
Cumulative      1.00    4.00     7.50     9.80    11.30
Cumulative       11%     35%     66%      88%      1 00%
A Special Account will be opened for the IDA credit and maintained with a commercial bank,
acceptable to IDA. The maximum balance in the Special Account will be US$750,000, which will
cover about 4 months of expenditures, to be disbursed from the Special Account.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                       Annex 7: Page I of I
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                        Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
121,000               98,000
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  10 months
First Bank mission (identification)        06/15/97               06/15/97
Appraisal mission departure                11/10/97               02/09/98
Negotiations                               03/07/98               06/16/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness               12/24/98               12/24/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Health of Guinea
Preparation assistance: 1) Japanese Grant: $400,000
2) PPF: $600,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
M. Dia        Country Director           D. Webber              Sr.Financial Mgmt. Spec.
0. Jah        Operations Analyst         L. Strengerowski-      Disbursement Analyst
Feldblyum
B. Herz,      Adviser
G.Tschannerl  Principal Operations Officer  Mpoy-Kamulayi,      Sr. Counsel
0. Pannenborg  Lead Specialist           S. Boubacar            Sr. Counsel
C. Walker.    Lead Specialist
F. Agueh,     Operations Manager         S. Ben-Halima          Task Team Leader
N. Burnett     Sector Manager            W. Ravaonoromalala    Consultant
H. Burmeister  Sr. Projects Officer      Cherif Diallo          Consultant
R. Crowne     Projects Officer           J. May                 Consultant
J. Harrington,  Sr. Population Specialist  D. Diarra-Kambou     Consultant
B. Abeille    Sr. Procurment Specialist    H. Afsar             Administrative Asst.
E. Jarawan    Sr. Health Specialist      A. Kamau               Task Team Assistant
A. Tinker     Principal Health Specialist   S. V. Nakhavanit    Task Team Assistant
S. Luculescu    Principal Health Specialist
E. Locatelli    Field Coordinator



Project Appraisal Document                 Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                   Annex 8: Page I of 3
Annex 8: Documents in the Project Files*
A. Documents related to Project Implementation Plan
1.    Population and Reproductive Health Project (reference document for implementation
planning). "Evolution de la Population Guineenne par prefecture et estimation de la
population desjeunes et femmes en dge de procreer, RGPH 1983 et 1996" Republic of
Guinea. October 1997.
2.    Population and Reproductive Health Project (Preparation phase). "Composantes, sous -
composantes - activites, dchdancier de realisation" Republic of Guinea.  November
1997.
3.     Population and Reproductive Health Project (Preparation phase). "Liste et categories
des infrastructures a construire, a rehabiliter et a renover selon le nombre total d'
habitants" Republic of Guinea. November 1997.
4.    Analyse dconomique du projet par Goudoussy Balde, Novembre 1997.
5.     "Manuel de procedures de gestion " par Mohamed Sano, Avril 1998.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Better Health of Africa 1994
World Bank Development Report "Investing in Health"1998.
World Bank missions
* *    Poverty assessment in Guinea
1.    Pre-identification: "Document technique de reference pour la phase de prdparation"
March 1997.
2.    Participatory Project Identification and Planning :"Rapport des ateliers de planifi cation
ZOPP", June 1997.
3.    Forecasting contraceptive commodities and recommendations for Logistic systems,
September 1997.
4.    Pre-appraisal document: "Document de travail pour la description detaillee du projet",
October 1997.
5.    Comments on economic analysis, informations to be collected by the local consultant,
December 1997.
External agencies
1.    USAID/GUINEA   HEALTH   PROJECT/MOH,  Guinea  Pharmaceutical  Sector
Assessment (draft), May 1995.



Project Appraisal Document                Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                Annex 8: Page 2 of 3
2.    PSI-GUINEE, PROJET FAMPOP: "Bilan Statistique (1992-1995) ", December 1995.
3.    PSI-GUINEE, Evaluation of Guinea Family Planning Options Project (FAMPOP),
February 1996.
4.    UNICEF-GUINEA, "Plan d'Operations Sectoriel, 1997-2001 " July 1996.
5.    GTZ, in collaboration with UNICEF-GUINEA: "Evaluation du system de participation
communautaire du Programme PEV/SSP/ME, Rapport Final" September 1996.
6.    ASSOCIATION GUINEENNE POUR LE BIEN-ETRE FAMILIAL (AGBEF): "Plan
Triennal 1997- 1999 "
7.    UNFPA-GUINEA,  "Sous-programme:  Sante  de  la  Reproduction/Planification
Familiale" March 1997.
8.    USAID, The Evaluation Project: Handbook of Indicators for Family Planning Evaluation.
9.    Columbia University in the City of New York, CPFH: The Design and Evaluation of
Maternal Mortality    Programs.
C. Other
1.    Reports of consultative workshops conducted during Project preparation , June -
September 1997.
1.1.   Lamarana Diallo: "Rapports des 21 ateliers consultatifs regionaux ex&cutks par
l 'AGBEF'
1.2.   Bandian Sidime and Munze Mey Atu: "Rapport de Synthese des Ateliers Consultatifs
Regionaux "
2.    Executive summaries of base line studies for the Population and Reproductive
Health Project:
2.1.   Fode Bangaly Keita: "Obstacles a l'acceptation des methodes modernes de Planning
Familial ".
2.2.   Boubacar Sylla and Daniel Tolno: "Connaissances, Attitudes et Pratiques des jeunes
Guineens en Sante de la   Reproduction ".
2.3.   Malick Kouyate:  "Connaissances, Attitudes et Pratiques en Planning Familial des
leaders d'opinion et   d&cideurs Guineens ".
2.4.  Ibrahim Bah-Lalya: "Evaluation des programmes d' Education non formelle pour
integrer la Santk de la Reproduction ".



Project Appraisal Document                 Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                  Annex 8: Page 3 of 3
2.5.   Bouba Toure: "Etude narrative de la Mortalite Maternelle en Guinee, propositions pour
la prevention ".
2.6.   Mohamed Sano: "Etude narrative sur les MST/VIH/SIDA en Guinie, propositions pour
la prevention ".
2.7.   Saran Toure:  "Personnes-relais, associations et medias: mrthodes et strategie de
communication ".
2.8.   Laurent Kamano:  "Etude retrospective du Cadre Institutionnel de la Politique et
Programme de Population".
2.9.   Diallo Fofana Fatoumata and Hyjazi Yolande: " Revue de la literature en Santi de la
reproduction en     Guinee "
3 .    Morissanda Kouyate, CPTAFE: "Plan d'Action 1998-2002, Dec. 1997
D. Key documents by Government of Guinea
1. "Declaration de Politique de Population, Version revisee, Septembre 1996".
2. "Programme National de Population, programme prioritaire 1997-2001 "
3. "Forum National de la Sante: Analyse de la situation, perspectives, Mai 1997"
4. "Nornes et procedures de la Sante de la Reproduction, Draft, Fevrier 1997"
5. "Sante de la Reproduction, Strategie IEC, Juin 1996"
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Report                                                                                                                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                                                                                                               Annex 9: Page 1 of 2
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                   Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Credit      Year           Borrower                    Purpose
No.                                                                         IBRD       IDA      Cancellations   Undisbursed   Orig        Frm Rev'd       Dev Obj        Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 43
Active Loans
GN-PE-1059    IDA 21120    1990  GOVT OF GUINEA               SECOND URBAN                     0.00       57.00         0.00            4.08          .60           0.00        S              S
GN-PE-1043    IDA 24160    1993  GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA   POWER II                               0.00       50.00         0.00            5.00         3.65           3.65        U              U
GN-PE-1068    IDA 24070    1993  GOVT OF GUINEA               AGR.EXPORT PROMOTION             0.00       20.80         0.00           12.07         8.43           0.00        S              S
GN-PE-1070    IDA 25740    1994  GOVERNMENT                   HEALTH/NUT.SCTR.                 0.00       24.60         0.00           14.70         3.00           2.70        S              S
GN-PE-1087    IDA 27190    1995  GOVERNMENT                   EQUITY AND SCHOOL IM             0.00       42.50         0.00           28.53         12.60          0.00       HS              S
GN-PE-1078    IDA 26530    1995  GOVERNMENT                   FINANCIAL SECTOR                 0.00       23.00         0.00            1.56         1.02           0.00        S              S
GN-PE-1077    IDA 28740    1996  GOVERNMENT                   MIN SECT INV PROMOT              0.00       12.20         0.00            7.74         3.19           0.00        S              S
GN-PE-1081    IDA 28390    1996  GOVERNMENT                   AGRIC SERVICES                   0.00       35.00         0.00           22.57          .98           0.00        S               S
GN-PE-1090    IDA 27870    1996  GOVERNMENT                   HIGHER EDUCATION MAN             0.00       6.60          0.00            4.82         2.99           2.28        U              U
GN-PE-1075    IDA N0170    1997  GOVERNMENT                   THIRD WATER SUPPLY               0.00       25.00         0.00           23.98          .79           0.00        S              S
GN-PE-49690   IDA 30210    1998  GOVERNMENT                   PUB.EXP.MNG.ADJ.CRD              0.00       70.00         0.00           24.40         3.09           0.00        S              S
Total                                                                                          0.00      366.70         0.00           149.45        40.34          8.63
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  211.85               810.18            1,022.03
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                92.03              92.03
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  366.70               671.82            1,038.52
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :              149.45                   .14             149.59
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U 5 unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Project Appraisal Report                                                                Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                                                 Annex 9: Page 2 of 2
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollars Million)
Committed                                          Disbursed
IFC                                             IFC
FY Approval      Company       Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic      Loan       Equity           Quasi             Partic
1988       Aurifere        0.00      0.00      4.59       0.00       0.00        0.00            4.59               0.00
1993       SGHI            2.77      .56        .21       0.00       2.77         .56             .21               0.00
1994       Ciments         .79       0.00       0.00      0.00        .79        0.00            0.00               0.00
Guinee
1998       SEF Agro        .20       0.00       0.00      0.00        .20        0.00             0.00              0.00
Total Portfolio:        3.76      .56       4.80       0.00       3.76         .56             4.80              0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:      0.00    .00        0.00       0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                                  Annex 10: Page 1 of 2
Guinea at a glance                                                                8119197
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Guinea     Africa  Income       Development diamond'
Populabon mid-1996 (millions)                           6.8       600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                              560        490      500Lfe expectancy
GNP 1996 (biions US$)                                 3.8       294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Populaion (Ai)                                         2.7       2.7       1.7    1 GNP                             Gross
Labor force (Y.)                                        2.4       2.6       1.7                                     Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            rcapita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               ..
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                  30         31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        44         52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               128         92       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (XO of children under 5)            18
Access to safe water (% of population)                  49         47       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    76         43       34                Guinea
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    50         72      105
Male                                                  59         78      112                Low4ncome group
Female                                                33         65       98    1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratlos*
GOP (billons US$)                               ..       ..       3.7       4.0   1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   .        ..      14.5      13.0    i        Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..       ..      21.7      18.9    i
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..       ..      10.1      10.0
Gross national savings/GOP                      ..       ..       6.2       5.4
Current account balance/GOP                     ..       ..      -8.2      -7.6    .
Interest payments/GDP                           ..       ..       1.1       1.6     Savings                     Investment
Total debtWGDP                                  ..       ..      87.2     73.0
Total debt service/exports                     ..        ..      22.4     32.1
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..      56.6
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        ..    260.1                            Indebtedness
i975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997405     :
(average annual growth)                                                                 -     Guinea
GOP                                    ..     4.0       4.4       4.5       5.0          __
GNP per capita                                1.8       1.3       1.3     5605                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..      3.0      11.3      -3.2      7.6    i
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1988      1995      1996    i
(X of GDP)                                                                        i Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                     ..       ..      24.5     24.7        - 'o
Industry                                       ..        ..      34.0     33.9         ___
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..       4.7   *  4.6    !   j\
Services                                                         41.5     41.4    1'o rT
Prvate consumption                             ..        ..      81.5     81.9    .20 '
General govemment consumption                  ..        ..       8.4      8.1    |GDI    I+ GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..        ..      26.1     21.9    !
1975-85  1986-96      1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agnculture                                      ..      4.2       3.5       5.0     is
Industry                    ,                          2.6        3.7      4.3      sA
Manufacturing                                 ..      4.1       3.1       3.0
Services                                       ..  4.7   5.2  3.8                                   A           AA
Private consumption                             .      3.8        1.7      5.2        s1               93          96
General govemment consumption                  ..       4.6       3.3      2.8
Gross domestic investment                       ..     2.1        7.4      44       .10 l
Imports of goods and services                   ..      1.6       5.3     -8.0                   Exports       Im s
Gross national product                                  4.6       4.2      4.2
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                         Project Title: Population and Reproductive Health
Country: Guinea                                                                                    Annex 10: Page 2 of 2
Guinea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995     1996       I
Domestic prices                                                                       Infation (%)
(% change)                                                                           30 -
Consumer prices                                 ..        ..       5.8       5.0    !
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..      ..        5.2       3.8
Govemment finance
(% of GOP)                                                                            0
Currentrevenue                                  ..        ..      11.8      10.2             9     92   93   94   95   95
Current budget balance                           ,.       ..       2.6       1.3                -GOP def. * ICPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..        ..      -6.0      -6.0
TRADE
1978     1985       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..        ..       747      696      900
Other metals                                   ..       ..       299       324      9o0
Aluminum                                       .         ..      110       104 
Manufactures                                   ..       ..         0         0      N
Total imports (cif)                             ..       ..        809      714      400           d
Food                                                    ..        77        76      300
Fuel and-energy                                ..       ..        82       87      2
10O
Capital goods                                  ..       ..        88        78       0
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..         93       90           90  91  92  93  94  ff  96
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..        126      124                  a Exports    glmports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        ..      ..         74       73
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1996     1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                    ..      ..        798      746       0
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..       960      866
Resource balance                                ..        ..      -162     -120
Net income                                                        -3        18        .
Net current transfers                                              -7       131
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers             ..        ..      -305      -300
Financing items (net)                                              318      273
Changes in net reserves                         -3       -2        -13       27      -15-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)              0        0        198      199
Conversion rate (locaL4US$)                   20.3     24.3      979.6    998.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions US$)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          774    1,466       3,242    2,887                       G
IBRD                                         68        55          0        0    ,              F
IDA                                           0       117       847       863                    173
Total debt service                              39       72        181      242
IBRD                                          8         8          0        0
IDA                                           0         1          8       11
Composition of net resource flows                                                  .
Official grants                                3 4                          0 3         10r24
Official creditors                           54        48         70       37                                   C
Prvate creditors          *                   4        18        -15       -6                                   as
Foreign direct investment                     0         1          ..       0
Portfolio equity                               0        0          ..       0    i                      679
World Bank program
Commitments                                  21        33        43        54      A - IBRO                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        22        59        47       B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                          2         s          2        4      C - IMF                     C - Shart-erm
Netflows                                      -2       17        57        43    1
Interest payments                             6         4          6        7
Net transfers                                 -8       12         51       36
Development Economics                                                                                                  8/19/97



'     Q    W  .          ?g   Ni    IUdUUt Ut UUINEE
Cr  i   lili   Travail- Jus*x s.SoBd"
w  ;  7 VCEID     086 MARS 1998   LI 3
MINISTERE DU PLANET ET
DE LA COOPERATION                         AFWRIC
N llt 0     04  3  ...MPCICAB .....9
C7
PROJET POPULATION ET SANTE GENESIQUE    r   ^
Lettre de politique                     ,
Monsieur le President de la Banque Mondiale,
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Objet: Lettre de Politique de Diveloppement
Refarence: Projet Population et Sante Genisique (PPSG)
en R6publique de Guinee.
Cher Monsieur,
La Loi Fondamentale, adoptee le 23 decembre 1990, proclame l'adhesion de la Guinie
aux principes, droits et devoirs etablis par la Declaration Universelle des Droits de 1'Homme et
la Charte Africaine des Droits de l'Homme et des Peuples. Le droit a la sante et le devoir pour
l'Etat de promouvoir le bien-etre des citoyens y sont reaffirmes. Faisant suite a la lettre de
Monsieur le Ministre de la Sant6, que je vous avais transmise en juillet 1996, la presente lettre
de politique de d6veloppement met en exergue les contraintes majeures rencontrees dans les
domaines de la population et de la sante de la reproduction, et les strategies que le
Gouvemement se propose de mettre en oeuvre pour y faire face. Ce cadre strat6gique sera
utilis6 par le Gouvernement comme support a la conception et a la mise en oeuvre du Projet de
Population et Sant6 Genesique propose au financement de l'IDA.
Contexte et expos6 des motifs
Malgre tous les atouts et avantages comparatifs que mli conferent les potentia1it6s du
pays, le developpement de la Guinee se heurte a des contraintes qui font qu'elle demeure
classee parmi les PMA (pays les moins avances), avec un fiible niveau de developpement
humain Parmi ces contraintes, figure la croissance demographique rapide qui, par la pression
qu'elle exerce sur les ressources, peut compromettre la mise en oeuvre d'un d6veloppement
durable. En effet, les gains de population, s'ils peuvent etre source de progres, peuvent
neanmoins constituer un fardeau, car le besoin d'amelioration des conditions de vie de la
population exdgera des investissements de plus en plus lourds en me_temps que deviendra de
plus en plus sensible l'impact sur la d6gradation de 1'environnement
BP 221 - T(dl A -1 ;2 -6 Y F:=- - di  a rQO (Thnrler'i  r,,;



2.
En outre, au stade actuel du developpement economique de la Guinee, avec un taux de
croissance economique de 4,5% dii PM en moyenne par an - que l'on espere faire passer a
5,8% durant la p6riode 1997-2010 -- et une croissance demographique annuelle de 2,8%, le
PM3 par tete ne croitrait qu'a un rythme de 1,2% par an. Or pour envisager une amelioration
sigaificative du niveau de vie des populations, il faudrait que la croissance economique soit au
moms le double de la croissance demographique. C'est pourquoi le Gouvernement a adopte en
juin 1992 la Declaration de Politique de Population pour la Guinee (DPPG), dont le document
de Politique de Developpement Sectoriel, qui en est la suite logique, a ete revis6e en septembre
1996, suite aux recommandations de la Conference du Caire de 1994 sur la Population et le
Developpement (CIPD).
En novembre 1991, faisant le bilan des actions entreprises depuis 1984, ann6e de la
Conf6rence Nationale de la Sante, le Gouvemement a promulgu6 une nouvelle Declaration de
Politique Sanitaire. Cette declaration stipulait deja que la politique sanitaire visera a ameliorer
la sante de l'ensemble de la population par la reduction de la morbidit6 et de la mortalite en
mettant l'accent sur les groupes vuln6rables, notamment les femmes et les enfants. nI etait aussi
precise que l'objectif de cette politique etait de renforcer la disponibilite, l'accessibilite, la
qualit6 et l'efficacite des services de sante et qu'il fallait envisager des mesures tendant a
controler la croissance demographique, ce qui a ete confirm6 par la promulgation de la
politique de population en mai 1992.
En mai 1997, enfm, le Forum National de la Sante a permis d'obtenir un consensus sur
l'analyse de la situation du systeme de sante, le document de politique sanitaire et les axes
prioritaires d'intervention pour la periode 1998-2010. II en ressort que malgr6 les progres
accomplis ces demieres ann6es, l'etat sanitaire des populations guineennes est globalement
mauvais. En effet, les taux de mortalite infantile (137 pour mile), de mortalite infanto-juvnhle
(232 pour mille), de mortalite maternelle (respectivement 500 et 900 pour 100.000 naissances
vivantes a Conakry et en Moyenne Guinee), sont parmi les plus eleves en Afrique
subsaharienne, tandis que 1'esperance de vie a la naissance est l'une des plus basse: 47 ans. La
situation nutritionnelle, principalement des femmes enceintes et des enfants, pose de grands
problemes se traduisant par le faible poids a la naissance, la malnutriion aigue et chronique et
la carence en micronutriments. La situation epidemiologique du pays se caracterise par la
predominance des maladie infectieuses et parasitaires et la persistance et/ou la resurgence de
certaines endemies autrefois maitris6es, a 1'exception de l'onchocercose et de la lepre qui sont
heureusement en regression. De janvier 1987 a juin 1996, 2.542 cas de SIDA out et6
enregistres. La tranche d'age la plus touchee est celle de 20 a 39 ans. Ceci traduit la r6alit6 de
la menace y9ur le pays, car ce sont les adolescents et les adultes jeunes qui sont les plus
concernes.K  A



3.
Objectifs et strategie de mise en oeuvre
Le programme
Considerant que ces contraintes constituent un handicap majeur au developpement de
la Guinee, le Gouvemement a defni, a travers les documents de politiques sectorielles de la
population et de la sante, les objectifs qui permettront d'ameliorer le bien-etre de la population,
de pr6venir les risques lies a la sante de la reproduction et de reduire la morbidit6 et la
mortalite parmi les groupes vulnerables que sont les enfants, les femmes en age de procr6er et
lesjeunes ages de moins de vingt ciaq ans. Ces objectifs, s'ils etaient atteints, devraient aboutir
concretement a la reduction des trois mortalites majeures - imnti1e, juvetile et matenelle -
grice a (i) un ralentissement de la croissance demographique, (ii) des comportements et
pratiques adequats et (iii) une am6lioration des services de sant6 de la reproduction et de sante
infntile et juvenile.
Pour atteindre ces objectifs de developpement, nous nous proposons de mettre en
place, avec I'appui des bailleurs de fonds, parmi lesquels nous esperons que 1'Il)A sera un
partenaire majeur, un programme a long terme, lequel comportera trois phases et se terminera
en 2010. Cet horizon correspond d'ailleurs a celui du programme de developpement a long
terme defini par le Gouvemement dans "La Guinee, Vision 2010", et dont les Politiques
Sectorielles de Population et de Sante constituent une part importante. La premiere phase qui
debute le programme permettra (i) la mise en place des cadres de fonctionnement et des
processus, et (ii) l'execution des activit6s prioritaires definies selon les groupes clbles, les
domaines d'intervention et les zones geographiques. Cette premiere phase constitue le Projet
Population et Sante Genesique (PPSG) decrit plus amplement ci-dessous. La deuxieme phase
consolidera les activit6s et les 6tendra a d'autres domaines, cibles et zones. Enfin, la troisieme
phase devra permettre d'assurer la continuit6 et la p6rennisation technique, administrative et
financiere du programme.
Premiere phase du programme: Le Projet Population et Sante Genesique (PPSG)
Les objectifs specifiques du projet sont: (1) I'am6lioration de la sensibilisation sur les
questions de population et la promotion des comportements et pratiques adequats et sans
danger; (2) l'amelioration de la qualite des services prioritaires de sant6 de la reproduction
(pour en augmenter l'utilisation par les groupes cibles) et (3) le renforcement institutionnel
pour gerer et coordonner les programmes de population et de sante de la reproduction.
Sensibilisation sur les questions de population et developpement. Alors que les
prestations de planification familiale sont actuellement disponibles dans pres du tiers des
centres de sante, la strategie d'Iuformation, Education et Communication (IEC) concue pour
sdmuler et entretenir la demande pour ces services, n'a pas beneficie d'un renforcement
proportionneL Par ailleurs, suite a la mise en place des recommandations de la Conference du
Caire, La strategie d'EC aura besoin d'etre restructuree pour repondre aux besoins specifiques
des groupes cible-g: tj3r



4.
C'est ainsi que l'information, qui ameliore la sensi'biisation - poiat de depart du changement
de comportement - sera modifiee pour atteindre en premier les personnes sources d'autorit6
(chefs de famille et decideurs) et ,es autres sources d'information reconnues que sont les
leaders d'opinion dans chaque couche sociale. Quant au plaidoyer aupres des d6cideurs, il est
encore plus recent en Guin6e, puisque introduit en 1996, et aura donc besoin d'etre developpe.
Sur le plan lgaI les contraiates juridiques a l'utfflistion des methodes de contraception
devraient etre levees lors de la session des lois du Parlement en avril 1998. C'est en effet a ce
moment que le Code de la Famille devrait etre adopte sur recommandation de la Commission
Sociale et des Lois de l'Assemblee Nationale. Par ailleurs, ayant constat6 I'ampleur de la
meconnaissance des femmes de leurs droits fondamentaux et le faible taux de saisine (d6p6t de
plaintes) qui en decoule, le Gouvemement a pris les mesures necessaires qui ont abouti a la
promulgation d'un decret presidentiel portant creation d'une structure relevant du Ministere
des Affaires Sociales denommee "cliniques d'assistance juridique aux femmes". Le programme
de "communication pour le changement de comportement" en matiere de sante de la
reproduction conportera deux sous-programmes. En ce qui conceme le sous-programme
Plaidoyer, le premier volet, qui est prioritaire, concerne les jeunes qui plaident pour les jeumes,
avec pour themes centraux la prevention des MSTISIDA, l'6ducation a la vie familiale (EVF)
et la contraception. Le deuxi6me volet, egalement prioritaire, conceme les hommes, les pares-
cihbataires, les peres de famille et les leaders communautaires, avec pour theme les avantages
et les bienfaits de la planification familiale. Le troisieme et demier volet du sous-programme
touche les d6cideurs et officiels de haut rang et porte sur les relations entre population et
developpement. Le deuxieme sous-programme est constitu6 par des sessions d'information
men6es par les communicateurs concues pour augmenter l'information et, partant, la
sensibilisation de toutes les couches de la population sur les themes de sant6 de la reproduction
et de la croissance demographique.
Renforcement de la promotion des comportements sanitaires adequats. Parmi les
adolescents et jeunes adultes, le manage et l'activit6 sexuelle precoces sont de pratique
courante. Mais la connaissance des MST et des pratiques sanitaires benefiques est insuffisante.
Les groupes cibles pour La promotion des comportements sanitaires adequats seront: les 2
millions de jelmes ages de 10 a 24 ans dans toute la Guinee; la majorit6 des hommes et femmes
en age de procreer et en union durable; et les parents et personnes iafiuentes dans les
communautes: peres et meres, accoucheuses traditionnels, enseignants et les gardiens de la
paix (policiers, gendarmes). Le Gouvernement appuiera des activites qui informent et
conseillent, tout en etant attrayantes et divertissantes, pour les jeunes adultes en milieux urbain
et rural et la mise en oeuvre des etapes de changement de comportement afin que peres et
meres de famille, hommes et femmes en age de procreer soient en possession des informations
qui leur permettront de choisir et de decider a l'issue des seances de counseling avec les
prestataires formes. Le Gouvemement s'attachera aussi a soutenir toutes les actions pour fiiire
disparaitre les pratiques traditionnelles nefastes, telles les mutilations g6nitales feminines. Ces
pratiques sont condamnees depuis 1989 dans le Code Penal guin6en (article 265).
Cependant, les pesanteurs sociologiques font qu'elles demeurent encore r6pandues. Le
Gouvernement agira de concert avec les ONG impliqu6es dans ce travail de longue haleine (par
exemple, la "Cellule de Coordination des Pratiques Traditionnelles Affectant la Sante des
Femmes et des Enfants" ou CPTAFE). Ce travail demandera des efforts soutenus d;
sensibilisation ainsi que des strategies novatrices telles le recyclage economique des exciseusesJ



5.
Appui aux groupes vulnerables et promotion de la population et la sant6 de la
reproduction. Selon les differentes etudes de base et les ateliers realis8s dans le cadre de la
preparation du PPSG, les obstacles sociologiques, culturels et religieux demeurent importants
et constituent un frein a l'am6lioratIon de la sante genesique et i la reduction de la croissance
demographique. Etant donne les grandes difficultes rencontrees pour reduire ces obstacles, qui
trouvent leur origine dans les valeurs socioculturelles, les mentalites et les coutumes, le
Gouvemement pense qu'un fonds d'Appui pour la Population (FAP) pourra assister les
populations guineennes a trouver leurs propres solutions a ces problemes. Le FAP est donc
concu pour repondre aux besoins specifiques des communaut6s de base i travers un
mecanisme flexible de financement des activites prioritaires d6finies par les communaut6s eles-
memes en matiere de population et de sante genesique. Le FAP vise a financer, sous forme de
don, les activit6s a caractere social au sein des commimaut6s, pour (i) l'aamelioration de la sante
de la mere, de l'enfant et des jeunes et, (ii) le changement de comportement des commnautes
pour reduire la croissance demographique.
Decentralisation de la gestion des services d'appui aux prestations. Depuis plus d'une
d6cennie, le Gouvemement a reussi a mettre en place les bases d'un processus de
decentralisation durable qui responsabilise de facon progressive les huit regions. Faute de
financement et de renforcement adequats, les r6formes administratives ne sont pas appliqu6es.
Bien que normes, standards et procedures en sante de la reproduction aient ete adoptes en
1996, le programme d'Assurance de la Qualite des soins et des services doit encore etre mis en
oeuvre dans sa totalite. En plus, les techniques de supervision ne sont pas standardisees pour
permettre des comparaisons dans la region et entre les regions. Enfin, bien que le personnel
soit inventoriec dans une base de donnees administrative, l'absence d'une base de donnees
fonctionnelle sur le personnel rend difficile le suivi des performances et la remise a jour des
competences lors des recyclages.
L'approvisionnement en produits pharmaceutiques et contracepifs devra etre revu dans
sa totalite. Le Ministere de la Sante mettra au point un plan global visant a resoudre les
problemes actuels du sous-secteur m6dicaments au cours de l'execution du Projet. Cet effort
inclura ine revision de la tarification actuelle dans le Secteur Public de facon a assurer une
meilleure rentabilite de celui-ci, reduire les possibilites de transfert de produits fortement
subventionnes vers le secteur informel ou priv6 et retablir des conditions de hlbre concurrence.
Le fonctionnement des structures logistiques publiques devra etre ameliore. Une attention
pardculiere sera apportee a toutes actions visant a ameliorer la situation de la Pharmacie
Centrale de Guinee (PCG). En attendant la mise en place de solutions plus globales, qui ne
pourra etre r6alis6e que dans des delais relativement longs, la structure logistique
PEV/SSP/ME qui approvisionne les programmes en cours et approvisionnera le projet en
contraceptifs et autres medicaments essentiels sera renforcee, pour garantir que les niveaux
p6riph6riques approvisionnent les populations de maniare adequate.
Amelioration des prestations de planification fTmlliale et de la lutte contre les
MST/SIDA. L'udlisation adequate de la contraception et partant l'augmentation de la
prevalence ne pourra etre accomplie que si les prestations sont mises a la portee de la grande
majorit6 des beneficiaires. 11 reste a integrer les prestations*4anification familiale dans deux
tiers des centres de sante et les communaut6s environnantes 01



6.
Le Ministere de la Sante rappellera les directives stipulant que les services de
planification familiale sont subventionnes afin que la tarification appliquee les rende accessible
aux groupes vulnerables et aux indigents. II reste cependant a revoir l'echelle des subventions
aux medicaments essentiels (y comniris les contraceptifs). Pour reduire la discontinuation de
l'utilisation, la qualit6 des services doit non seulement etre maintenue mais encore
constamment amelioree. Le Gouvernement appuiera egalement les activites de prevention des
MST et leur traitement precoce chez les jeunes de 12 a 24 ans qui ne sont pas en union
durable, au niveau des services de sante universitaire et scolaire, au niveau des six cliniques
modeIes et au niveau des centres urbains oii il y a des laboratoires de diagnostic et depistage.
Etant donn6 le r6le essentiel des centres de stage pratique que sont les cliniques de 1'AGBEF,
le Gouvemement continuera a s'appuyer sur cette ONG en lui confiant la mission d'operation
de deux autres cliniques modeles.
Amelioration des services pour la maternite sans risque, le developpement de la
premiere enfance et la prise en charge integree de l'enfant malade. Si les consultations
prenatales se sont safisamment developpees, permettant ainsi de detecter les risques au cours
de la grossesse, les evacuations suite aux hemorragies ou aux accouchements compliques sont
difficiles ou impossibles. Les dix prefectures sur un total de 33 qui ne peuvent pas foumnir de
services d'urgences obst6tricales selon les normes requises seront pourvues d'infrastructures et
equipements adequats. Le Gouvelmement soutiendra aussi les commumaut6s qui mettront en
place un systeme de Mutuelle de Solidarit6 pour les Risques lies a la Grossesse et a
l'Accouchement (MURIGA) ou construiront des cases d'attente pour les femmes en situation
de grossesse a risque. Le programme national de nutrition qui est actuellement en cours
d'execution sera renforce au niveau communautaire, notamment pour les activit6s de contr6le
et promotion de la croissance, ou de d6veloppement de la petite enfance, qui sont encore
reduites a des iniiatives isolees et de faible envergure. Par aileurs, l'indice synth6tique de
f6condit6, estim6 a sept enfants par femme, indique que les naissances sont fr6quentes et
nombreuses, autant de facteurs majeurs de malnutrition parmni les femmes guineennes ainsi que
de malnutrition, de morbidit6 surajoutee et meme de deces parmi leurs enfants avant l'age de
cinq ans. Bien que les endemies majeures dont souffrent les enfints fassent l'objet de
programmes de prevention (par exemple, PEV, Lutte contre les maladies diarrhiiques ou
contre le paludisme), la formation de la majorite des prestataires a la prise en charge int6gr6e
des maladies de 1'enfhnce sera renforcee. Toutes ces activites seront appuyes dans le cadre du
PPSG qui apportera son appui a la supervision formative et I'assurance de la qualit6 des soins
et services pour la prise en charge integree des maladies de l'enfance.
Coordination des politiques et de l'execution du projet. Le lancement de ce programme
multi-sectoriel d6crit ci-dessus implique la necessite de disposer de structures de coordination
tant au niveau de la mise en oeuvre de la Politique de Population pour la Guinee (PPG) et de la
Politique Sanitaire que de I'execution du PPSG. Le Gouvemement s'est deja dote d'une
Commission Nationale de la Population et des Ressources Humaines (CNPRH), qui a pour
mission essentielle de fornmuler et de mettre en oeuvre la Politique  Populaton et toutes les
politiques de promotion et de valorisation des ressources humane  L1



7.
Le Gouvemement prend l'engagement de renforcer le Secretariat Permanent de la CNPRH, et
ce avant le demarrage du PPSG, en prenant les mesures suivantes: (a) la defnition precise du
role de la CNPRH qui doit assister le Gouvemement a rendre aisement disponible rinfonnation
sur les questions de population, diffiuser le contenu de la Politique Nationale de population et
coordonner les actions en matiere de population au niveau national, y compris I'anocation des
contnbutions des bailleurs de fonds; (b) le. rattachement du Secretariat Permanent de la
CNPRH au Cabinet du Ministre du Plan pour renforcer sa credibilit6 et assurer sa visibiLte
institutionnelle; (c) la preparation des termes de r6f6rence et des plans annuels d'activites de la
CNPRH; (d) l'engagement de r6unir la CNPRH au moins une fois par trnmestre et d'assurer le
suivi de ses recommandations; et (e) la mise a la disposition du Secretariat Permanent des
ressources necessaires en personnel, soit le Secretaire Permanent (un sp6cialiste en population)
et deux autres personnes (un specialiste en techniques de communication et d'IEC et un
statisticien/demographe). Ces personnes seront identifiees au sein de la Fonction Publique
guin6enne et deployees au Secr*tariat Permanent. En attendant la mise en place de cette
capacite, le projet PPSG soutiendra le Secr6tariat Permanent de la CNPRH afin de dynamiser
cette demiere. En effet, le PPSG, dont l'execution impliquera des intervenants des diffrents
secteurs, sera mis en oeuvre par un Bureau de Coordination. Cehli-ci comprendra plusieurs
specialistes dans les domaines de 1'EEC, de la participation comm uautaire, de la
demographie/statistique et des services de sant6 publique, qui apporteront tous un appui
technique a la CNPRH
Durant ces demieres annees, le Gouvemement de la R6publique de Guine, a entrepris
des reformes afin de promouvoir la croissance economique et de reduire la pauvret6. II est
cependant n6cessaire qu'un effort soit entrepris pour lancer des progranmnes de population et
de sant6 en vue de reguler la f6condit6 globale. Ceci devrait permettre d'etabiir un 6qufibre
entre la croissance 6conomique et l'accroissement de la population guin6enne, dans le but
d'ameliorer ses conditions de vie. Le Gouvemement pense que le projet Population et Sante
Genesique propose ici est l'instrument adequat pour atteindre ces objectifs.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President, 1'expression de ma haute consideration.
Ministre du Plan et de la Cooperation
 E   dlrnoX  madou Cellou DLALLO
~ Nwve 



MAP SECTION



E A SiHEtA                          12"                                            10 "          GUINEA                           80 
- - -- -            - --T TKed                                              POPULATION AND REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH PROJECT
TO Xim,e            o    ra
12'  ISSAU           Ma i                                                                             To Banicko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Wo0; Daabo /                             Kal                        K    s-
E                               Niandoko~~~~~~~~~~~~~?4odin
G U Il A X:r X C  <,,  , _><s I E R RA L E O N E E                                HAUTE j   GU NE                            Beyla
.... D SENEGaL                                                                                                      < *  NATIONALKCAPITAL  o  F    RE)S   IERE
GAMBI ~~~~~  MA LI               ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~I Nlo,
Gh8Blt---'    t   M A L I   ~       ~       ~       C P1 ADTALES sDAES MRNISlTOERNES RESIDENTS   S-                                                                           0        \t
.  $-~~~~ -_-i  *          / ~~~~~~*    PREFECTURE CAPITALS                             /     _        /       /       ;<    1C                     X~ 
.EA      t              -8SMITES DES PREFECTULRES
. Conagry! ^|   )    4.~LMT  D  MINISTERES RESIESDENTS
$ .   SERi9A5L4EONEy\ 2   C6TE       )                    -  FRONUIET ES INTERNATEONAS TEA",)
O                            ERA *>> 1                 The boundaries, color5, denominations and any other information  AvIID=DIA (         [9\               
r ~~~~~~~~,                        j        ,{1 i11S-gJEI    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,   JLI B ER IA                To  dl   1   o bdjn 
~ gt -  r f ,, - - ~7~~)any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement                           f  X    
rn  AO        _          *1  (                               R or acceptance ofsuch boundaries.                >O    '



