Report No. PIC5464
Project name                Guinea-Population and Reproductive Health Project
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Project ID                        GNPE41568
Borrower                          Government of the Republic of Guinea
Implementing Agency               Project Coordination Office,
at Ministry of Plan
Contact: Dr. Mamadi Conde
Coordinator of the preparation phase
Tel/Fax: (224) 41-34-63
Date PID prepared                 July 29, 1997
Appraisal Date                    February 15, 1998
Project Board Date                July 7, 1998
Country and Sector Background
Health Sector in Guinea is intended to service a total resident
population of 7,165,750 inhabitants (1996), close to eight millions
if the refugee population is included. Three fourths of Guineans
are rural dwellers. Age groups under 15 years old dominate the
Guinean population (estimated to be over 46.5%). Children under 5
years old account for 18% while women of reproductive age (15 - 49
years old) make 25% of the total population. Life expectancy at
birth is currently estimated to be under 50. Between 1990 - 1995,
estimated crude birth rate (CBR): 41- 49 per 1000, whereas crude
death rate (CDR) was estimated at 19 - 21 per 1000.
The annual population growth rate is currently 3.2%, one of the
highest in Sub Saharan Africa. As of 1992, total fertility rate
(TFR) was 5.7 - 6.6 live births per woman between 15 - 49 years old
(DHS 1992). This is in accordance with trends monitored by the
United Nations Population Division. With regard to proximate
determinants of fertility, Guinea is comparatively disadvantaged in
the Africa Region: Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) : 137 per 1000 live
births (103 for Sub Saharan Africa, (SSA); Under 5 years Mortality
Rate (U5MR) : 236 (172 for SSA); higher in Upper and Forest Guinea.
Government's commitment to solve population growth is translated by
official policy statements. Population policy was approved by
Government and the Parliament in May 1992. Recommendations of the
International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD, Cairo
1994) were later included in the policy document, and MCH / FP
policy and programs were revised accordingly. The Government of
Guinea confirmed its commitment to the population policy by two
recent actions: first, its official statement to achieve a
contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) of 25%, in the best case
scenario up to 32 % by 2010; and second, the program of action that
has been drafted to override legal barriers.



Project objectives
The project will address the population issue from the reproductive
health perspective. The Population and Reproductive Health
Project's development objectives are to provide support to the
Government of Guinea in its effort to (1) improve awareness of
population issues and promote adequate reproductive health
practices (2)improve quality, access and utilization of primary
health care and priority reproductive health programs.
Project description
The project would provide support to achieve the following:
(i) Reduced imbalance between population and economic growths through
- Increased awareness of population and development by means of
advocacy at the policy level, and improved resource allocation;
- Promotion of positive health practices by supporting behavior
change communication (BCC) programs for opinion leaders and
decision makers; youth population, parents, men and women in
their reproductive years.
(ii) Effective management and delivery of Reproductive Health
services through strengthening of
- Contraceptive / family planning services
- Safe Motherhood and Early Childhood Development services
- STD/AIDS screening and treatment services
- Rationalized operational information system for management
decisions pertaining to the reproductive health program and
- Improvement of access for vulnerable groups
(iii) Strengthened institutional capacities to better manage
population programs by supporting a rationalized operational
information system for management decisions pertaining to the
population program, including the completion and dissemination of
Censuses data.
Project cost and financing
The project cost and financing plan are not yet defined. Total IDA
credit is estimated at US $15 million with local counterpart funds
representing approximately 7t of the IDA Credit. Cofinancing and
parallel financing are expected from UNFPA, USAID and KfW, among
others.
Project implementation
A project Coordination Office, acting also as a technical arm for
the C.N.P.R.H. (National Population and Human Resources Committee),
would be the executing agency. Given its multisectoral nature, this
population project would be executed under the coordination and
impulse of a team comprised of staff with the required skills on
demography; behavior change communications; health and
- 2-



institutional capacity improvement. An incremental approach to
execution is foreseen; there will be, at the central level, an
annual review of project's achievements towards the strategic
objectives (outputs). Particular attention will be given to
adequate management techniques, including Quality Assurance, built
in the project design
Project sustainability
Responsiveness to borrower's concern on poverty, while promoting
positive health behaviors and addressing reproductive health needs,
will be cost effective. It will increase collaboration between
sectors and with indigenous NGOs, improve management processes, and
start to build sustainability by empowering targeted low income
women and youth. Furthermore, documentation abounds on the fact
that comprehensive and integrated reproductive health programs are
cost effective in lowering mortality and decreasing the effects of
diseases, and thus enhancing the positive effects of Poverty
alleviation program, and ultimately sustainability of the same.
Lessons from previous IDA operations
Relatively weak administrative performances of the Sector
should not be aggravated by a project with a complex design. The
proposed project is made of three components;(i) advocacy at policy
level and behavior change communication program; (ii) improvement
of reproductive health services; and (iii) overarching
institutional development.
The accessibility of the poor to health services ought to be
further addressed. This matter ought to receive proper attention in
all Bank-funded projects in low-income countries. Users fees for
reproductive health services will be assessed and put on the lowest
scale so it would not become a deterrent for the use of those cost-
effective services.
Quality control measures and surveys should be carried out
regularly to further improve utilization rates and health services
outcomes. Interviews of community leaders and client satisfaction
surveys will be scheduled to monitor the quality of services. Norms
and procedures of Reproductive Health will serve as basis for
training, for Quality Assurance program at regional level and
continuing education.
The weak family planning outcomes show that strong, high-
level political support and a convincing effort to sensitize the
target groups are needed from the start of the project, together
with proper primary health services, to boost the demand for modern
contraception. The proposed project will seek high visibility
through institutional arrangements as well as through behavior
change communication program.
There should be a development --in parallel and from the
beginning-- of community-based activities, together with more
general policy consensus processes. The proposed project is
-3 -



benefiting from extensive participatory process and consensus
building among stakeholders, with regard to identification of
issues, analysis of problems and formulation of project development
objectives and project components.
Poverty category
Program of targeted interventions: the proposed project aims
to contribute to poverty alleviation through improving the well
being of the population, by decreasing the total fertility rate so
as to gradually reach proportions of population and economic
growths that enable significant increase of GDP per capita.
Environmental aspects
This project would be a category C project, without any
direct negative impact on the environment. The project is expected
to have important long term positive environmental effects due to
the anticipated reduced fertility resulting from reproductive
health services targeted at the youth population, as well as at
older age groups in their fertile years.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 8, 1997.
- 4 -



