Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3148 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Population and Reproductive Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 14, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3148 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 14, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated March 6, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
the health status and welfare of its population (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of twelve years, the proceeds of 
such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain or has obtained from various Donors (as 
hereinafter defined) loans and grants to assist in financing the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“AQSS” means Quality Assurance of Care and Services; 
(b)
“BCPS” means Bureau de Coordination Population Santé, the Population and 
Health Coordination Office within MS (as hereinafter defined), the Project 
implementing unit; 
(c)
“Beneficiary” means a community or group which meets the criteria 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined), to which or 
for whose benefit a Grant is made or proposed to be made, for a PSF Micro-project (as 
hereinafter defined) under the Project; 
(d)
“Budget” means the Borrower’s budget for the Sector (as herein defined) 
in a particular Fiscal Year (as herein defined), which has been approved by the 
Borrower’s Parliament;  
(e)
“CNPRH” means the Commission Nationale de la Population et des Ressources 
Humaines, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Décret No. 
D/96/206/PRG/SGG;
(f)
“DAAF” means the Division des Affaires Administrative et Financière, the 
Administrative and Financial Department of MS (as hereinafter defined); 
(g)
“DIEM” means Division de l’Infrastructure, de l’Equipement et du 
Matériel, the Directorate of Infrastructure and Equipment in MS (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(h)
“Donors” mean any national or multilateral agency contributing, resources  
to, or technical assistance for, the Project; 
(i)
“DSR” means Division de la Santé de la Reproduction, the Division of 
Reproductive Health in MS (as hereafter defined); 
Page  3
(j)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period beginning January 1 and 
ending December 31 of each year according to the Gregorian calendar; 
(k)
“Franc Guinéen” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(l)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to finance a PSF 
Micro-project (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.3 of the Project; 
(m)
“HIV/AIDs” means the Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Auto-Immunodeficiency 
System Syndrome; 
(n)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations;
(o)
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication; 
(p)
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be deposited into the 
Project Account, as hereinafter defined, pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(q)
“MS” means Ministère de la Santé, the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
(r)
“NGO” means one or several non-governmental organizations, established 
and operating in the territory of the Borrower; 
(s)
“Population Support Fund” or “PSF” means a fund, established by the 
Borrower, to provide Grants to Beneficiaries for carrying out PSF Micro-projects (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(t)
“Prefectures” means an administrative area of the territory of the 
Borrower; 
(u)
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the Manuel d’Exécution du 
Projet dated April 18, 1998, a manual containing, inter alia, guidelines, timetables, 
procedures and other arrangements for the purpose of implementing the Project, 
including the PSF, and such term includes any schedules and amendments to the PIM; as 
the same may be amended from time to time, in consultation with and with the consent 
of the Association;
(v)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter of agreement signed on 
October 9, 1997, and countersigned on October 28, 1997; 
(w)
“PSF Micro-project” means a specific activity in the areas referred to in 
Part A.3 of the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a Grant extended 
under the Project; 
(x)
“Sector” means the sector of health and social activities of the 
Borrower; 
(y)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(z)
“STI” means Sexually Transmitted Infection. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 8,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
Page  4
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on the account of 
withdrawals made under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for a Micro-project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank or any other bank acceptable to 
the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, in 
the case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. Section 2.07. (a) Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 
commencing March 1, 2009 and ending September 1, 2038. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on September 1, 2018 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
Page  5
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of 
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, public health, population, and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open an account in Francs Guinéens in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association (the Project Account), and thereafter maintain said Project Account under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association until the completion of the 
Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of FG 80,000,000; 
and (ii) thereafter, at annual intervals, replenish the Project Account by the amounts 
required to finance the Borrower’s contribution for expenditures under the Project 
other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit, or grants and loans made 
available by Donors, as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; 
and
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit, or grants and 
loans made available by Donors.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Page  7
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefore, or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions 
of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the 
initial amount referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement; and
(b)
the Borrower has appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre de l’Economie
et des Finances
Conakry, Guinea
Telex:
22399 MIFIGE
For the Association:
Page  8
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Mohammed Aly Thiam 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mamadou Dia 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   1,300,000
95%
(2)
Equipment, vehicles,
   2,200,000
100% of foreign
office furniture, drugs
and 95% of local
vaccines, reagents,
expenditures
medical supplies and
contraceptives
(3)
Consultants' services,
   2,100,000
100%
including audits, and
training
(4)
Grants for Micro-
     500,000
100% of amounts disbursed
projects
(5)
Incremental operating
   1,400,000
90%
costs
(6)
Refunding of the
      500,000
Amount due pursuant
Page  9
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
      500,000
TOTAL
    8,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring including office 
consumables (including communication expenses), staff travel and associated 
subsistence allowances, salaries for incremental contractual and temporary staff, 
office rental, office supplies and maintenance, and fuel and maintenance for vehicles 
and equipment, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a)
in respect of a Grant unless the Grant has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and (b) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) civil works and 
goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (b) for consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for individual consultants’ services under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the health 
situation of its population by preventing and alleviating reproductive health risks 
and reducing infant, child and maternal mortality rates, through: (i) a sustainable 
population growth rate, (ii) safer behavior and health practices, and (iii) improved 
delivery of reproductive and child services.
Subject to such modifications as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve the Project’s objective, the Project consists of the 
following Parts.
Part A:
Population Growth and Reproductive Health Awareness
Increasing the awareness of the Borrower’s population towards sustainable 
population growth, reproductive health issues, and HIV/AIDS, through the preparation 
and implementation of: (i) IEC campaigns directed towards selected segments of the 
Borrower’s population including male heads of households, cultural, religious, and 
community leaders, adolescents and young adults, high level officials, and public and 
private sector managers; and (ii) programs designed to support advocacy activities in 
favor of sustainable population growth. Promoting behavioral changes for safer 
reproductive health practices through the preparation and implementation of IEC, 
training, and counseling programs directed towards in-school, and out-of-school, 
adolescents and young adults, in urban and rural areas, parents, community and 
religious leaders, health service providers, and security forces.
3.
Promotion, preparation, appraisal, supervision, and evaluation of activities 
designed to: (i) improve reproductive health; (ii) strengthen family planning, and 
promote sustainable population growth; and (iii) improve the legal status of women, 
Page  10
and provision of Grants to finance such activities.
Part B:
Reproductive Health and Maternal and Child Health Services
1.
Strengthening the management of reproductive health services, through: (i) the 
establishment and operations of a decentralized management system designed to improve 
the supervision and the quality of such services; (ii) construction and equipping of 
health facilities; (iii) acquisition of buffer stocks of essential drugs and 
contraceptives; and (iv) provision of technical advisory service to improve  logistics 
for training of trainers.
2.
Improving quality of, and access to, family planning and STI/AIDS services, 
through: (i) construction and equipping of facilities for family planning, the 
prevention and treatment STI, and the prevention of HIV/AIDS; (ii) acquisition of 
consumables for the prevention of transmission of STI/AIDS; (iii) strengthening the 
supervision of services delivery at the regional and local level; and (iv) quality 
improvement activities at service delivery sites.
3.
Improving quality of maternal and child health services through: (i) 
construction and equipping of health facilities; (ii) acquisition of emergency 
obstetrical kit and communication equipment, consumables, and equipment and furniture 
for maternity and obstetrical operating rooms and related facilities; and (iii) 
strengthening the Borrower’s capacities for the supervision and planning of 
community-based activities.
Part C:
Institutional Capacity 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to prepare and implement programs 
designed to achieve sustainable population growth, and to improve the delivery of 
reproductive health services, through the renovation and equipping of offices, the 
provision of technical advisory services, and training. 
2.
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity for the supervision, coordination, 
monitoring, and auditing of the Project, through the rehabilitation of office 
buildings, the acquisition of equipment, and furniture, the provision of technical 
advisory services, and training. 
3.
Provision of training, technical advisory services, and acquisition of 
equipment, furniture, material and vehicles to: (a) build the capacity of PSF to 
select, monitor and supervise Micro-projects; and (b) provide local community leaders, 
community groups, and associations with skills and knowledge required to carry out 
their responsibilities in Micro-projects identification, preparation, implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following provisions of this 
Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Page  11
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 and $200,000 equivalent or more each respectively.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Drugs, vaccines and contraceptives estimated to cost more than $100,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of $750,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods, other than drugs, vaccines and contraceptives, estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$220,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods, other than drugs, vaccines and contraceptives, estimated to cost less 
than $20,000 equivalent, per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods, other than drugs, vaccines and contraceptives, estimated to cost less 
than $20,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, vaccines, drugs and supplies estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $360,000 equivalent, 
may be procured from, IAPSO, UNIPAC or WHO, and contraceptives may be procured from 
UNFPA, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
6.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature, spare parts and drugs costing less than 
$5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 
equivalent, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
Page  12
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
7.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $950,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, were applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  13
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of consultant’s qualifications in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least Cost Selection
Services for audits and design and supervision of civil works estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of least cost selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for: (i) training of trainers; (ii) broadcasting of messages through 
national, and regional mass media; and (iii) the demographic health survey to be 
carried out under Part C.1 of the Project, may be procured, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of 
the Consultants’ Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks meeting the requirements of Section V of the consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower, through MS, shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
Page  14
procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the PIM and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any 
provision of said PIM if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with monitoring and performance indicators 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project; 
and
(b)
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments:
(i)
not later than November 30 of each year, commencing on November 
30, 1999, or 
such later date as the Association may agree, until the 
completion of the 
Project, the draft Budget for the next Fiscal 
Year; and
(ii)
not later than November 30 of each year, or such later date as the 
Association 
may agree, commencing on November 30, 1999, until the 
completion of the 
Project, an annual report setting forth, inter 
alia: (A) a summary of the 
results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, and (B) progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the 
Project.
3.
(a)
By December 1, of each year, commencing December 1, 1999 or such later 
date as the Association may agree, until the completion of the Project, the Borrower 
and the Association shall carry out an annual review of the Project (hereinafter 
called the Annual Review); such Annual Review shall cover the progress achieved in the 
execution of the Project and, inter alia, review the information furnished in 
accordance with paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule, and work programs to be carried out 
under the Project during the following FY.
(b)
Following such Annual Review the Borrower shall carry out said work 
programs in accordance with modalities and procedures approved by the Association and 
in accordance with the PIM, and shall not make any material change to the approved 
programs without the prior approval of the Association.
4.
(a)
Not later than 24 months after the Effective Date or such other date as 
the Borrower and the Association shall agree upon, the Borrower and the Association 
shall carry out a mid-term review (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). The 
Borrower shall take all actions it considers necessary to ensure the participation of 
Donors, NGOs, and Beneficiaries in such Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall 
cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Donors including the Association, for their review and comments, a 
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
implementation of the Project.
(c)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association 
to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project and the Program, 
as the case may be, or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project coordinator, 
within BCPS, with qualifications, and experience acceptable to  the Association, who 
shall be responsible for the management and coordination of the implementation of the 
Project, and three specialists in: (i) demography and statistics, in charge of project 
monitoring and evaluation system; (ii) behavior change and communication, in charge of 
coordinating, monitoring and evaluation of the subset of all communication related 
Page  15
activities; and (iii) community organization and participation, in charge of programs 
decentralization, management of the FAP and support to its selection committee and 
collaborating NGOs;
(b)
maintain the positions of accountant at DAAF, and procurement officer at 
DIEM, filled at all times during the implementation of the Project, with persons with 
qualification and experience acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
maintain until the completion of the Project, computerized accounting 
systems acceptable to the Association, at BCPS and DAAF, for the purpose of carrying 
out the Project.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
Not later than December 31, 1999, assign to the permanent secretariat of 
CNPRH, civil servants in adequate numbers and with qualifications acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
not later than December 31, 1999, nominate members of technical 
committees of AQSS at regional and local levels;
(c)
(i) not later than December 31, 1999, complete, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, an exhaustive assessment of services providers’ 
competencies, skills and training needs pertaining to reproductive and child health, 
(ii) not later than June 30, 2000; adopt a training program in reproductive and child 
health for each region, acceptable to the  Association.
(d) 
not later than June 30, 2000, prepare, or cause to be prepared, for each 
region, an action plan, acceptable to the Association, designed to (i) inform women 
and girls on the health effects of female genital mutilations, and on their impact on 
maternal morbidity and mortality, and (ii) strengthen its legal framework forbidding 
female genital mutilations; and thereafter, implement said action plan in accordance 
with timetables included therein.
(e) 
not later than June 30, 2001, adopt an action plan, acceptable to the 
Association, designed to strengthen and improve the efficiency of its pharmaceutical 
sub-sector. Said action plan shall include a pricing policy designed to remove 
existing price deterrent to consistent utilization of modern contraceptives. 
Population Support Fund 
7.
Part A.3 of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria, procedures, and terms and conditions specified in detail in the PIM. The 
provisions of such Manual shall not be amended or waived in a manner which, in the 
opinion of the Association, would materially and adversely affect the execution of 
Part A.3 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. The PSF shall 
be managed by BCPS. 
8.
The first five Micro-projects shall be subject to prior review and approval by 
the Association. 
9.
Eligibility Criteria for Micro-projects
Micro-projects shall be for activities in the areas of reproductive health, 
infant and child health and nutrition in accordance with the eligibility criteria, 
procedures and guidelines set forth in the PIM. 
10.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Micro-Projects
For purposes of financing Micro-projects, the Borrower shall enter into 
appropriate arrangements with Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, which shall include the following:
(a)
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the Micro-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Micro-project;
Page  16
(b)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
ensuring efficiency and economy; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Micro-project; and
(c)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Micro-project, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Grants, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $750,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
eligible Categories, and in the equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
Page  17
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
