Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7497-GA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
MARCH 16, 1989
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency  Unit        CFA Franc (CFAF)
USS1.0   =   CFAF 309
CFAF 1   =   US$0.003
CFAF 1 million   =   US$3236
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 -- December 31
SYSTEM OF 4ETGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)                 =    3.28  feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.62  mile (mi)
]. square kilometer (km2)   =    0.39  square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)                  2,?05 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Item        ---------------------------------- English/French ----------------------------------
AfDB        African Development Bank/Banque Africaine de Développement
AIR GABON   Gabon Airlines!La Compagnie nationale Air Gabon
ASECNA      Agency for Air Navigation Safety/Agence pour la Sécurité de la Navigation Aérienne
BEAC        Bank of Central Africar States/Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
CGPDE       General Commission for Plan, Development and Economy/Commission Générale du Plan, de
Développement et de l'Economie (CMPE)
CNI         Inland Navigation Company/La Compagnie Nationale de Navigation Intérieure
COMILOC     Ogooue Mining Company/Compagnie Minière de l'Ogooué
DERA        Directorate for Road and Airport Maintenance/Direction de l'Entretien des Routes et
Aérodromes (DGTP/TffPECAT)
DCEP        Ceneral Directorate of Studies and Programming/Direction Générale des Etudes et de
la Programmation (MTPECAT)
DGTP        Ceneral Directorate of Public Works/Direction Cénérale des Travaux Publics (MTPECAT)
DIT         Directorate of Transport Infrastructure/Direction des Infrastructures de Transport
DOM         Directorate of ,q~uipment/Direction de l'Outillage Méchanique
ERR         Economic rate Gf return/Taux de rentabilité économique
ETTPF       Technical School for Public Works at Fougamou/Ecole des Techniciens des Travaux.
Publics de Fougamou
FAC         French Bilateral Assistance/Fonds d'aide et coopération
LBTPG       Public Works Laboratory/Laboratoire du Bâtiment et des Travaux Publics du Gabon
M           Million/million
M-M         Man-months/homme-mois
MPDE        Ministry of Planning, Development and Economy/Ministère de la Planification, de
Développement et de l'Economie
MTPECAT     Ministry of Public Works, Equipment, Construction and Territorial Development/Minis-
tère des Travaux Publics, de l'Equipement, de la Construction et de l'Aménagement du
Territoire
OCIRA       Gabonese Railways/Office du Chemin de Fer Transgabonais
OPRAG       Gabonese Port Authority/Office des Ports et Rades du Gabon
SAL         Structural Adjustment Lending/Prêt d'ajustement structurel
TPU         Training Production Unit
voc         Vehicle Operating Costs/Coût d'opération des véhicules
vpd         Vehicles per day/Véhicules par jour



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE GABONASE REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .................................                              i
I.    INTRODUCTION  .............................................                               1
A.   Background  ..........             .................................                 1
B.   The Economy  .             .......................I.................                1
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......................2..............                                2
A.   Transport  System and Sub-sectors  .....................                            2
B.   Sector Strategy and  Issues  ...........................                            4
C.   Bank-financed Transport Projects  .....................                             5
III.    THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR  ......................................                               6
A.   The Network  ..........................................                             6
B.   Planning  .............................................                             8
C.   Administration  .......................................                             8
IV.    THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT  ..............................                              10
A.   The Program  ..........................................                            10
B.   Project Objectives  ...................................                            10
C.   Project Descrlption  ..................................                            10
D.   Project Costs and Financing  ..........................                            16
E.   Implementation  ...                 ...................................            18
F.   Procurement  ..........................................                            20
G.   Disbursements  ........................................                            22
H.   Accounting,  Auditing and Reporting  ....                   ...............        23
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ......................................                              24
A.   Methodology  ..........................................                            24
B.   Economic Returns  .....................................                            25
C.   Risks  ..........            ......................................                25
D.   Environmental Implications  ...........................                            25
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                  .......   ......           26
This report was prepared by Messrs. Harald Hansen (Task Manager, Senior Transport Economist), and
Barry H. Van Waes (Senior Highway Engineer). Mr. Aurel Borlestean (Highway Engineer, Consultant)
also participated in its drafting.  Mr. J. M. Lantran from the Africa Technical Department pro-
vided advice in the preparation of the project and the report. The report vas prepared on the
basis of a transport mission in April 1988, an appraisal mission in July 1988, and a public
investment review mission in October 1988.  Secretarial work and typing were done by Ms. Denise
Martin and Miss Marcelle E. Houle.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
2     Organigram of Ministry of Public Works, Equipment,
Construction and Territorial Development .................           27
3     Road Network and Traffic Volumes ........................            28
4-1   Roads and Bridges Maintenance Works by Contract                      29
4-2   Works by Force Account .. .   . ........    .........                30
4-3   Cost Estimate for Rehabilitation of Equipment .3........             33
4-4   Cost Estimate for Roads Equipment    .................               35
4-5   Cost Estimate for Training                                           39
4-6   General Outline of the Three-year Training Program.                  40
4-7   Technical Assistance        ..     ............... . ......          47
4-8   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance                          48
4-9   List of Computer Equipment                 .....                     61
4-10   Road Study Program.. ......... . ........... . ........              62
4-11 Cost Estimate.                                                         63
4-12   Project Cost Estimate and Financing.                                 64
4-13   Project Implementation Schedule               ....                   65
4-14   Action Plan.................. . ...                                  66
4-15 Disbursement Schedule.                                                 68
5-1   Economic Evaluation of Roads and Bridges Maintenance
Works by Contract ....... .....                                      69
5-2   Economic Evaluation of Road Maintenance by Force Account..           70
APPENDIX:  Documents in the Project File.                ..........          71
MAPS:   IBRD 20594
IBRD 21108



THE CABONESE REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE .;ROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Gabonese Republic
Beneficiary:                   Ministry of Public Works, Equipment, Construction and Territorial
Development
Loan Amount:                   US$30.0 M
Terms:                         Amortization  over  15 years,  including  5 years  of  grace  at  the
Bank's standard variable interest rate plus standard commitmnent.
Project Description:           Project covering (a) a program of road maintenance by contract;
(b) a program of routine and limited periodic road maintenance by
force account for gravel and earth roads, including rehabilitation
of existing maintenance equipment and purchase of complementary
equipment and spare parts; (c) training; (d) institutional strength-
ening in the road sub-sector; and (e) preparatory and follow-up
studies. The project will be reviewed annually in light of avail-
able funding and priorities.
Project Benefits and Risks:   The project is designed to stop road deterioration and increasing
transport  costs which,  if unattended,  would  increasingly deter
economic   activity,   particularly   agricultural   and   forestry
development.  It will also introduce new policies and practices in
road maintenance,  strengthen the institutional framework and lay
the basis for a higher level of road maintenance and rehabilitation
following the current economic adjustment period.
Summary Project Cost Estimate
---------------- USS  million ----------------
Item                              Local         Taxes        Foreign         Total
1.  Road Maintenance by Contract                      7.5           4.5          18.7            30.7
2.  Road Maintenance by Force Account                16.1          10.5          25.0            52.6
3.  Training                                          0.8           0..           2.2             3.8
4.  Institutional Strengthening                       0.4           1.0           4.4             5.8
5.  Studies                                           0.2           0.3           1.9             2.4
Subtotal                                         25.0         17.1           52.2            94.3
Physical Contingencies                            1.2           0.9           2.6             4.7
Price    Contingencies                            2.6           2.1           6.3            11.0
Total                                            28.8          20.1          61.1           110.0
%                                                  26            18             56            100



- il -
Financing Plan
------ USS  million ------          % of
Item                 Local      Foreign    Total    Project Cost
Government Funds            48.9          --       48.9           44
IBRD                          --       30.0        30.0           27
AfDB                          --        31.1       31.1            29
Total                       48.9        61.1      110.0          100
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(US$  million)
Type           FY89      FY90       FY91      FY92     FY93      FY94
Annual             2.0        7.0        7.5      7.0       5.0       1.5
Cumulative         2.0        9.0       16.5     23.5      28.5      30.0
Rate of Return:                 Overall:      about 55%
Components:  ranging from a minimum of 12% to more than 100%
Estimated Project
Completion:                     June 30, 1993
Maps:                           IBRD 20594
IBRD 21108
AFlIN
March 16, 1989



THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
I.  XNTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.01      The Government of the Cabonese Republic  (Gabon) is carrying out,
with the assistance of the Bank and other donors, a structural adjustment
program to overcome the economic and financial crisis brought about by the
1986 collapse of petroleum prices. As part of the program, the Government has
requested the Banik to help finance a road maintenance project during the
structural adjustment period estimated to last through 1991.  The proposed
project is designed to strengthen the institutional and operational perfor-
mance of the road sub-sector and introduce new policies and measures to
improve the efficiency of the use of road maintenance resources.
1.02      The proposed project complements the Bank's Structural Adjustment
Project (SAL) (Loan 2933-GA, approved on April 21, 1988) under which minimum
levels of road maintenance expenditures were set and the restructuring of the
transport parastatals was initiated. The combined effects of the SAL and the
proposed project would promote a more efficient use of resources in the trans-
port sector, preserve past investments, provide essential transport services
for productive areas and contribute to the Gabonization of road maintenance
planning and management and to the development of local construction enter-
prises.  The proposed project will ensure that by the end of the structural
adjustment period, Gabon will be well positioned to continue to upgrade and
expand its road system through improved maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading of the existing network
B. The Economy
1.03      Gabon is a medium-sized (267,000 km2) country with a sparse popula-
tion of about one million. It is located near the equator along 750 km of the
West African Coast.  Gabon borders on Cameruon and Equatorial Guinea to the
north, Congo to the east and south, and the Atlantic Ocean to the west
(Map IBRD 20594). About half the population is concentrated in the three main
urban centers of Libreville, the capital city; Port-Gentil, the oil port and
major economic center; and Franceville, a smaller center in the interior and
terminal point of the Transgabonese Railway. The urban population is growing
by about 2.3% p.a. compared to only 0.9% p.a. for the rural population. The
country comprises two distinct geographic areas: the low-lying swampy coastal
region,  and a mostly forested and hilly region which covers most of the
country.   Tropical vegetation,  extensive forests,  and tropical soils make
access to the interior difficult and costly.
1.04      Gabon has always been a commodity exporter where economic activities
are carried out in enclaves. Prior to the oil era, Gabon depended heavily on
forestry and mining exports, particularly manganese.  Oil production first
began in 1957 and assumed increasing importance in GDP over time.  By 1974,
after the first major hike in oil prices, oil revenues accounted for 75% of



exports and 50% of Government revenues, and, as a result, the pace of economic
activity became  closely  linked with  international  oil prices.   The  rapid
increase in oil revenues encouraged the Government to expand the public
sector, and to undertake an ambitious investment program resulting in budget
deficits. Such developments were quickly reflected in the level of per capita
CNP. From a modest US$270 in 1960, per capita national income doubled by 1970
to peak at about US$4,000 in 1980.  However, due to softening oil prices and
rapid inflows of migrant workers, it declined to an estimated US$2,750 in
1987.   Even so, per capita national  income is the highest  in Sub-Saharan
Africa.
1.05      The current ecanomic and financial crlsis was provoked by a precipi-
tous fall in Government oil revenues from about CFAF 400 billion in 1984 and
1985, to CFAF 285 billion in 1986 and CFAF 70 billion in 1987.  As a result,
GDP declined by about 6% in 1986 and by another 13% in 19P7. To reduce the
large Government deficits and the accumulation of significant arrears to
domestic suppliers, the Government reduced total expenditures by 48% in 1987,
thus reducing the deficit from 15% to 8% of GDP. The collapse of oil revenues
has had grave implications for the rest of the economy as well. The reduction
of public expenditures, especially investment, has severely depressed the
construction, commercial and service sectors which were significantly in-
creased during the boom years hy oil-related expenditures.  Expenditures for
both road construction and maintenance were reduced sharply.   This general
slow-down created secondary repercussions on the Government's budget by
reducing non-oil revenues.
1.06      Faced with the deterioration of budgetary revenues in 1986,  the
Gavernment adopted a 25-month stabilization program, which was approved by the
IMF Board in December 1986.  Following this, Gabon benefited from substantial
debt relief provided by the Paris and London Clubs. At the same time, there
was a growing recognition that Gabon faced a number of structural problems
including inefficient public resource management, a limited production base, a
serious urban bias of economic activity, a high wage-price structure, a
limited human resource base, inefficient public enterprises, and weak private
initiatives and incentives. To complement the stabilization measures and deal
with the more fundamental structural problems, in 1987 the Government prepared
and started to implement a structural adjustment program which provided the
basis for the SAL (para 1.01). More details on the general economic situation
and the structural adjustment program are given in Document No. P-4742-GA,
Report and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a
Proposed Loan of US$50 Million to the Gabonese Republic for a Structural
Adjustment Program.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Transport System and Sub-sectors
2.01      With the completion in 1987 of the Transgabonese Railway, Gabon has
a fairly well developed and diversified transport network comprising (a) a
road network of about 7,700 km which is deteriorating rapidly because of lack
of maintenance; (b) a new 649 km railway between the port oi Owendo/Libreville
and Franceville operated by the parapublic Gabonese Railways (OCTRA) which is



- 3 -
suffering from riajor financial difficulties; (c) two ports at Owendo and
Port-Gentil, each with a commercial port and a timber port operated by the
Gabonese Ports Authority (OPRAG); (d) a domestic aviation system comprising
some 110 airports or landing strips, of which 3 international and 24 domestic
airports are served by AIR GABON, the national airline, also in financial
difficulties -- the main international airport at Libreville is operated by a
mixed economy company; and (e) a system of lagoon and river transport in the
provinces of Ogooue Maritime and Moyen Ogooue operated in part by the Inland
Navigation Company (CNI).  A Transport Strategy Note (TSN), available in the
project file (Appendix), provides more information on the transport system.
2.02      The  transport network is characterized  by a fairly good  comple-
mentarity between the modes.  However, standards between modes and within a
single mode are uneven, as reflected in the high standards and large excess
capacity of the railway on the one hand, and the modest standards and rapid
deterioration of the road network on the other. This reflects the imbalances
in funding made available for construction and maintenance in recent years.
Similarly, in aviation there is an imbalance between the large number of
airports of international standards and the types of aircraft operated by
AIR GABON, as compared to the lack of equipment and lighting for smaller air-
ports. This results in regional imbalances, as the northern and eastern parts
of the country are at a relative disadvantage compared to other parts served
by the railway and/or air service.
2.03      The main transport infrastructure is of a relatively recent date and
its  construction  and  financing  have  weighed  heavily  on  the Government's
budget.  This is particularly true for the railway with a total construction
cost of about CFAF 1000 billion.  During the period 1980-86, transport ac-
counted for more than 50% of public investments or almost 10% of GDP.  The
largest part (about two thirds) was accounted for by the railway which carries
only 7% of the passenger traffie and 17% of the freight, in terms of passenger
and goods kilometers.  However, while roads accounted for only 20% of infra-
structure investments, they carry about 64% of interurban passenger transport
and 45% of merchandise transport.  Aviation accounts for about 26% of passen-
ger transport and 1% of freight, while lagoon and river transport account for
3% and 37%, respectively.  With regard to goods transport, roads are particu-
larly important for general goods but also account for about a third of timber
transport.   River  transport accounts  for most of the fuel transport  and,
together with the railway,  for the bulk of timber transport.   Apart f rom
growing timber transport, the railway is particularly important for the
transport of clinker and sand, and will, from 1989, transport about half of
the manganese ore exports currently shipped via Pointe Noire in the Congo.
2.04      Road transport is operated  by private individuals, many of whom are
expatriates from other African countries, under a system of partial regula-
tion, through licensing and official tariffs with upper and lower limits. The
supply of road transport capacity seems reasonably adapted to demand. A money
losing transport parastatal for urban transport (SOTRAVIL) was liquidated in
1986, and private taxis and minibuses have taken over the traffic without
major shortages but with higher tariffs.
2.05      The other modes of transport are, however, characterized by exclu-
sive monopolies of parastatals such as OCTRA, AIR GABON and OPRAG.   Para-
statals are also involved  in lagoon and river transport  (CNI) where some



- 4 -
private operators are also active on certain routes, and in maritime shipping
where the natlonal shipping line is operating within the liner conference
system.  Most parastatals have suffered deficits since they were established
and needed substantial operating and/or capital subsidies. This situation has
worsened during recent years because of stagnating or declining traffic as a
result of the economic slow-down, insufficient control over costs and lack of
tariff  increases.   Restructuring  of  the  transport  parastatals  is  a high
priority of the Government under the SAL (paras 2.09-2.10).
2.06      Transport costs are high, reflecting the generally high level of
costs in the courtrv, and insufficient cost control by the transport para-
statals. In addition, OCTRA has overcapacity, while road transport suffers
from the relatively low standard of the network and insufficient road mainte-
nance. Railway tariffs are about 50% higher than in neighboring countries but
do not cover even direct expenses.
2.07      While  cost  recovery  is  clearly  insufficient  for  the  transport
parastatals with the partial exception of OPRAG, overall cost recovery is
adequate  in  the  road  sector.   Road  user  taxes  are  estimated  at  about
CFAF 19 billion in 1986, of which roughly 50% were from interurban transport
and 50% from urban transport. Road user revenues from interurban road trans-
port were almost three times expenditures on road maintenance in 1986
(CFAF 3.4 billion) and would cover the long-term cost of road maintenance and
rehabilitation. However, preliminary information indicates some cross subsi-
dization between light vehicles and heavy vehicles, as discussed further in
the Transport Strategy Note available in the project file.  During negotia-
tions, the G.overnment agreed that it will carry out a study on road user taxes
and, not later than January 1, 1990, submit to the Bank on this basis, a
program aimed at ensuring that heavy vehicles will contribute appropriately to
the cost of road maintenance.  Thereafter, the Government will implemert the
program in accordance with a timetable agreed with the Bank.  A first -;et of
measures to improve cost recovery for heavy vehicles will be implemented by
July 1,  1990.   Terms  of reference were  discussed  and  agreed  during  loan
negotiations.
B. Sector Strategy and Issues
Parapublic Enterprises
2.08      The Government's Declaration of Development Strategy for the SAL
sets out the following priority measures for the transport sector: (a) appli-
cation of the recommendations of the audits of the parastatal enterprises in
the sector; (b) implementation of an emergency program of road rehabilitation
and maintenance to provide at least minimal access to agricultural and forest-
ry regions; and (c) definition of a strategy for the balanced development of
the various transportation modes.
2.09      During the period 1984-87, the five main transport parastatals had a
cumulative working deficit of CFAF 22 billion, and an operating deficit after
amortization and interest of CFAF 127 billion, on revenues of CFAF 200 bil-
lion. Despite CFAF 23 billion in operating subsidies, their financial situa-
tion deteriorated. Their consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 1987,
shows a long-term debt of some CFAF 20 billion and a negative working capital
of about CFAF 54 billion.  The working deficit of the parastatals was mainly



due to OCTRA with smaller deficits for AIR GABON and CNI, while OPRAG and
SONATRAM at least covered their working expenses.  These deficits are due to
lack of clear objectives and control, both internally and externally; inade-
quate management; overstaffing; Government interference in operations, partic-
ularly in employment and investments; and, m( ' recently, lack of tariff in-
creases.
2.10      Recognizing the seriousness cf the situation,  in early  1987 the
Government started diagnostic audits of the five main transport parastatals as
well as other major parastatals to assess the situation of each.   It will
propose an action program to restructure, privatize or liquidate them to
reduce their burden on the public finances.  Similar studies/audits will be
started shortly for other less important enterprises.  Satisfactory progress
on public enterprise reforms, including adoption of programs to reform at
least 22 parapublic enterprises, are conditions of release of the sicond
tranche of the SAL.  This includes the two main transport parastatal enter-
prises of OCTRA and AIR GABON for which rehabilitation proposals have been
made with implementation to start end 1988.
Transport Planning
2.11      Coordinated transport planning has not been given high priority in
recent years. Such planning is made more difficult by the absence of reliable
information on the sector, and a split in responsibilities.  No comprehensive
analysis of the sector has been carried out since the national transport plan
of 1978.  The Government is aware of the need to improve the collection and
analysis of transport data and this will be assisted under the proposed
project.   From  an administrative  point  of view,  the  transport  sector  is
divided among four ministries:  the office of the First Vice Prime Minister,
inter alia responsible for OCTRA; the Ministry of Transport and Aviation,
responsible for road transport and aviation; the M-fiistry of Public Works,
Equipment, Construction and Territorial Development (MTPECAT) (Annex 2),
responsible for roads and airport construction and maintenance; and the
Ministry of Merchant Marine, responsible for shipping and ports. In addition,
the Ministry of Planning and Economy is responsible for overall coordination
of sector planning.  While focussing mainly on roads, the project will also
provide a sounder basis for transport planning in the future, particularly
after the adjustment period, through the preparation of a master plan for
roads,  and  establishment  of a sectoral data bank.   This  complements  the
measures which are being adopted under the ongoing SAL (para 2.10).  During
negotiations, the Government agreed that, by November 30, 1989, and not later
than November 30 of each year thereafter, it wil' forward to the Bank for its
review and comments its proposed annual transport sector expenditure program
for the subsequent year and finalize this program taking the Bank's comments
into consideration.  This would continue for the sector the general expendi-
ture review initiated under SAL.
C. Bank-financed Transport Projects
2.12      The Bank has not been involved in the transport sector since 1975
when  the  last of two highway projects was  completed.   The First Highway
Project (Loan 385-GA, US$12.0 M, 1964) was for the reconstruction of three
road sections -- N'DJole-Alembe (40 km), Alembe-Ayem (65 km), and Alembe-Lala-
ra (80 km).  The Second highway Project (Loan 580-GA, US$6.0 M, 1969) was for



-6-
the reconstruction of another two road sections, Lalara-Mitzic (55 km) and
Lalara-Koumameyong  (64 km).  All were  laterite roads.   Both projects were
successfully completed in 1968 and 1975, respectively; the latter is discussed
in the Project Performance Audit Report No. 1457 dated February 15, 1977. The
completion of the second project was delayed three years, largely because of
the time needed to procure addi4ional maintenance equipment.  Onfortunately,
because of inadequate road maintenance in recent years, the Bank-financed road
sections have seriously deteriorated.  Maintenance of these roads will form
part of the proposed project.
2.13      In June 1959, the Bank also made a loan of US$35 M to the Manganese
Mining Company, COMILOG,  (240-F).  Although it was largely used to provide
transportation, namely a 76 km cableway between the Ccngo and Gabon and a
285 km railway to link the mine with the existing Congo-Ocean Railway in
Congo, this operation was classified as a mining project.  In 1973, the Bank
was solicited but declined to participate in the financing of the Transgabon-
ese Railway which  it considered not  economically  justified.   Finally,  in
April 1988, IFC approved a loan of US$32 M to COMILOG for the construction of
a mineral terminal, a repair workshop, and provision of rolling stock to
permit the handling of at least half of Gabon's manganese exports of about
2.5 million tons per annum now being shipped through the Congo.  The project
has been substantially completed, and the port facilities were inaugurated at
the end of 1988.
III. THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR
A. The Network
3.01      The road network totals about 7,700 km of which about 700 km are
paved, 1,300 km are modern laterite roads, and 3,300 km are gravel or laterite
surfaced roads.   The remaining  2,400 km are unclassified  earth roads and
tracks serving agricultural areas.  Gabon has one of the lowest densities of
roads in the region with 0.03 km per km2, similar only to neighboring Congo.
By comparison, Cameroon and Nigeria have much higher densities of 0.14 km per
km2 and 0.16 km per km2, respectively.  The interurban road network is divided
into three classes, national, provincial and departmental roads.  The status
of the road network is given in the table which follows.



Road Network (km)
Category             Paved      Unpaved     Total
Expressways                    24           --         24
National roads                476         3,122      3,598
Provincial roads               12         1,089      1,101
Departmental roads             59         2,248      2,307
Urban streets                  117          44         161
Subtotal MTPECAT              688         6,503      7,191
Roads matntained by others --  __                     542
(COMILOG, Port-Gentil, etc.)
Total                                                7,733
of which
classified network amounts to                        5,300
The road network is distributed unevenly across the country, with the denser
network in the populated areas of Franceville, Oyem and Mouila.  The paved
network is largely around Libreville and Franceville.
3.02      The road network has in recent years received insufficient funding
(para 2.02) and has deteriorated to the point that access to many productive
areas is becoming increasingly difficult and costly. Some sections may become
impassable if corrective measures are not taken over the next years.   The
problems are not only those of budgets and irregular release of funds, but
also weaknesses in the existing organization and lack of work programming with
clear  standards  and  control of execution.   Moreover,  there  is a serious
shortage of skilled and competent local staff at all levels in the organiza-
tion with numerous in-line positions being filled out by expatriates.  These
problems are described further below, and correcting them forms the basis of
the proposed road maintenance project.
3.03      The poor state of the road network, combined with heavy rainfall in
most regions of the country, cause major difficulties in transporting agricul-
tural products to markets and contribute to the high cost of transport. This
situation constitutes a serious obstacle to the efforts of the Government to
develop and expand the agricultural sector.
3.04      The road fleet is estimated at about 30,000 vehicles.  It includes
about 2,000 trucks, 800 buses; the remainder are passenger cars, vans, mini-
buses and special purpose vehicles. The growth of the fleet was rapid up to
1977 but slowed down to 2% per year since then. Traffic varies according to
the type of road and the region that it serves. According to a survey con-
ducted in 1984, traffic averaged almost 200 vpd on the national roads, 660 vpd
on the most heavily trafficked roads in urban areas, 90 vpd on regional and
local roads and about 20 vpd on the tracks.  Since 1984, traffic has eased
somewhat because of the country's economic difficulties.  Estimated traffic
distribution by type of roads in 1987 is given in Annex 3.



-8-
B. Planning
3.05      The General Commission for Plan, Development and Economy (GCPDE) in
the Ministry of Planning, Development and Economy (MPDE) is responsible for
overall planning and establishing sectoral priorities.  MTPECAT is in charge
of the management of the road sub-sector including maintenance, rehabilita-
tion, and new construction.  The General Directorate of Studies and Program-
ming (DGEP) in MTPECAT is responsible for the planning and programming of road
works.
3.06      Although planning capacity has been strengthened over recent years
with the assistance of several experts from FAC and consultants in advisory
and in-line positions, a number of serious weaknesses remain. These include:
(a) insufficient planning of new works and periodic road maintenance and
absence of adequate selection and ranking of these works based on economic
analysis; (b) the absence of a comprehensive data bank and insufficient
information on traffic flows, vehicle weights, the actual state of roads,
bridges, and culverts and their rate of deterioration; and (c) lack of infor-
mation on the qualifications of personnel, improper recruitment and training,
and insufficient follow-up on their performance.
3.07      In 1984/85, MTPECAT engaged a consultant to carry our a detailed
study of the Gabon road network and its needs.   The study called for an
extensive road rehabilitation program, the cost of which would call for a
threefold increase of the annual maintenance budget. The proposed program far
exceeded what is feasible, particularly taking into account current financing
possibilities, and is not economically justified in light of current demand
for transport services. This program has now been reduced to the high priori-
ty road maintenance project now proposed.
C. Administration
3.08      The General Directorate of Public Works (DGTP) of MTPECAT is respon-
sible for the construction and maintenance of the road network, while the DGEP
is responsible for planning, carrying out detailed technical studies, and
preparing bid documents for works executed by contract.  DGEP is assisted by
its Road Research Center which provides data on roaci inventory, studies the
impact of construction and maintenance operation on the road network, and
identifies and studies supplies of construction materials.  The DGTP is also
responsible for the operation and maintenance of equipment. Within DGTP, the
Directorate of Transport Infrastructure (DIT) is directly responsible for
construction and maintenance works by contract while the Directorate for Roads
and Airport Maintenance (DERA) is responsible for maintenance works by force
account.  There are four regional sub-directorates, with four sub-divisions
each, and a separate regravelling brigade to ensure the maintenance on the
non-paved road network of about 7,000 km.  With the exception of some manual
works done by the sub-divisions, maintenance of paved roads is contracted out.
3.09      DGTP's Directorate of Equipment (DOM) is responsible for the pro-
curement of equipment, for the supply of spare parts and for major equipment
repairse. It operates a central workshop in Libreville which is adequately
staffed and well equipped. The road maintenance equipment is assigned to the
sub-divisions which are responsible for its operation and for minor repairs.
DOM's fleet includes about 400 units, a large percentage of which, however,



- 9 -
are overaged.  The fleet has become inadequate and many brigades are out of
service  for lack of equipment.   There  is no provision in the budget  for
regular replenishment of worn out equipment.   The  last substantial budget
allocation for equipment renewal dates back to 1984.
3.10      The  organization  and  operation of DOM needs  to be  improved  to
eliminate  the  following  shortcomings:   (a) lack  of  information  regarding
sub-divisions' usage and servicing of equipment; (b) the absence of regional
workshops to repair equipment and provide logistical support for its servic-
ing; (c) high cost of repairs; and (d) the absence of a policy for equipment
replacement.
3.11      The capacity to maintain the road network by the sub-divisions is
handicapped by:  (a) a shortage of equipment and funding; and (b) the organ-
ization of maintenance personnel whose advancement is limited to working in a
sub-division, rather than the more challenging assignments of the main road
system.  This situation is aggravated by the lack of a detailed annual work
programs which would select the highest priority tasks to be undertaken,
establish in advance the work to be carried out, and procure the equipment and
supplies reqtired and the funding needed. There is also a shortage of experi-
enced local staff which is partly compensated by French Bilateral Assistance
(FAC).
3.12      In an effort to remedy the above shortcomings,  the proiect calls
for:  (a) strengthening the capacity of DERA in planning and supervising the
work; (b) raising the output of maintenance crews to established norms;
(c) strengthening the role and authority of the regional directorates over the
subdivisions; (d) carrying out an accelerated program to recruit, train and
promote local staff to take over the majority of those in-line positions now
held by foreigners; and (e) executing certain mechanized works with regional
crews.  The project will also strengthen DOM by establishing regional work-
shops and by providing technical assistance to the workshops and to the
regional directorates. Such assistance will include ail matters involving the
organization of the work crews, the operation and maintenance of equipment,
training of personnel, and budgetary control.
3.13      Lack of adequate training is one of the ma-n deficiencies currently
affecting MTPECAT. The training of personnel of MTPECAT is the responsibility
of the Directorate of Personnel and is carried out by the Technical School for
Public Works at Fougamou (ETTPF) and the Training Center in Libreville.   In
recent years, the activities of these two training schools have been greatly
reduced because of the lack of funding.  They will be revitalized under the
project to resume their role in training maintenance staff, and retraining
personnel in the management and supervision of equipment repair.  The project
also provides for fellowships for specialized training abroad.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A. The Program
4.01      The  Government's  three-year  road  rehabilitation  and  maintenance
program for the period mid 1989-92, as appraised in July 1988, totals some
CFAF 45 billion (US$147 M equivalent) with a foreign exchange cost of about
CFAF 29 billion. During an October 1988 public investment review, it became
clear that the Government was not in a position to finance from its own
resources both the local costs as well as a substantial portion of the foreign
costs of the program.  It was, therefore, decided to give first priority to
the road maintenance components of the program, including related technical
assistance and training and to defer, for the time being, the road rehabilita-
tion works as well as certain periodic maintenance works and the construction
of three new regional workshops.   The proposed project has been reduced,
therefore, to CFAF 34 billion (US$110 M equivalent) with a foreign exchange
cost of CFAF 19 billion (US$61 M equivalent). The roads scheduled for reha-
bilitation would be included in the maintenance program at a later stage,
ranked according to their respective economic priorities. The estimated cost
of these items represents about CFAF 11 billion (US$36 M equivalent).   It is
expected that these works would be included in a subsequent program if and
when additional local and/or foreign funding became available.
B. Project Objectives
4.02      The objectives of the project are to:  (a) preserve Government past
investments in the road network and extend its useful life; (b) optimize the
use of limited Government resources available for road maintenance; (c) main-
tain vehicle operating costs at a reasonable and stable level; (d) improve
access to productive agricultural and forestry areas; (e) develop an indige-
nous capacity to plan, manage and supervise road maintenance and rehabilita-
tion, gradually taking over in-line positions now held by foreigners; and
(f) initiate changes in policies regarding the organization and methods of
execution of road maintenance. To meet these objectives, the road maintenance
project will be executed over a four-year period (mid 1989-93). It covers all
of the Government's activities in the road sector  investments as well as
maintenance.  The work program will be reviewed  annually and adjusted  to
reflect the conditions and needs of the road network as well as available
funding.
C. Project Description
4.03      The project components are:
(a) The carrying out by contract, including related supervision, of a
three-year program of road maintenance, comprising:
(i) routine maintenance (patching) and periodic maintenance on
approximately 460 km of priority paved roads;
(ii) improved maintenance of some 1,300 km of heavily-trafficked
modern, unpaved roads; and



- il -
(iii) urgent repairs on about 29 steel bridges spread over the road
network.
(b)  The  carrying out of a program of routine maintenance  and  spot
rehabilitation, by strengthened departmental force account units, on
some 5,200 km of unpaved roads in the first year to be expanded to
some 6,500 km of unpaved roads by the third year, including:
(i)  the operation  of mechanized  and  labor-intensive maintenance
units (about 27 and 37, respectively, during the first year, to
be expanded to about 34 and 47 units by the third year);
(ii)  management and operational. improvement of the existing equip-
ment pool, including the rehabilitation of existing equipment;
(iii) purchase of additional road maintenance equipment;
(iv)  improvement of three regional workshops (Franceville, Mouila,
and Oyem);
(v)  purchase of workshop equipment for the three regional workshops
and for about 15 existing sub-divisional workshops; and
(vi)  the initia] replenishment of the stock of spare parts.
(c)  The training of road maintenance staff, including:
(i)  the carrying out of a training program for personnel of the
mechanized maintenance units by means of a new Training Produc-
tion Unit (TPU) to be established within ETTPF, including the
purchase of road maintenance equipment, training equipment, and
the operation of the TPU;
(ii)  the preparation and execution of seminars and refresher courses
at the Training Center in Libreville to upgrade the skills of
existing staff at all levels, from top managers to low level
technicians, including the provision -f fellowships and the
acquisition of training equipment;
(d) Institutional strengthening of MTPECAT through the provision of
technical assistance and the acquisition of computer equipment and
vehicles to improve capabilities in:
(i)  the planning, execution, management,  and supervision of road
maintenance  programs,   including  equipment  management  and
operations;
(ii)  the coordination and implementation of road maintenance train-
ing activities;
(iii) the monitoring of project execution; and
(iv)  the setting up of a cost accounting system for all road mainte-
nance activities.



- 12 -
(e) The carrying out of technical and economic studies for the develop-
ment of the road sector, including the preparation of a road master
plan, studies regarding traffic, road conditions, and materials and
support to the Road Research Center through the acquisition of
equipment, vehicles and supplies.
Road Maintenance Program by Contract
4.04      Routine and periodic maintenance of the main modern unpaved and the
paved roads under the program will be carried out by contractors. The list of
roads and bridges scheduled under this program and cost estimates are given in
Annex 4-1. The program will be reviewed annually on the basis of performance
in previous years, needs and available funding. At loan negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained from the Government that the annual program to be executed
in the following year will be submitted to the Bank for approval by Novem-
ber 30 of each year starting on November 30, 1989.
4.05      Three distinct categories of work are involved in the program by
contract:
(a) Improved maintenance over two years of about 1,300 km of main earth
roads which were rehabilitated or regravelled during the last five
years.  These works consist of regravelling and compacting, brush
clearing, cleaning of ditches and drainage systems, and maintenance
of structures. At the end of the second year, these works would be
continued by the Government's force account units which, by then,
will have been strengthened.
(b) The maintenance for a period of three years of about 460 km of paved
roads.  The works in the first year involve repair of the carri-
ageway through patching, localized reconstruction and renewal of the
surface course.  Second year works consist of routine maintenance,
and third year works will be limited to pavement maintenance.   In
some cases, particularly on severely cracked sections, a single
surface treatment will also be provided.  By the end of the second
year, routine maintenance involving brush clearing, drainage,
shoulder repairs, etc., would also be co' -inued by force account
units.
(c) The repair of about 29 steel bridges. The works include rehabilita-
tion of the bridges, general cleaning, replacement of missbng and
deteriorated  parts  and  painting  of  the  steel  works.   Fourteen
bridges  are  listed  separately  in Annex 4-1.   The  remaining  15
bridges are located on roads lncluded in the maintenance program by
contract.
The supervision of the above works will be entrusted to one or more consulting
firms with participation of Government personnel.
Road Maintenance Program by Force Account
4.06      This program includes the initial strengthening of the capacity of
MTPECAT's DGTP (para 3.08) to maintain some 5,200 km of earth roads.   In a
second stage, starting in the third year, this capacity would be increased to



- 13 -
cover all earth roads under the responsibility of MTPECAT (about 6,500 km).
In view of the limited available financial resources and the insufficient
force account maintenance capacity, an optimal level of maintenance is not
possible in the short term.  Therefore, during the project period, a minimum
level of service consistent with demand will be provided throughout the road
network in line with available maintenance capacity, especially of equipment.
The needs for routine maintenance are expressed in terms of the number of
specialized brigades needed to carry out a planned annual volume of mainte-
nance work,  in accordance with specific output standards  (Annex 4-2).   The
number and type of maintenance units have been estimated on the basis of the
existing sub-divisions, the length of the road network and the categories of
roads for which they are responsible.  Average standards for routine mainte-
nance have been set as follows:
Minimum Number of Passes per Year
Dry    Crading/     Partial
Roads Category, Type             Length    Grading  Compacting  Regravelling
National and Provincial (Modern, Laterized)  260 km      2        1.0          0.3
National and Provincial (Ordinary, Laterized)    1,420 km  1      0.5          0.3
Departmental (Laterized)                     420 km      1        0.5          0.3
NR + PR + DR (Improved Feeder Roads)        1,950 km     1 
NR + PR + DR (Unimproved Feeder Roads)       950 km      1         --           --
Labor-based Maintenance Operations:  1 unit per 80-120 km section of earth and paved roads
(with the exception of unimproved feeder roads).
The number of passes on important national and provincial roads might be
modified to meet needs and traffic levels.
4.07      The  project  calls  for  the  mobilization  in  the  first  year  of
37 labor-based maintenance units, as well as 27 mechanized units.  The latter
includes, besides the departmental units, country-wide, five dry grading
units, four grading/compacting units, and the four existing rehabilitation
units.   The numbers will be  increased  to 47 labor-based and  34 mechanical
units by the third year to take over the maintenance of the most heavily
trafficked laterite roads which will initially be maintained by contract under
the project.   In addition,  ten divisional  field  offices  ..1ll get  a road
regravelling unit to provide for emergency maintenance and partial regrav-
elling intervention capacity.   This will also provié  for the rehabilitation
of some feeder roads. The regravelling units will be used for rehabilitation,
restoration and resurfacing of the laterized wearing course at the rate of
40-60 km/year/unit. This work includes the rehabilitation of certain sections
of the main national roads.  The force account work program will be reviewed
annually on the basis of performance in previous years, needs and available
funding.   In the carrying out of the maintenance program, priority will be
given to those roads which serve productive areas, particularly existing
agricultural areas, and, in particular, those roads which were originally
included in the rehabilitation program. At loan negotiations, the Government
agreed that the proposed annual programs to be executed during the following
year will be submitted to the Bank for approval by November 30 of each year
starting November 30, 1989.
4.08      Road maintenance practices will be improved at the planning and
organization levels.   Equipment and personnel will be grouped in the mecha-
nized units to optimize execution of road maintenance in accordance with a



- 14 -
detailed program based on output targets. The implementation of this program
will be continually monitored at every level of responsibility. To reach the
targets, the mechanized units with a regional focus (dry grading, compacting
and regravelling) will be responsible to the regional sub-directorates whose
supervisory personnel will be strengthened accordingly.  A program for the
purchase and supply of fuel and lubricants, spare parts, culverts, timber and
materials will be set up at the onset of the maintenance program and imple-
mented through long-term contracts, subject to annual reviews and revisions
(para 4.28).
4.09      Labor-based maintenance  performance will be  increased  under  the
program through the provision of new means of transport and an adequate
operating  budget.   Labor-based  maintenance  units  will  focus  mainly  on:
(a) regular monitoring and intervention on the entire network; (b) emergency
repairs following rainfall or other factors; and (c) routine maintenance of
bridges and culverts.
4.10      The project also provides for the strengthening of the Directorate
of Equipment's (DOM) capacity to manage and maintain equipment through:
(a)  rehabilitation of some  70 pieces of equipment  still usable  (An-
nex 4-3);
(b)  replenishment  of the stock of spare parts and supplies  for the
start-up and the first year of operation of the program; and
(c)  scrapping of approximately  140 pieces  of obsolete  equipment  too
costly to repair.
Also, about 200 pieces of equipment (trucks, graders and light vehicles), to
be managed and maintained by DOM, will be purchased under the project (pa-
ra 4.28) to complete the mechanized units for the program (Annex 4-4).  To
enhance DOM's equipment repair and rehabilitation capacity, repair opera;ions
will be decentralized in four regional workshops.   Three of these (France-
ville, Mouila, and Oyem) will be established and equipped under the project,
while the central workshop in Libreville will be further strengthened.
4.11      Other  improvements  to  the DOM will  invoive  better  planning  of
repairs, computerized spare parts management, regular supplv of parts on the
basis of contracts (para 4.28), and the establishment of an accounting system
designed to produce reliable data on equipment operating costs. The technical
assistance effort at DOM will foeus in particular on improving management of
equipment, repairs, and systematic eauipment inspections.
Training Program
4.12      The maintenance program by force account will require approximately
400 qualified  field  personnel.   A  large  part  of  the  work  force  in  the
sub-divisional field offices needs retraining.  New staff to be recruited to
fill the gaps left by attrition and turnover will also need training. Approx-
imately 120 supervisory and managerial staff will also receive instruction in
the new methods and procedures to be established under the project.



- 15 -
4.13      MTPECAT's existing training facilities will be improved to provide
the required training.   The estimated cost of the training program is con-
tained in Annex 4-5; an outline of the training program is presented in
Annex 4-6. It includes:
(a) On-the-job retraining of personnel to staff the 34 mechanized
maintenance units by means of a TPU to be established at the ETTPF.
The school's existing accommodations, facilities and staff will be
strengthened.   New equipment will be purchased,  including  light
vehicles and training equipment, and technical assistance will be
provided  to  the  TPU.   Three-month  retraining  sessions  will  be
provided in the following specialities: head foremen, crew foremen,
equipment operators, drivers and maintenance mechanics. Only those
staff deemed to be qualified at the completion of the session will
be assigned to a mechanized unit.
(b) Vocational training of newly hired staff, including approximately
80 persons to be trained over the period as light and heavy vehicle
drivers, carpenters and masons. This four-month long training will
be provided by ETTPF.
(c) Seminars and refresher courses at the Training Center in Libreville
for supervisorv and managerial personnel from DGTP's headquarters
and field offices.
(d) Study trips to neighboring countries and fellowships for superviso-
ry, managerial and technical staff.
Institutional Strengthening
4.14      The present organization of MTPECAT will be strengthened to carry
out the project, and the DGTP will be reorganized.  This would be achieved
with the help of technical assistance, computerization of planning and manage-
ment functions, and training of staff.  The main functions of the technical
assistance are:
(a) to assist DGTP in improving the organizatilr and efficiency of road
maintenance and equipment management, and defining and carrying-out
the maintenance project;
(b) to participate in the preparation of bidding documents, equipment
procurement, and management of works;
(c) to coordinate and implement the training program; and
(d)  to monitor the execution of the project.
4.15      To carry out  the project,  the staff  in place  at DGTP will be
strengthened through the provision of additional technical assistance as well
as through the reassignment of specialist staff provided through FAC. Thirty
and one half staff-years of technical assistance would be provided under the
project as follows:



- 16 -
Staff-years
(a) Maintenance programs by force account and contract (8 experts)            16.0
(b) Equipment management and operations (3 experts)                            5.5
(c) Training program (2 experts)                                               9.0
(d) Institutional strengthening and general management (1 expert + short-term missions)    4.0
Total of 14 specialists over 1.5 to 3 years                                30.5
Technical assistance under the project would be provided by specialized con-
sulting firms.  The duties, assignments, duration and profile of the experts
as outlined in Annex 4-7, and their tzrms of reference as given in Annex 4-8,
were discussed and confirmed at negotiations.  The level of technical assis-
tance is substantial but temporary and reflects the important increase in the
road maintenance effort during the prcject period as well as the changeover to
a properly planned, programmed and monitored maintenance effort to assure
efficient use of the limited resources available for road maintenance.   In
line with the Government's policy to reduce sharply its future dependence on
foreign technical assistance, and in order to build up the local capacity, the
technical assistance will involve substantial on-the-job training of existing
and newly recruited local staff.   Four of the technical assistants will be
exclusively  concerned  with  training.   The  technical  assistance  has  been
programmed for a gradual but sizeable reduction in line with the development
of local expertise.  The Zovernment will, as part of the action plan, assign
qualified staff for training and as counterparts to the experts and, as keys
to achieve sustainable institutional development, introduce work incentives
and assure maximum staff stability.
4.16      The project also provides for the purchase of equipment to computer-
ize the records of DERA and DOM (Annex 4-9), and for the procurement of light
vehicles for DGTP's headquiarters. These lists were confirmed at loan negoti-
ations.
Studies/Road Research Center
4.17      This component includes, on the one hand, technical and economic
studies for the development of the road sector, name  , an origin-destination
traffic study, the preparation of a road master plan, and various other
economic and technical studies to improve sector planning. These studies will
be entrusted to consulting firms. In addition, on the other hand, the project
will strergthen the existing Road Research Center of DGEP and provide for
vehicles, supplies and operating funds. Traffic counting equipment, axle load
weigh scales, road roughness measurirg devices, computer equipment and vehi-
cles would be provided for the Road Research Center to continue its work
program on road management and the establishment of a data bank. The indica-
tive lists of studies and supplies, with cost estimates,  are given in An-
nex 4-10 and were confirmed at loan negotiations.
D. Project Costs and Financing
4.18      The  total  cost  of  the project,  including  taxes  and  duties,  is
estimated at US$110 M equivalent, with a foreign exchange cost of US$61 M or
56% of the total cost.  The estimated cost of each component, provided in



- 17 -
detail in Annex 4-11 and in supporting documents in the Project File, is
summarized below.
----- USS million ----------------
Item                        Lozal      Taxes      Foreign      Total
1. Road Maintenance by Contract             7.5        4.5         18.7         30.7
2. Road Maintenance by Force Account       16.1        10.5        25.0        51.6
3. Training                                 0.8         0.8         2.2         3.8
4. Institutional Strengthening              0.4         1.0        4.4          5.8
5. Studies                                  0.2        0.3          1.9         2.4
Subtotal                                25.0       17.1        52.2         94.3
Physical Contingencies                   1.2        0.9         2.6          4.7
Price   Contingencies                    2.6        2.1         6.3         11.0
Total                                   28.8       20.1        61.1        110.0
°%O                                       26         18          56          100
The estimated cost by component and financing is given in Annex 4-12.  Cost
estimates were confirmed at loan negotiations.
4.19      The cost estimates for maintenance works by contract are based on
existing studies for most of the roads, and on the prices of recent contracts
for the same tvpe of work.  The costs of materials, equipment repairs, spare
parts and new equipment were estimated on the basis of suppliers' prices as of
October 1988. The cost estimates for the purchase of new equipment include an
allowance of 12.5% for spare parts.   The operating cost of the mechanized
units is calculated on the basis of 150 working days per year and the actual
consumption of fuel and materials observed in other countries of the region.
Cost estimates do not include depreciation of equipment. The cost of consult-
ing services for technical assistance has been estimated on the basis of
actual costs of such services in Gabon and include salary costs, fees, includ-
ing company overhead costs, international travel, local subsistence and
transport, related supplies and report preparation end taxes (18%). The costs
reflect the senior level of expertise required, including substantial African
experience.   Physical contingencies representing 5% of the total cost have
been added to allow for variations in the volume of work executed by contract
(15%) and for minor changes in the list of materials and equipment.  Price
contingencies of 12% of the total cost have been included in line wit.l recent
trends in Gabon and expected changes in international prices.
4.20      The Government would contribute  to the financing of the project
through  its  recurrent  budget   (US$26.2 M)  and  its  investment  budget
(US$22.7 M).  The Bank and AfDB would provide US$30.0 M and 31.1 M, respec-
tively.  FAC would contribute to the project by providing technical assistance
through reassignment of positions already provided to the Government of Gabon.
The latter, estimated at about US$1.0 M equivalent, and shared equally by FAC
and the Government, has not been included in the project cost estimate since
it does not constitute additional costs related to the project. The proposed
financing is summarized in the table which follows.



- 18 -
Summay£ Financing Plan
(U$million)
Government
Item                  RB/a       IB /b   IBRD   AfDB    Total
1. Road maintenance by contract       --    15.5       --   24.2       39.7
2. Road maintenance by force account    24.3  5.5    21.7    6.9       58.4
3. Training                          1.9       --      2.1     --       4.0
4. Institutional strengthening        --      1.2      4.2     --       5.4
5. Studies                            --      0.5     2.0      --       2.5
Total (including contingencies)      26.2    22.7    30.0   31.1    110.0
of which taxes                   --   (20.1)                     (20.1)
/a Recurrent Budget provides for personnel costs and operating expenses.
/b Investment Budget.
4.21      The proposed Bank loan would  finance 27% of total project cost,
estimated at US$110 M equivalent, of which US$20.1 M are taxes. The Bank loan
would primarily finance the incremental expenditures for road maintenance by
force account, such as equipment rehabilitation and purchases of additional
equipment and vehicles, spare parts, improvement to equipment workshops, fuel
and materials, technical assistance, computer equipment, studies, fellowships,
etc. The AfDB loan would be mainly for road maintenance by contract, includ-
ing its supervision and equipment needed, particularly by the force account
units to provide continued maintenance of these roads.  The Government would
contribute to the operating expenditures for the road maintenance by force
account through the financing of personnel costs and other local costs and to
the maintenance by contract by covering local costs including all taxes.
4.22      The financing plan calls for IBRD financing of foreign costs of
individual contracts although the overall contribution of IBRD represents only
about 50% of foreign costs of the total project.   The balance of foreign
exchange costs is expected to be met by AfDB.  The Bank and AfDB financing
will be for separate items which will be executed independently of each other.
To help the Government during the initial phase of the adjustment period and
in light of the priority to be given to road maintenance, the Bank's financing
would be provided on a declining basis for the finaincing of consumables for
road maintenance. Details are provided in the disbursement table (para 4.30).
4.23      The financing plan was confirmed with the Government during loan
negotiations.
E. Implementation
4.24      MTPECAT will be responsible for implementing the project.  Actual
implementation of the project will be entrusted to DGTP except for:  (a) the
road studies to be carried out by the DGEP (para 4.17); and (b) the training
programs (paras 4.12 and 4.13) to be carried out by the Directorate of Person-
nel and the training  schools in cellaboration with DGTP.   The day-to-day
monitoring of the project will be provided by DERA, DOM and DIT. MTPECAT has
already appointed a project coordinator. It was agreed at negotiations that a
qualified and experienced project coordinator will be kept on post.



- 19 -
4.25       The  project was  designed  to be  implemented  over  a  three-year
period, 1989-92, as shown in Annex 4-13.  However, as some slippage is possi-
ble, a four-year implementation period, mid-1989-93, has been assumed.   It
will start in 1989 with the strengthening of capabilities to execute mainte-
nance work by force account.  Training of the mechanized unit personnel is
expected to start early 1989, financed from the Government's own resources.
The rehabilitation of equipment and the delivery of an initial stock of spare
parts would be completed by mid 1989, in time for the 1989 dry season.  Part
of the equipment rehabilitation, purchase of vehicles, start-up of consultant
services, and delivery of the initial stock of spare parts would be done
before loan effectiveness.   The expenditures related to the above incurred
subsequent to project appraisal (July 1988), but before loan effectiveness,
are eligible for retroactive financing. The total cost of these expenditures
is estimated at US$2.7 M, of which US$2.0 M would be eligible for retroactive
financing. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
4.26      DGTP will be reorganized under the project tO enable it tO carry out
routine and periodic road maintenance by force account more efficientl-.  The
reorganization will, in particular, apply to the programming, budgetiug and
road monitoring activities.  The labor-based road maintenance operations, the
maintenance of bridges and culverts, partial regravelling and improvement of
feeder roads will be carried out by the sub-divisions on the basis of annual
programs and operating budgets approved by DGTP at the start of the annual
maintenance operation. Regrading and regravelling operations will be carried
out by the regiona] sub-directorates under an operating budget and a work
program covering the entire road network in a region.   Sub-divisions will
provide the necessary technical and logistical support to the maintenance
crews operating on the respective network assigned to them.  Equipment pur-
chased under the project and the rehabilitated existing equipment will be
permanently assigned to the maintenance units. A cost accounting system will
be established and will cover all maintenance activities.  Accounts will be
prepared annually and will show primarily the use of funds, the outputs
achieved and costs of maintenance operations.  The force account maintenance
program and the budget established and approved at the beginning of each
maintenance year will be monitored to ensure regular and systematic mainte-
nance of the national road network.  A 5% margin, which was included in the
force account maintenance program, would be used, with the prior authorization
of MTPECAT, to finance urgent works which are not part of the regular agree-
ment with the Bank.   In addition,  an amount of CFAF 300 million will be
reserved to provide for MTPECAT's prompt intervention to repair by contract
serious damages to some roads and bridges that could close them to traffic.
4.27      The volume of maintenance to be executed by contract will require
detailed programming and a thorough and systematic monitoring of procurement,
management and execution of work. The Directorate of Transport Infrastructure
(DIT) will be strengthened by the provision of two experts (para 4.14).
Consulting firms will provide site supervision of the works. DGTP's available
technical personnel would be assigned to supervision teams to be trained on
the job. During loan negotiations, the Government agreed that it will imple-
ment the road maintenance project in accordance with the action plan in
Annex 4-14.



- 20 -
F. Procurement
4.28      The Bank loan would participate in the f inancing of (a) workshop
rehabilitation to be awarded by cortract following LCB; (b) equipment purchase
by ICB, rehabllitation by contract following LCB and by force account by DOM
through the use of the initial spare part replenishment; (c) the replenishment
of spare parts stock, tools, computer equipment and vehicles to be procured
either through ICB for suitable lots, through LCB for spares that can be
supplied locally from different suppliers or through negotiated contracts,
acceptable to the Bank, for reasons of compatibility with existing equipment
and for installations; (d) consumables for road maintenance operations such as
fuel, lubricants, spare parts, tires, batteries, materials (cement, bitumen,
crushed stones, etc.), metal culverts, etc., to be procured either through ICB
for suitable bulk purchases or LCB for routine materials such as fuel, lubri-
cants, bitumen, crushed stones, spares, tires, batteries, etc., when locally
available and needed frequently throughout the country and the maintenance
operations period as well as on the basis of negotiated contracts for spares
or local tendering for routine supplies such as fuel, lubricants, tires and
batteries needed sometimes on an urgent basis; (e) consultant's services for
technical assistance, studies, construction supervision and training awarded
on the basis of the Bank's procedures for hiring consultants; (f) supplies for
operational support services for the TPU, such as fuel, lubricants, spares,
materials, etc., which would not be purchased together with the consumables
for road maintenance, as well as operating expenses and supplies for the
management of the project and the operations of the Road Research Center; and
(g) fellowships and study trips abroad.   These arrangements were confirmed
during loan negotiations.
4.29      The AfDB would finance maintenance works by contract including the
supervision thereof by consultants as well the additional equipment required,
particularly by force account units to provide continued maintenance of these
roads. Procurement of these works, services and equipment would be in accor-
dance with AfDB procurement guidelines, and financing would be jointly by the
Government and AfDB.



- 21 -
4.30       Amounts and procurement methods are estimated as follows:
Amounts and Methode of Procurement /a
(US$ million equivalent)
Item                            ICB    LCB    Other   N/A    Total
1. Civil works by contract
(a) Maintenance                                  38.2     --      --    -       38.2
(b) Workshop rehabilitation                       --    1.0       --    --       1.0
(-) (0.6)    (- (-)        (0.6)
2. Equipment rehabilitation, purchase,               18.8    0.5      2.0    --      21.3
replenishment of the initial spare parts stock,    (3.4)  (0.3)   (1.3)  (--)    (5.0)
tools, computer equipment, and vehicles
3. Consumables for road maintenance, including fuel,  11.6    5.2     6.0  14.6 /b  37.4
lubricants, spare parts, tires, batteries, etc.    (8.0)  (4.5)   (3.9)  (--)   (16.4)
4. Consultant's services for construction supervision,  --     --     9.5    --       9.5
technical assistance and studies                    (--)   (--)   (6.7)  (--)    (6.7)
5. Supplies for operational support services for TPU   --             2.2    --       2.2
and Road Research Center                            (--)   (--)   (1.0)  (-)      (1.0)
6. Fellowships                                         --      --     0.4    --       0.4
(--)   (--)   (0.3)  (--)    (0.3)
Total                                                 68.6    6.7    20.1  14.6    110.0
(11.4)  (5.4)  (13.2)  (--)   (30.0)
/a Including contingencies.  Amounts in ( ) indicate proposed IBRD participation.
/b Operating cos,s not subject to procurement.
4.31       Workshop rehabilitation would be done in three different lots which
could be combined. Because of the small size of individual contracts and the
regional distribution, they would be awarded under local competitive proce-
dures which have been reviewed  and are acceptable  to the Bank.   Equipment
purchases, the replenishment of the initial spare parts stock, bulk purchases
of tools, as vell as bulk purchases of spare parts, lubricants, tires, batter-
ies and alike, would be grouped as much as possible into lots of over US$1 M
equivalent  for ICB.   Tools,  computer equipment, vehicles,  fuel,  lubricants,
and other spares which cannot be grouped in lots of US$1,000,000 would be
procured either following bidding advertised locally for up to a total amount
of US$5 M or through international shopping with quotations from at least
three suppliers for individual contracts up to US$200,000 and for a total
amount of US$2 M.   Local  shopping would  apply  to  the  same categories  for
US$100,000 per contracts  for a total amount not to exceed US$2.2 M.   Spare
parts for a total amount of US$3,0 M can also, for reasons of compatibility
with existing equipment and installations, be procured under negotiated



- 22 -
contracts awarded to the original suppliers on terms and conditions to be
approved by the Bank.   Supplies for operational support services for T'PU and
the Road Research Center for a total amount not to exceed US$2.0 M, and
individual contracts not to exceed US$100,000 each, would be awarded on the
basis of quotations from at least three suppliers.
4.32       Consultants'  services for a total amount of US$11.i M of which the
Bank would finance US$7.1 M would be procurod in accordance with Bank guide-
lines on hiring of consultants insofar as .echnical assistance is concerned
and  AfDB  guidelines  for  construction  supervision.   Fellowships  would  be
contracted on the basis of negotiated contracts.
4.33       Since there are no local manufacturers of spare parts, tires, etc.,
there would be no preference for local manufacturers. Bank-financed contracts
in excess of US$3.0 M would be subject to prior review and smaller contracts
would be subject to selective post-award review.
G. Disbursements
4.34       Disbursements  from  the  loan will be made based  on contracts and
statements of expenditure eligible for Bank financing as follows:
Allocation and Disbursement Categories
(US$ million equivalent)
Amount         % of Expenditures
Category                          Allocated         to be financed
1. Civil works for improvement of Regional Workshops      0.6                 60%
2. Equipment, tools, vehicles, initial stock of spare
parts, computers.
(a) rehabilitation of equipment                     1.0                 75%
(b) purchase                                        2.6                 65%
3. Consumables
(a) for road maintenance                           14.5         75% through 12/31/90
(b) for the TPU                                     0.7            55% thereafter
4. Consultant's services for:
(a) technical assistance                            4.2                 80%
(b) studies, seminars                               2.3                 80%
5. Supplies for operational support services              0.9        75% through 12/31/90
55% thereafter
6. Fellowships                                            0.2                100%
7. Unallocated                                            3.0
Total                                                    30.0



- 23 -
4.35      The loan would be disbursed over a six-year period, FY89-94, as
follows:
Typ-e      FY89    FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
------------------ (UFTmillion------------------
Annual         2.0     7.0      7.5    7.0    5.0    1.5
Cumulative     2.0     9.0    16.5   23.5   28.5   30.0
This is slightly faster than the regional disbursement profile of 6.5 years
and reflects the fact that most tender documents have already been prepared
and that some tendering will thus be initiated before loarn effectiveness.
4.36      Disbursements for civil works (Category 1), purchase of equipment,
tools, vehicles, initial stock of spare parts, computers (Category 2(b)),
consultants' services (Category 4) and fellowships (Category 6) would be
equivalent to estimated foreign exchange costs of expenditures. Disbursements
for rehabilitation of equipment (Category 2(a)), to be executed early during
project implementation, would involve some local cost financing to help in
project start-up. Similarly, consumables for road maintenance (Category 3(a))
and for the TPU (Category 3(b)) as well as supplies for operatîonal support
services, namely for training and the Road Research Center (Category 5), would
be financed on a declining basis over the project period.  The average dis-
bursement rate for these categories would be equivalent to the foreign ex-
change cost.  The loan would be fully disbursed by December 31, 1993.  The
estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 4-15.
4.37      Disbursements for consumables for road maintenance (Category 3) and
supplies  for operational  support  services  (Category 5) would be based on
certified statements of expenditure.   Contracting of up to US$50,000 each
would qualify for SOE.
4.38      Rehabilitation of equipment and purchase of vehicles and the initial
stock of spare parts (Category 2) would be eligible for retroactive financing
for a total amount not to exceed US$2.0 M. Disbursement categories and rates
were confirmed at loan negotiations.
4.39      To facilitate project execution, a special account to be operated as
a revolving fund for project expenditures will be opened at the Banque des
Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) in Libreville.  The terms and conditions
for operating this account were agreed at negotiations. This account will be
replenished from the proceeds of the Bank Loan under the statement of expenses
procedure for minimum amount of US$0.5 M, and will cover the Bank's share of
expenditures for the project.  An initial deposit of US$2.0 M will be dis-
bursed from the loan after the loan becomes effective, upon receipt of a
withdrawal request.
H. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.40      Consolidated project accounts would be maintained by MTPECAT.  The
consolidated accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
The audit report would convey the auditor's opinion on the adequacy of the
procedures used for the preparation and verification of statements of expendi-
tures and their accuracy, eligibility for financing in accordance with legal



- 24 -
agreements, and the standard for record keeping and internal controls.  The
special  account would be  subject  to annual  audit.   The Government  would
forward the audit reports to the Bank within six months after the close of
each calendar year.  Quarterly reports on project progress would be prepared
by MTPECAT and submitted  to the Bank.   The MTPECAT would also prepare a
project completion report within six months of the Closing Date. The auditing
and reporting arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Methodology
5.01      The Road Maintenance Project aims at stopping and reversing the
deterioration of existing road infrastructure.  The objective is to restore
and maintain a reasonable service level of the network in the short run, while
laying the foundations for improved road maintenance following the adjustment
period.
5.02      The  economic  evaluation prepared by the Government  comprised an
evaluation of each road proposed for maintenance by contract under the proj-
ect.  It also provided an overall justification of the force account mainte-
nance program. Separate evaluations were not made of the technical assistance
and training programs although the relevant costs were included in the evalua-
tion of the force account maintenance program.
5.03      As part of project preparation, the Public Works Laboratory and the
Road Research Center inspected, in early 1988, some 3,000 km of main roads.
Traffic counts were carried out in 1987/88 on 80 road sections covering some
5,300 km.
5.04      Periodic maintenance of 29 bridges will average about US$50,000 per
bridge. MTPECAT carried out a detailed technical assessment of each bridge to
determine the need for these works, but no economic evaluation was made.  In
most cases, there would be no alternative route if a bridge collapsed and
therefore, its repair is fully economically justified.
5.05      The main benefit  taken into account  in the economic  evaluation
concerns savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) from normal traffic in
situations with and without the project; time savings were not taken into
account.  HDM III was used by the Government to estimate VOCs for different
road conditions. Benefits from generated traffic were only taken into account
in the case of earth roads in poor condition.   Value-added from increased
agricultural output was only included in the case of three earth roads to be
rehabilitated,  but  these works were  subsequently deferred.   The  proposed
project is, however, essential for the achievement and success of the actions
currently undertaken in the agricultural sector.  The immediate beneficiaries
of the project will be road users:   the owners of vehicles,  passengers,
traders, farmers and consumers.
5.06      Traffic  counts  for  the period  1984-87  show  a general  downward
tendency in traffic reflecting the economic and financial crisis since 1986.
No normal traffic growth was taken into account in the economic evaluation.



- 25 -
In the instances where generated traffic was taken into account, these were
estimated at 25%.
B. Economic Returns
5.07      The overall rate of return of the project is estimated at about 55%.
Contract maintenance of earth roads yields a rate of return of about 100%
ranging from a low of 14% for light trafficked roads to over 200% in the case
of the most heavily trafficked ones  (300 vpd).  Major contract maintenance
works of paved roads yields an ERR of about 26%, ranging from 12% to over 60%.
Separate economic analysis was not carried out for paved sections receiving
only minor works.  The overall rate of return for contract works, including
bridge repairs for which no separate economlc evaluation was carried out was
about  90%.   Annex 5-1 provides more  detailed  information on the economic
evaluation of contract works.
5.08      The rate of return on the force account maintenance works is esti-
mated at 43%, taking into account the costs of equipment purchases, operating
costs, technical assistance and training, on the one hand, and estimated voc
savings, on the other. A sensitivity analysis with 20% lower benefits shows
an ERR of 24%.  Annex 5-2 indicates the basic assumptions used.  Such high
rates of return are not uncommon for maintenance projects and reflect the fact
that the initial investment in road construction is treated as a sunk cost.
5.09      During  loan  negotiations,  the  Government  agreed  that  it would
include in the annual investment program for roads, only works which are
technically  and  economically  justified  with  projects   in  excess   of
CFAF 200 million having an estimated rate of return of at least 10%. However,
in order to permit the Government to intervene quickly to meet urgent repairs,
the project includes a provision of CFAF 300 million for contract works for
which prior agreement with the Bank is not required (para 4.26).  The force
account maintenance program also includes a provision of 5% for non-programmed
works of special local interest (para 4.26).
C. Risks
5.10      The main risks are:  first, the possibility -f not achieving all the
institutional objectives, including performance targets for force accourt
works; and second, that there will be an insufficient level of funding for
road maintenance or delays in the availability of such funds. A further risk
is local pressure  to do non-program works.   The annual review of sector
expenditures, the substantial initial input of technical assistance, and the
high priority given by the Government to the project, together with the
overall dialogue with the Government in connection with the structural adjust-
ment process, should help reduce these risks.
D. Environmental Implications
5.11      The project has no significant negative environmental implications
as it involves basically periodic and routine maintenance, as well as institu-
tion building. The project is, in fact, likely to have a positive environmen-
tal impact through the removal of stagnating water and wild bush growth along
the  roads.   The maintenance  works,  including  the  bridge  repairs,  should
contribute to public health and safety.



- 26 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that it will:
(a)  study the question of road user taxes for heavy vehicles, submit to
the Bank by January 1, 1990 a program aimed at ensuring that heavy
vehicles contribute appropriately to the cost of road maintenance,
and, thereafter, implement the program in accordance with an agreed
timetable (para 2.07);
(b)  consult with the Bank annually before November 30 of each year
regarding its annual transport sector expenditure program for the
subsequent year (para 2.11);
(c)  submit to the Bank for review and comment by November 30 of each
year starting November 30, 1989, the annual programs for road
maintenance by force account (para 4.07);
(d)  a project coordinator will be kept on post (para 4.24);
(e)  implement the road maintenance program in accordance with the agreed
action plan (para 4.27); and
(f)  include in the annual road program only works which are technically
and economically justified with an ERR of at least 10% (para 5.09).
6.02      The proposed project is suitable for a loan of US$30.0 M equivalent
on standard terms to the Gabonese Republic.
AFIN
March 16, 1989



RÉPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
(GABONESE REPUBLIC)
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
(ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT>
ORGANIGRAMME
|U TE DU TRAVAUX PUUM% DE LIOUPNT DE A CM.    Et DE L*INAGET Du TUUTOfE
1                         ,- _-                   .                                               Mm  . v
PArXJEt. UEEMMT                             __. _ . } l 
; WC( I P^RT I x-i43    _   _MULMM                              COPA_ [M              i              <
F£MCUFoe~o
OEWAÆ $ICBO_ _                                                                                 dO
RJl CETR FXM% W                                                                                                        T PP|__
[i-111 ~~~~~~~~~e~m
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EtPMON  EX |»  
L  1  1t L I 1 1l 1 1~~~~~~~~~~r 
t |  ES  | (   i  i ~~~~~~F£ffEMECFX                                     r    
commm   LT&
|~~~~~~~~~~nX                                                                                  APPUIP.4E E 
BAMM13                                            1 N1AB
| |SU-E                |vnle AXÆDa| EA |UE
CaNmoemm   from~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ewo
AEFMCF£»£S ~ ~      TCU  |             | «IUIUT.
IFP.VCEVUE  koeu                                   tTI9
tTj
aià-   ~ Oum~
mrom            KO~~~~~ULAàMOUT.



- 28 -                               ANNEXE 3
RÉPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
GABONESE REPUBUC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
RËSEAU ROUTIER PAR CLASSE DE TRAFIC
ROAD NETWORK AND TRAFFIC VOLUMES
Véhiculeslour,1987 (Vehicles/day.1 987)
Désignation                                                       _                  ___
0-50    50-100  100.200 200-400 400-600 600-1000  1000 *    Total
ROUTES REVETUES (km)
<Paved roads)
* Voles express (VE)                                                           24       24
- Nationales (RN)      78                 72       93       110       24       99       476
- Provinciales (RP)    1 1                          1                                   12
* Départementales (RD)    36                                                   23       59
- Voles urbaines (VU)  117                                                              117
Sous-total            242        O        72       94       110       24       146      688
Répartition           35%       0%       10%      14%      16%       3%       21%      100%
ROUTES NON REVETUES (km)
(Unpaved roads)
* Nationales (RN)     1,434     682      641      365                                  3,122
- 'rovinclaies (RP)   230       692      153       14                                  1,089
- Départementales (RD)   2.045  28       147       28                                  2,248
- Voies urbaines (VU)  44                                                               44
Sous-total           3,753    1,402      941      407        0        0         0      6,503
Répartition           58%      22%       14%       6%       0'7.     0%        0%      100%
TOTAL                   3,995    1,402    1.013      501       110       24       146     7.191
RÉPARTITION              56%       19%      14%       7%       2%       0%        2%      100%



- 29 -
NtlPILIQUE OARONAISE                   ANNEXE 4.1
OABONESE REPU8LIC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL DENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LISTE DES ROUTES ET PONTS A ENTRETENU A L'ENTREPRISE
COUT ET PROGRAMM1E INDICATIF PAR ANNÉE
ROADS AND BRIDGES MADTENANCE WORKS BY CONTRACT
DESIIpnON            KM      COUT Mi!kms de F.CFA TC(OT1 TXS
lére mb   2kna _    3éme Imi.    TOTk
let vear    2nd vear    3rd vear
A Entretien amélioré routes en tener
(Iniproved maintenance earth roads)
- Bitoun-Lambaréné              71       138        498                     636
- Bitoun-Ndiolé                 56       194         173                    367
- Alembe-Ayem                   76       154         106                    259
- Lambréné- vers Oyenano        40       142        308                     450
- Mouia veoeFouganou            59       200         126                    326
- Mouila-Ndende                 79       155         117                    272
- Ndende-T*Qfeflga              89       144         219                    363
M Uevang-Lalara                 59       121         67                     188
- Lalora-Mitzlc                 6        131         110                    241
- MiIzic-Oyem                   111      148         669                    817
- Laiara-Koumameyong            65       167         106                    273
- Koumameyong-Ovan-Makokou      150      158        436                     594
- AypmCanlSadeuTP               95       228         110                    338
- Camp Seeur TP-MeIouyl         135      168        472                     640
- MekouyP-La Leyou              104      182        359                     541
- Koutamoutou-Pana              42        _         220                     220
Tota  1287   2.430       4.085
B Entretien ebs roules bitumées
(Mintenance ct paved roade)
- Libreville-Ntoum              39        18         18          1 0        46
- Ntoum-Nsilé                   65       25          25          12         62
- Nsilé-Oyan                    20       44          30          1 7        91
- Oyan-BUfoun                   42       171         61          3 5        267
- NoM-arm OCTRA                 12       198          9          5          212
- Ge OCTRA4rbm                  28        10         10          9          29
- Alembé-Mévng                  32       150         54          31         235
-Liaa a-Oa 8                              6           6          5          17
- Libreville-Cap Esterias       23       215         29          17         261
-La Leyou-Moanda                37        8          117         9          134
- Moanda-Mvengue                32        9          19          1 0        38
- Mvengue-Franceville           27        7          16          9          32
- Franceville-Kellé             27        30         201         1 7        248
- Kellé-Léconi                  72       182         116         66         364
Total 464     1.073       711    _    52        2.036
C Répartion des ouvrages cart
(ponts métaliques) (Bridge repaira)
- Mbey                           1                   14                     1 4
- Biblingunen                    1                   54                     54
- Avebe                          1                   10                     10
-LO                              1       41                                 41
-On"cu                           1                   72                     72
-Obidi                           1                   33                     33
-Kye                             1       66                                 65
-Ouabu                           1       28                                 28
-Dolle                                               54                     54
-Lyble                           1        10                                10
-Ni 1, Ni 2                      2                   16                     16
- Doulgny                        1                   13                     13
- Léblyou                        1                   73                     73
Total  1 4     144        339          0         483
TOTAL TRAVAUX A L'ENTREPRISE           3.647      5,145       252        9,044
(OTAL WORKS BY CONTRACT)
D Contrôb des travaux (5%)                182        257         13         452
(Cotrdr et works>
TOTAL  ER                              3829       5,402       265        9.496



- 30 -
RÉPUBLIQUE GABONAISE                                    ANNEXE 4-2
GABONESE REPUBLIC                                      Page 1 de 3
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TRAVAUX EN RÉGIE
WORKS BY FORCE ACCOUNT
Composition en personnel et matériel, nombre et rendement des équipes d'entretien
Composition end expected output ot maintenance units
reprofilage    remise  rechargement aménagement ensoleillement entretien
rapide    en forme     général    pistes et      mécanisé     manuel
Catégorie                         (dry      (grading    (rehabili-  rechargement (mechanized   (manuel
(Category)                       grading)   compacting)   tation)     partiel      sunlight)  maintenance)
(partial
regraveiilng)
MATERIEL
Niveleuse (motorgrader)                     2           2           2            1
Compacteur (compactor)                                  1            1           1
Chargeur (loader)                                                   2            1
Bulldozer (bulldozer)                                               2            1            2
Citerne à eau (water truck)                             1            1
Camion-benne (dump truck)                                           8            4
Citerne carburant (fuel truck)              0.3         0.3          1
Camion graissage (service truck)            0.3         0.3          1
Camion 5 t. (truck)                                                  1           1                         1
Camionnette (pick-up)                       1           1            1           1             1
Tronçonneuse (chain saw)                                            2            2                         2
PERSONNEL
Chef de chantier (foreman)                  1           1            1           1
Chef d'équipe (gang leader)                                         2                          1           1
Conduct. engins (operator)                  2           3           7            4             2
Chauffeur (driver)                          2           3           13           6            2            1
Mécan. entret. (chiet mechanic)             1           1           2            1
Aide-mécanicien (mechanic)                  1           1            1           1
Manoeuvre Éq. méc. (workmen)                2           3           10           3
Manoeuvre (laborer)                                                                                        8
Charpentier (carpenter)                                                                                    1
Maçon (brick layer)                                                                                        1
An (year) 1&2     5           4           4           10            4           37
Nombre d'équipes
(Number of units)
An (year) 3    8 (+3)      8 (+4)      4 (+0)      10 (+0)       4 (+0)      47 (+10)
Rendement moyen                         1.050 km/an  300 km/an   45 km/an    200 km/an    200 km/an   100 km/an
(Average oulput)                          (km/year)  (km/year)  (km/year)   (km/year)   (km/year)  (km/year)



RÉPUiBLQE G4A103UAE
OAiOESE REPU9UC
PROGRAME TRINAL DENTRETIEN ROtTiER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PRO.ECT
TRAVAUX EN RÉGiE
WORK6 DY FORCE ACCOUNT
iot wuwi de tonllnwmn du  éqw%
(Muile, de F CFA,198)
(Anhifl Cpgt,tfg coSi of uflhe)
(Tlesnde og CFA F. 10i)
Equ4m de oÇreUqo rapdb                 Equpe de r    en kIo.                  Equip de m_nf~t gn9            Eque dcmnt de puf et recfargsn»nt  tel
C00podc                    (dry Oa9n imIO                      (l8adeg r0oactIng unu)                     lfaiitmiotan mi8t)                     (P,ei waveano)
(Calegory)      Locas     Tae      osbu       Ta-i      Local     Tom      Dvs        Taa       Loi     Tus       Divw       Talai     Local     Taxies   O,r        Tol
(Forelon)                               (Forelani                               IFotelan)
Pcronnc1            14,140                        14.140    18.878                        18,878    54,060                       54.060    25.242                         25.242
Carburant et lubrifiant   1,759  1.759  5.280     8.798     2,025     2.625     7.878    13,128    13.693    13.693    41.080    88.468     6.944     6.944    20.832    34.720
PeuredeaIgO          301      3.38i     5.978     9.645      445      4.679     9.422    14.548    1,948    21.743    41.241    64.932       934      9.817    10.770    30,521
Ràparalon malul"    2.514                         2,514     3.709                         3.709    16.233                         16.233    7.781                          7,781
(main oeuvr)
mlatéiaux            355       622      2,575     3,552      503       835      3.651     4.989     2.137     3.739     15.490    21.368     988      1.639     7.168      9.795
ToallpoaéqJlp       19.069    5.747    14.241    39.057    25.980    9,139    20,949    55,048    88,071    39,175    97,811    225.057   41.889    18.400    47.770    109.059
Net dàq*o                                           5                                       4                                       4                                       1 0
Tcanlgo             95,345    28.735    71.205   195.285   103,840   32.556    63.796   220.192   352,284   158.700   391.244   900,228   418.890   184,000   477.700  1.080.590
Equ4i cBoliemtnuO mécani            Eqq9 mensten unnuel es dépandae            Tous 6quo. canlentis 1an                Toutes équOs rononaa 3 am
Calgorle              (Mechanized aunglga und)                 (Maul uamnance unit)                     i      ii   yub)                      (Thoear w icostal uunit*)
(cmtegoqV)      Local     TUa      Owis       Total     Local     TOM      DeIa       Total     Local    Toe       Oudla      Total     Local     Tax      D_s         Total
(Forelqnl                              IForeiqnl                               (ForelIn)                                (Foreioni   arrondi
Peronnel            8.051                         8.051    11,461                         11,481   1.070,333                    1.070.333 2.140.666                      2.141.000
Carburant et lubrIlbnt   1.817  1.817   5.453     9.087      396       396      1.188     1.980    165,427   185.427   496.8312   827.168   330.854   330.854   992.624  1,654.000
Piêoeaderodm         521      5.817    11,033    17,371      49        512      1.031     1.592    24.314   262.900   514.561   801.775   48.628   525.800  1.029.122  1,604.000
Réparaion matriel   4,343                         4,343      406                           406     202.542                       202.542   405.084                        405.000
(main drouvre)
Maérlaux             389       679      2.817     3.885      310       513      2.243     3.086    35.241    59.493   255.378   350.112   70,482    118.988   510.758   700.000
Tdarparéuipe        15,121    8.313    19.303    42.737    12,622    1.421      4.462    18,505   1.497.857  487.820  1.268,251 3.251.928 2,995.714  975.640  2.532,502 6.504.000
Notbro otéWoo                                       4                                      37
Totai général       80,484    33.252    77.212   170,948   467.014   52,577   165,094   684.685                                                                                        00 2
>
CD .
t.X 



RÉPUBUQUE GAB3ONAISE
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TRAVAUX EN RÉGIE
WORKS BY FORCE ACCOUNT
Coùt global de fonctionnement des équipes
(Milliers de F CFA,1988)
(Annual operatIng costs of units)
(Thousands of CFA F, 1988)
Récapitulation        Toutes équipes confondues année 3      Toutes équipes confondues années: 1 à 3
(three year costs-all units)             (three year costs-ail units)
Catégorie     Local (HT)   Taxes    Devises    Total   Local (HT)   Taxes     Devises    Total
Personnel          1,300,723                      1,300,723 3,441,389                       3,441,389
Carburant et lubrifiant  184,998   184,998   554,957   924,953   515,852   515,852  1,547,581  2,579,285
Piècesderechange    27,469    296,686   581,134   905,291    76,097    822,488  1,610,256 2,508,841
Réparation matériel    228,756                     228,756   633,840                         633,840
(main d'oeuvre)
Matériaux           41,337    69,797    299,849   410,983   111,819   188,783   810,605  1,111,207
Total général      1,783,283  551,483  1,435,940 3,770,706 4,778,997 1,527,123 3,968,442 10,274,562
tDI



RÉPUBLIQUE GABONAJS
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL DENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
EstimatIon du coùt de la remise en état du mtmérlel existant
Cost estimate for rehablltation of equlpment
A. Remise en éat en régle (Rohabllitation by force account)
Nomire (Nufber)            Catit de répamion estlm   F CFA MUC)
Catgcde          Marque                                         (_Cost ind taxes CFA
(Category)       (Mark)           Type
par type    par catégorie  par type      par marque     par catégorIe
Komatsu        GD 50 R          2                      6,500,000       6,500,000
Nlwleous                                                          3                                         7.100,000
Molorgrader
Caterpillar      120 B           1                       600,000         600,000
930            2                      6,000,000
Chargeurs           Caterpîllar                                   3                          7.000,000      7.000,000
Whe Loader
950            1                      1,000,000
CO_PUMr              Albaret          PF 3            3           3          1,000,000       1,000,000      1,000.000
Pneumalic compactor                                                                                                                              w
Komalsu         D 65 E          3                      14,500.000      14,500,000
Bull-dozers                                                       4       _                                 24,500,000
Caterpillar       D 8I                                  10,000.000      10.000,000
Isuzu          TXD 45          3                      5,500,000       5,500,000
Camons-benne                          JE 13           3           9          9,500,000                      22,500,000
Dump-truck           Renault                                                                17.000,000
GLR 190         3                       7,500,000
Porte-chars         Mercedes         2,624            1           1          5,000,000      5,000,000       5.000,000
Trailer                                                                                         _ __   _
TOTAL        67,100,000
t>4
PD 1



RIPUBLIQUE GABONiSE£
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PROORAMME TRENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
EstImatbn du coOt d la rmnise an éat du matl estant
Coosatmete for rfhabllitatbn of equipment
B- Remis. en état à lentreprise <Rehabilitation by contract)
Nate (<umber)            Cao de ripealon enilt F CFA (TrC)
Ca-gob                                                                       JCaie hMd. taxes CFA F.)
(Caîegory)      (Mark)          T>,e                                                                      e
pa rtyp    par raSgob    par type      pW marque     pEç rzaléog
GO 310         4                    36,000,000
Nhieuses           KcmaÈuS
&t4orgrader                                                                           58.000.000      58,000,000
GO 500         4                    22.000.000
930           1                     4.000,000
Chagae             Caterpillr       950           2           5         9,000,000      19,500.000     19.500,000
966           2                     6,500,000
C w_pacteurs        Alret           PF 3          6           6         4.900,000      4,900.000      4.900,000
Pneumna  c_a..ctr
Konmau         D 65 E         2                    26,000,000     26,000,000
Bulldozera                                                    3
36.000.000
Caterpillar      0 8           1                    10.000,000     10,000.000
TS 45         2                     9,000,000
buzu          TDJ 50         5                    34.000,000     58,000,000
Cadmbns-benne                       D3Z                       22        15,000,000
Dump-truck                                                               ,  .       .____
JE 13         6                     36,000,000                   149,500,000                        fD X
Renau     _                                                       91,000,000                                       NM m
GLR 190        6                     55,000,000                                                      X  1
1~~~~~~~                      W
Porte-chars        Mdoe"           2624           2           1         15,000,000    15,000.000      15,000,000
Traller         ___
70TAL.      282,900,000



- 35 -
RÉPUUOlIU GABONAISE                                ANNEXE 4-4
GABONESE REPUBUC                                  page 1 de 4
PROCRADE TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD RMNTENANCE PROIECT
Estimation dea coOts d'achat des matériels et équlpements
(Milllers de f CFA, prlx 1988)
Cost *stfmat# for roide equlpment
(Thouand CFA F price 1988)
Cool unitalre                             CoOl total
Matériel          Nombre                 (Unit cosl)                              (Total cast
(Equlpment)        (number)
local    taxes    devises    total      local    taxes      devies      total
___________________________           <toriegn)                                (forelan)
Niveleuse (motor grader)      7        928      13297    32175    46,400    6,496    93,079    225,225   324,800
Compacteur (compactor)        2        820      11749    28431    41,000    1,640    23,498        56,882    82,000
Citerne à eau (water tank)    12       540      7,737    18,723   27,000    6,480    92.844    224,676   324,000
(10 000 1)
Camion-benne (truck)          65       430      7,269    13,801   21,500   27,950   472,485   897,065   1.397,500
(5 T)
Camion-benne (truck)          20       490      7,021    16,9e9   24,500    9,800   140,420   339,780   490,000
(10 - 12 T)
Citerne carburant (fuel truck)  9      540      7,737    18,723   27,000    4,860    69,833    168,507   243,000
(8 - 10 000 1)
Camlon graissage (service truck    5   540      9,129    17,321   27,000    2,700    45,645    86,855    135,000
(10 - 12 T)
Camion atelier.(workshop truck)   4    600     10,143   19,257   30,000    2,400    40,572        77,028    120,000
Porte-engins (traller)        1       1,020    13,138   36,844   51,000    1,020    13,136        36,844    51,000
Tracteur polyvalent (adaptable  4      400      5,151    14,449   20,000    1,600    20,804    57,796    80,000
tractor)
Camionnette (pick-up)         59       112      1,605    3,883    5,600    6,608    94.695    229,097   330,400
(1.5 T)
Véhlculesdeliaison(4X4)       20       180      3,443    5,377    9,000    3,600    68,860    107,540   180,000
(4 wheel drive vehicbes)
Tronçonneuse (ciain eaw)     130        8        109       303       420      1,040    14,170     39,390    54,600
Lot pièces rechange           1                                               9,488   148,147   317,113   474,748
(matériel neuf) (spare parts)
Sous-total matériel                                                          85,682  1,337,788  2,863,578 4,287,048
Équipement atelers (woreshop equipment)                                      10,500   99,354    240,148   350,000
régionaux et subdivisions
Stock tampon (buffer stock)                                                  11,160   124,570   236,270   372,000
pièces de rechange (spare parts)
Véhicules de liaison (4 wheel Jrive veilides)                                 1,900    39,855    53,245    95,000
services centraux (10)
TOTAL GÉNÉRAL <MATÉRIEL ETÉOUIPEMENBTS)                                      109,242 1,601,567  3,393,239  5,104,048
GRAND TOTAL (EQUIPMENT)
NOTE: Matériel pour formation non Inclus    * Lots prévus pour nnancement par BAD (pièces de rechange incluses)
Training equlpment non indudad         Lots foreseen for flnancing by AFDB (indluding spare parts)



- 36 -
RÉPUBLIQUE GABONAISE                                    ANNEXE 4-4
OABONESE REPUBLIC                                     page 2 de 4
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL DENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TRAVAUX EN RÉGIE
WORKS BY FORCE ACCOUNT
État génfml du nmtérbIl existant et besoins du programme triennal
State oa exlstlng equlpment end noeds of project
Inventaire du matériel à  matériels retenus   besoins en matéril        matériel à
Désignallon        matérliel   reformer    pour le projet       cdu programme              acheter
1988     (scrapping  usable equlpment         triennal               (equipment
(Inventory oa equlpment)                  (nocessary equipment)          purchase)
material)
An 1 et 2    An 3      ranche ¶ ranche 2  Total
(yo)    (year)I_
Niveleuse             72          27            45            36          50         0       7        7
(molorgrader)
Bulldozer             37          a             29            26          26         ô       0        0
(bulidozer)
Chargeur              43          14            29            18          18         0       0        0
(loader)
Compacteur            21          0             20            18          22         0       2        2
(compaclor)
Camion-benne 5 t.     46          46            0             51          61        51       10      61
(dump truck)
Camion-benne 10 t.    87          35            52            72          72        20       0       20
(dump truck)
Camion entretien      6           2             4              7          9          3       2        5
(service truck)
Camion cmsrne         7           7             C              7          9          7       2        9
(carburant)
(tuel truck)
Camion citeme à ea    O           O             O              8          12         8       4       12
(waler truck)
Camionnette (1.5 T)   43          43            0             51          58        51       7       58
(pick up)
Véhicule de liaison   12          12            0             20          20        20       0       20
(inspection vehicle)
Tracteur polyvalent   0           0             0             4           4          4       0        4
Porte-char            7           1             6             7           7          1       0        1
(traller)
Camion atelier        0           0             0              4          4          4       0        4
Tronçonneuse          -           -              -            102        112        102      20      122
(chain saw)



- 37 -
RÉPUBLIQUE GABONAISE           ANNEXE 4-4
GABONESE REPUBLIC              page 3 de 4
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TRAVAUX EN RÉGIE
WORKS BY FORCE ACCOUNT
Coûta de fonctionnement annuel des matériels (sans amortissement)
(Milliers de F CFA,1988)
Annual operatîng cost of equlpment (wlthout amortlsatlon)
(Thousands of CFA F, 1988)
Main d'oeuvre    Piècss de   Carburant
Matériel          atelier       rechange         +          Total
(Equipment)       (Personnel)  (spare parts)    Lubrifiant
(fuel and
lubrifiants)
Niveleuse 130-150 cv       993          3,973         3,510        8,476
(motorgrader)
Compacteur 22 t            590          2,358         2,700        5.648
(compactor)
Chargeur 1.3 m             939          3,755         2,700        7,394
(loader)
Bulldozer D7              2,015         8,059         4,050        14,124
(bulldozer)
Citerne à eau 10-12 t      530          2,118         1,350        3,998
(water truck)
Camion-benne 10-12 t       583          2,332         4,320        7,235
(dump truck)
Citerne carburant 10-12 t  620          2,481         1,350        4,451
(fuel truck)
Camion graissage 10-12 t   482          1,928         1,350        3,760
(service truck)
Camion 5 t                 342          1,366         1.350        3.058
(truck)
Camionnette 1-5 t          36            143           405          584
(pick-up)
Tronçonneuse               19            77            252          348
(chain saw)          j



- 38 -
RÉPUBLIQUE GABONAISE                     ANNEXE 4-4
GABONESE REPUBLIC                       page 4 de 4
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TRAVAUX EN RÉGIE
WORKS BY FORCE ACCOUNT
Coûts annuel des personnels par équipes
(Millilers de F CFA, 1988)
Annual coste of personnel by units
(Thousands of CFA F, 1988)
reprofilage    remise   rechargement aménagement ensoleillement entretien
rapide     en forme    général     pistes et    mécanisé    manuel
Métier    (dry grading)  (grading   (rehabilita- rechargement (mechanized   (manual
(Job)                  compacting)    tion)      partiel     sunlight)  maintenance)
(partial
regravelling)
Chef de chantier  2,100       2,100       2,100       2,100          0           0
(foreman)
Chef d'équipe       O           O         2,400          O         1,200       1,200
(gang leacier)
Conduct. engins   3,360       5,040       11,760      6,720        3,360         O
(operator)
Chauffeur         2,976       4,464       19,344      8,928        2,976       1,488
(driver)
Mécan. entret.    1,560       1,560       3,120        1,560         0           0
(chief mechanic)
Aide-mécanicien   1,080       1,080       1,080        1,080         0           0
(mechanic)
Manoeuvre Éq. méc   2,160     3,240       10,800      3,240          O           O
(workmen)
Manceuvre           O           O           O            O           O        6,240
(laborer)
Charpentier         0           0           0            0           0         900
(carpenter)
Maçon               O           O           O            O           O         900
(brick layers)
TOTALANNUAL       13,236      17,484      50,604      23,628       7,536      10,728



- 39 -
RÉPUBLIQUE GABONAISE                       ANNEXE 4-5
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D`ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATION DES MOYENS DE FORMATION ET DU COUT
COST ESTIMATE FOR TRAINING
Coût en Milliers de F CFA Cost thousands CFA F)
DESCRIPTION                   Local       Taxes       Devises       Total
.__ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ _   (foreli n)
A. Fonctionnement de la Brigade de Formation
Production (Operating cost for training
production brigade)
- Personnel permanent                128,800      0            0          128,800
- Stagiaires                          51,800      0            0           51,800
- Carburants et
lubrifiants                       30,400       0          120,000     150,400
-Pièces de rechange                    91000      45,000     115.000      169,000
Sous-total fonctionnement              220,000       45,000     235,000      500,000
B. Achat du rnatériel de Formation-Production
(Equlpment purchase)
- Niveleuse (140-150 Cv) (2I           2,784      18,003       72,013      92,800
- Compacteurs vibrants (8-10 T) (2)    2,460      15,908      63,632       82,000
- Citerne à eau (8-10 000 I.) (1)        675       5,265       21,060      27,000
- Camion graissage (10-12 T) (1)         675       5,265      21,060       27,000
- Camion benne (10-12 T) (6)           3,675      28,665     114,660      147,000
- Camionnettes (15 T) (10)             1,120      10,976      43,904       56,000
- Pleces de rechange (15%)             1.364      20,050      46,786       68,200
Total matérdel                           12,753     104,132     383,115      500,000
a Équipement pour le Centre de perfection-
nement de Ubreville (Equipment for the
Centre de perfection de Ubreville)
- Équipement                             200       1,400        8,400      10,000
- Minibus (1)                            200       2,800        7,000      10,000
- Véhicules de liaison                   600       3,800      15,600       20,000
Sous-total équipement                     1,000       8,000      31,000       40,000
D. Stages et séminaires (training course and
seminary)
- Stages de perfectionnement:
* Chef service formation              0           0             8,000       8,000
* Formation de 2 moniteurs DOM        0           0            10,000      10,000
* Ingénieurs et techniciens           0           0           40,000       40,000
- Voyages d'études                    0           0           20,000       20,000
- Séminaire entretien routier         10,000      0            10,000      20,000
- Séminaire ouvrages dart             10,000      0            10,000      20,000
- Séminaire gestion                    3,000      0             3,000       6,000
- Perfectionnement des chefs de secteur  6,000    0            0            6,000
Sous-total séminaires                    29,000      0          101,000      130,000
Total Formation (Training)                 254,705     225,861     689,434    1,170,000



- 40 -                         ANNEX   4-6
Page 1 of 7
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
General Outline of the Three-year Training Program
Introduction
The training operations to be undertaken under the Three-year Road
Maintenance Program comprise:
1.   Retraining in a "Maintenance Training and Operations Unit" (Brigade
Formation-Production) of the personnel of the mechanized crews
formed under the program (34 crews).
2.   Basic Training of the personnel still to be hired to make up these
crews.
3.   Individual Training Courses:
--   advanced training for the Head of the Training and Human
Resources Department;
--   study trips;
--   training courses abroad for 18 Gabonese professionals; and
--   training for two trainers for light and heavy vehicle mainte-
nance and operation.
4.   Specific Training Seminars for the supervisory staff of the region-
al and local units.
Description of Training Measures
A.   Retraining of Maintenance Crew Personnel
The program provides for training of:
--    8 quick reshaping crews
--    8 restoration crews
--    4 general resurfacing crews
--   10 partial resurfacing crews
--    4 mechanized sunlight crews
The personnel trained through this progr i will number:
--    4 head foremen
--   30 crew foremen
--   12 mechanized crew foremen
-- 114 equipment operators
--   47 manual sector foremen
-- 185 drivers
--   34 maintenance mechanics
(a) Crew Foremen
Characteristics of Training
Selection:      from among road works head foremen (based on
personnel records and interviews)
Duration:       3 months
No. trained:   30
Location:       School for Public Works Technicians at Fougamou
(ETTPF)



- 41 -                         ANNEX   4-6
Page 2 of 7
Program
Theory:        personnel management                             12
administrative documents                        12
materials                                       24
road technique                                 38
Worksite organization, programming              16
structures                                     24
surveying                                      24
topography                                     24
Practical:      on-the-job training                           200
384 hrs.
Means Employed
Instructors:    1 civil engineer
1 head foreman
Infrastructure: 1 classroom
Equipment:       ETTPF equipment
(b)  Mechanized Crew Foremen
Characteristics of Trainin_
Selection:     from among the mechanized crew foremen and the local
equipment operation technicians (based on personnel
records and interviews)
Duration:       3 months
No. trained:   12
Location:       ETTPF
Program
Theory:         personnel management                            12
administrative documents                        12
materials                                       24
motors, transmissions, equipment                24
maintenance technology
road technique, advanced operation training  88
worksite organization, programming              12
surveying                                       12
Practical:     on-the-job training                            200
384 hrs.
Means Employed
Instructors:    1 civil engineer
1 head foreman
1 equipment operation instructor
Infrastructure: 1 classroom
Equipment:       ETTPF
(c) Eguipment Operators
Characteristics of Training
Selection:      from among the equipment operation technicians and
equipment operators of the regional and local units
Duration:       3 months
No. trained:   120
Location:       ETTPF



- 42 -                         ANNEX   4-6
Page 3 of 7
Program
motors                                                          12
transmissions                                                  12
equipment technology and maintenance                           24
advanced operation and maintenance technology                 136
on-the-job training                                           200
384 hrs.
Means Employed
Instructors:    1 equipment operation instructor
2 equipment operation trainers
Infrastructure: 1 classroom
Equipment:       ETTPF equipment
(d) Manual Sector Foremen
Training by seminars (see below)
(e) Drivers
Characteristics of Training
Selection:     from among regional and local unit drivers (already
in post, selection based on personnel records and
interviews); utilization of specially trained
drivers.
Duration:       3 months
No. trained:   185
Location:       ETTPF
Program
vehicle technology                                              12
maintenance to be done by operator                             44
advanced operation                                            104
road safety                                                    24
on-the-job training                                           200
384 hrs.
Means Employed
Instructors:    Mechanics, instructors and trainers (operation and
mechanical skills)
Infrastructure: 1 classroom
Equipment:       ETTPF equipment
(f) Maintenance Mechanics
Characteristics of Training
Selection:     from among the ARTPECAT mechanics (on basis of
personnel records and interviews)
Duration:       3 months
No. trained:   34
Location:       ETTPF



- 43 -                         ANNEX   4-6
Page 4 of 7
Program
Theory:         motors                                          24
transmissions                                  24
equipment technology                            24
materials used: oils, greases, solvents         24
compressed air
Practical:     washing, greasing, draining, refilling,          24
cleaning or replacement, filters
checking or repair of rims, wheels, tubes    24
checking, adjustment, replacement of           40
various parts
on-the-job training                           200
384 hrs.
Means Employed
Instructors:    ETTPF instructors and trainers in mechanics
Infrastructure: ETTPF shops
Equipment:       ETTPF equipment
B.  Basic Training of Personnel to be Hired
The personnel still to be hired comprise light and heavy vehicle drivers
and specialized labor such as carpenters and masons. These specialized
hands will be hired from among thE existing personnel and also directly.
Only the drivers will receive training.
Characteristies of Training
Recruitment level:  Primary Education Certificate (CEP)
Minimum age:         at least 18
Duration:            4 1/2 months (per group of 2 x 7)
No. trained:         lst year   2 x 14  -  28
2nd year   2 x 14  =  28
3rd year   2 x 24  =  28
Total                  84
Location:            ETTPF
Program
Technology of public works vehicles:   (2 weeks)
Maintenance to be done by operator:    (2 weeks)
Driving:                                (14 weeks)
Road safety (including Traffic Code): (2 weeks)
Means Employed
Instructors:    2 trainers
Infrastructure: 1 classroom
Vehicles:        2 ETTPF vehicles
Equipment:       ETTPF audiovisual equipment, charts, etc.



- 44 -                         ANNEX   4-6
Page 5 of 7
C.   Special Courses
(a)  Advanced Training for Head of Training and Human Resources
Department
--   Course for trainers (duration 4 months, abroad)
-- improvement of instructional skills
-- improvement of ability to organize and manage training
operations.
(b) Study Trips Abroad in Neighboring Countries for Staff Responsible
for Execution of the Program (DGTP and DGEP)
--   road conditions similar to those in Gabon
--   Duration:      7 weeks
--   No. trained:  2 trainers
--   Location:      specialized estabàishment
Program
-- industrial vehicle technology:               1.0 week
-- maintenance to be done by driver:           0.5 week
-- vehicle operation
-- all types of vehicles
-- special vehicles
-- tractor-trailers
-- oversized vehicles
-- tankers
-- road safety:                                0.5 week
-- teaching techniques:                        2.0 weeks
-- general principles
-- driver instruction
(c) Training course abroad for 18 senior Gabonese technical staff
members from the central and field departments in programming,
execution and management of road maintenance.
D.   Seminars
(a) Seminar on Road Maintenance
Characteristics
Target group:  Personnel of Technical & Road Maintenance Dept.
Personnel of Directorate of Rd. & Airfield Maint.
Regional Deputy Directors
Chiefs of local units
Head foremen of road works
The above personnel will be divided into two groups
of 20-25 persons each.
Duration:       15 days per group
Location:      Libreville Training Center



- 45 -                          ANNEX   4-6
Page 6 of 7
Program
--   organization of road maintenance
--   road maintenance needs
--   techniques used:
--   paved roads
--   unpaved roads
--   programming and budgeting
-- monitoring of execution of program
--   management of appropriations and goods
Means Employed
Speakers:        2 outside speakers
several speakers from the Ministry
Organizers:      Head of Training and Human Resources Department
Head of Training Center
Infrastructure: Training Center premises
Equipment:       audiovisual equipment of Training Center
(b) Seminar on Structures (40-50 trainees in two groups)
The characteristics and means employed will be the same as above,
but the topics will, of course, be different.
Topics of Seminar
--   technology of different types of structures
__   pathology
--   checking the condition of structures; methodology
--   faults, deterioration, etc., found
--   maintenance
--   repairs
(c) Seminar on Departmental Management Practices and Procedures
(40-50 trainees in two groups)
Characteristics
Target group:  Regional Deputy Directors
Chiefs of local units
Field department accounting staff
Duration:       1 seminar
Location:       Libreville Training Center
Program
Work programs: preparation
monitoring
Monitoring of execution (reports, visits, meetings)
Budget:         preparation
execution
Accounting:    general accounts
cost accounting
Documents to be provided to the different management echelons
Personnel management
Means Employed
Speakers:       MTPECAT and Technical Assistance senior staff
Organizers:    Head of Training and Human Resources Department
Chief of Training Center
Equipment:      Training Center Equipment



- 46 -                         ANNEX   4-6
Page 7 of 7
(d) Advanced Training for Manual Sector Foremen
Characteristies
Target group: 45 manual sector foremen (in groups of 15)
Duration:       1 week per group
Location:       ETTPF
Program
Definition of tasks to be performed
Methods:        equipment to be used
execution of works (methodology)
completion report
Means Employed
Instructors and speakers:      ETTPF instructors
speakers from Ministry
Facilities:                     ETTPF facilities
Equipment-                     ETTPF equipment
(e) Advanced Training for Directorate of Mechanical Eguipment
Mechanics in Equipment Electrical and Hydraulic Systems
(30 persons in three groups)
Programs
Electrical Systems of Public Works Eguipment
--   review of general principles of electrical systems
--   applications of electricity in vehicles
--   electronic ignition
-- work on test bench
Hydraulic Systems in Public Works Equipment
--   review of main functions of public works equipment and
theory of general breakdown repair
--   general hydraulics
--   applied hydraulics
--   direct application
AFIIN
November 14, 1988



- 47 -
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE                  ANNEXE 4-7
GABONESE REPUBUC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Programme et qualification         Affectation        Nombre          Durée
(Program and qualiication)         (Assignment)      (Number)   d'intervention
(ans)
_vears)
Chef de mission                     D.G.T.P.            1              3
(Mission chief)
A-  Programme dentretien routier
(Rehabilitation program
maintenance)
_flle (Force account)
- Ingénieur routier (road engineer)   D.E.R.A            1 *             2
- Ingénieur routier (road engineer)   D.E.R.A             1              2
* Spécialiste en organisation et      D.E.R.A             1              2
comptabilité analytique
(cost aozountant)
- Ingénieur routier, suivi des  Directions régionales     4              2
travaux (road engineer)       (Regional directorate)
Entreprise (Contracts)
- Ingénieur routier (road engineer)     D.I.              1              2
- Ingénieur routier (road engineer)    D.I.               1              2
B -  Gestion et exploitation
du matériel
(Management of equipment
operation)
- Ingénieur mécanicien (engineer)     D.O.M.              1              2
- Spécialiste gestion pièces de       D.O.M               1              2
rechange (spare parts specialist)
- Chef mécanicien (chief mechanic)  Ateliers Régionaux   2    ('7       1.5
(Regional workshops)
C-  Prouramme de formation
(Training program)
- Ingénieur routier (road engineer)  Brigade de           1              3
Formation Production
ETTPF (Training
production unit)
- Conducteur de travaux (foreman)                        1 *             2
- Chef mécanicien (chief mechanic)      w                 1              2
- Spécialiste en formation             D.P.              1 *             2
(training expert)
D    Améliorations institutionnelles
(Institutional improvements)
- Informaticien, économiste,         D.G.E.P.                            1
ressources humaines, etc.          D.G.T.P.
(missions ponctuelles)               D.P.      __
Total hommes-an (man-years)                              18           38
* Postes prévus pour experts FAC (4 postes)
Posts foreseen for experts by FAC (4 posts)



- 48 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 1 of 13
THE  GABONESE REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
1.        The three-year road maintenance program that the Government of Gabon
proposes to implement entails a marked increase in works compared with the present
level, together with a large number of reorganizational measures and steps to
increase the DGTP's execution and management capacity. For the objectives of the
program to be accomplished and in light of the DGTP's current lack of supervisory
staff, technical assistance to strengthen the Directoratets management structures
will be needed for the duration of the program.  The technical assistance team
that will cover all the components of the program will be provided by a special-
ized consulting firm and will also include some FAC specialists, most of whom have
been assigned to MTPECAT for several years.
2.        The technical assistance will cover essentially the three main compo-
nents of the program:
A. Road Maintenance Program
B. Equipment Management and Utilization
C. Personnel Training Program
Composition of the Team
3.        The composition of the team and the duration of the services to be
provided (in man-months, at 10 m-m per year) are set forth below:
Qualifications and                                 Duration
Number                  Position               Responsibility           (m-m)
Road Maintenance
1             Road engineer with          Lead team of experts          30
Director General of        and coordinate program
Public Works               activities
1             Road engineer with          Organization and pro-         20
Director of Road           gramming of maintenance
Maintenance                work
1             Specialist in cost          Establishment and             20
accounting                 monitoring of cost
accounting system



- 49 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 2 of 13
1             Road engineer with          Programming and budget-       20
Director of Road Main-    ing of work, periodic
tenance (DERA)             reports and balance
sheet
4             Road engineers with Re-   Programming, management         80
gional Roads Directors    and monitoring of main-
tenance crews
1             Road engineer with          Programming, management       20
Director of Transport      and monitoring of con-
Infrastructure (DIT)       tract maintenance work
1             Road engineer with          Preparation of invita-        20
Director of Transport      tions to tender and
Infrastructure (DIT)       contracts and monitor-
ing of execution of
work
Equipment
I             Mechanical engineer         Organization, program-        20
with Director of Mech-    ming and management of
anical Equipment (DOM)    equipment
2             Chief mechanic with         Organization and opera-  30 (15)
Regional Workshops         tion of the regional
workshops
1             Specialist in parts         Organization of parts         20
supply and management      supply and management
(DOM)
Training
1             Road engineer, Head of    Organization/operation          30
Maintenance Training       of the Maintenance
and Operations Unit,       Training and Operations
Fougamou Training          Unit (Brigade
School (ETTPF)             Formation-Production)
1             Head Foreman (ETTPF)        Execution of work and         20
training
1             Chief Mechanic (ETTPF)    Equipment maintenance &         20
repair and training
* Posts foreseen for experts of French Bilateral Assistance.



- 50 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 3 of 13
1             Specialist in human         Organization and moni-        20
resource training and      toring of training
management (Personnel      programs.  Studies of
Directorate)               huiman resources in
MTPECAT
Other experts (specific   Institutional improve-         10
missions)                  ments, data processing,
human rescurces and
economic studies, etc.
380 m-m
* Post foreseen for experts of French Bilateral Assistance.
A. Road Maintenance Program
Objectives
4.        The technical assistance furnished to the force-account and contract
road maintenance program is designed to:
(a) help MTPECAT to execute the program of road maintenance to be carried
out by force account and through contractors;
(b) Improve MTPECAT's organization effectiveness with respect to the pro-
gramming, monitoring and management of road maintenance; and
(c) provide in-service training for MTPECAT's personnel to equip them to
take over and manage the maintenance of the road system at the end of
the three-year program.
Job Descriptions and Qualifications
5.        All the experts must be fully fluent in French, with extensive work
experience in developing countries together with experience as trainers in their
specialties. They will be required to ensure the practical training of the
Gabonese officials they are assigned to work with and to devote at least 10% of
their time to classroom training activities, either through seminars or in the
context of the vocational retraining programs.
Adviser to Director General of Public Works and Mission Chief
6.        This expert vill be a highly qualified chief civil engineer vith between
15 and 18 years' experience in the road maintenance field. He will be required to
produce evidence of having spent at least eight years managing the maintenance of
paved and unpaved road systems, four of which must have been in a sub-Saharan
African country.
7.        He will have wide experience in administrative matters,  particularly
programming and supervision of execution of the works, personnel training, equip-
ment utilization and management and the management of appropriations.



- 51 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 4 of 13
8.        The functions to be performed will include the following tasks:
(a) advising the Director General of Public Works on all matters relating to
the execution of the three-year road maintenance program;
(b) coordinating the work of all parties involved in the setting up of the
program, in particular by participating in the following activities:
(i) preparation of invitations to tender, study of technical proposals
and proposal of courses of action to Government;
(ii) coordination of organization in field of supervision mission;
(iii) inclusion and training of Gabonese engineers in the supervision
work and, more generally, organization of the transfer of technolo-
gy and know-how;
(iv)  bookkeeping regarding the management and accounts of the program;
and
(v) monitoring of the progress of the maintenance work, and of obser-
vance of the schedule for work done by force account and by con-
tractors;
(c) preparing the monthly and quarterly reports on activities, including the
status of progress of the works, analysis of the problems encountered
and solutions proposed, and project costs up to that point, for the
regular information of the competent authorities and of the agencies
involved in the program;
(d) advising and assisting the DGTP concerning the management of road
equipment;
(e) directing the technical assistance team and supervising the monitoring
of the work of all the experts;
(f) planning of all the road program activities, including the components
financed by other financing agencies;
(g) monitoring and coordination of all actions included in the program,
including training; contract work, equipment management and road stud-
ies;
(h) supervision of the use of the funds, preparation of applications for
replenishment of the accounts and disbursements; and
(i) preparing a critical evaluation of the three-year program in a final
report submitted through his superiors to the Government, the World Bank
and the financing agencies. This report will detail the history of the
project, give precise details of the problems encountered and set out
the solutions adopted. It will also provide all pertinent data on the
costs, benefits and weaknesses of the program that will facilitate its
evaluation.



- 52 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 5 of 13
Road Engineer with the Director of Road and Airfield Maintenance
9.        This  expert will be a highly  qualified  civil  engineer with  15  to
18 years' professional experience in road maintenance and construction.  He will
be required to produce evidence of having spent at least five years in the organ-
ization and execution of road maintenance work in a sub-Saharan African country.
10.       He will also have wide experience of administrative matters, planning,
establishment of cost prices, organization and supervision of work sites and of
questions relating to public works equipment. His main tasks will be the follow-
ing:
(a) advising the Director of Road and Airfield Maintenance on all questions
pertaining to the organization and execution of maintenance work and
road rehabilitation;
(b) participating in the following operations:
(i) coordination of the work of the road engineers responsible for
monitoring maintenance work in the Regional Roads Directorates;
(ii)  setting up of an appropriate supply system to enable the field
services to carry out their maintenance program;
(iii) liaison with the Training School for Public Works Technicians at
Fougamou and the Libreville Training Center for all questions
relating to the training program and the selection of trainees;
(iv) the monitoring of the force-account maintenance work included in
the three-year maintenance program, collaboration with the Gabonese
engineers and their inclusion in the program; and
(c) ensuring liaison with the Directorate of Mechanical Equipment for all
matters relating to road maintenance equipment.
Road Engineer with the Director of Road and Airfield Maintenance
11.       This expert will be an experienced civil engineer with 12 to 14 years'
professional experience in road maintenance and construction. He will be required
to produce evidence of having spent at least five years managing road maintenance
in a sub-Saharan African country.
12.       He will have the following tasks:
(a) advising the Director of Road Maintenance on all matters relating to the
programming and budgeting of road maintenance;
(b) participating in the following operations:
(i) preparation of the annual road maintenance programs based on the
needs of the system and the three-year program;
(ii) preparation of annual maintenance budgets at the central level and
for the field executing units;



- 53 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 6 of 13
(iii) establishment of the equipment, fuels and lubricants and miscella-
neous materials requirements; and
(c) preparing monthly progress reports on the maintenance work and annual
balance sheets.
Cost Accounting Specialist
13.       This expert assigned to the Directorate of Road Maintenance will have a
good general training and a minimum of 10 years' experience in accounting, at
least three years of which must have been in the road sphere in an African coun-
try.
14.       He will be  responsible  for  the establishment  and application of a
simplified cost accounting system for the management of appropriations for mainte-
nance, personnel, equipment and materials and for calculating the cost of mainte-
nance work.
15,       He will also be required to train the personnel of the subdivisions
responsible for accounting and management.
Road Engineers with the Regional Roads Directors
16.       These four experts will be public works engineers with 10 to 12 years'
experience in road maintenance, at least three years of which must have been in a
sub-Saharan African country.
17.       They will be required to produce evidence of a solid ability to plan,
organize and supervise road maintenance work, and their tasks will be to:
(a) assist the Directors of the Regional Roads Directorates to program,
organize and execute the maintenance work that is under their direct
responsibility (reshaping and resurfacing);
(b) assist the Regional Directors in overseeing the performance and quality
of the work and the utilization of personnel, equipment and appropria-
tions by the roads subdivisions;
(c) coordinate and ensure liaison between departments concerned for all
matters relating to personnel training, supply of materials, equipment
utilization and repair and cost accounting;
(d) supervise the execution of maintenance work in the field by manual and
mechanized crews;
(e) prepare the monthly progress reports on works; and
(f) initiate and participate in all operations to transfer technical
know-how to the Gabonese personnel.
Road Engineer with the Director of Transport Infrastructure
18.       This expert will be a qualified civil engineer with 10 to 12 years'
professional experience, of which at least five years must have been in a supervi-
sory position in road maintenance or construction projects in excess of US$50 M.



- 54 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 7 of 13
19.       He will be required to produce evidence of solid experience in the
preparation of invitations to tender, contract management and works supervision.
20.       He will have worked for at least five years in an African country in
contract administration and works supervision.
21.       He will have the following main tasks:
(a)  advising  the Director  of Transport  Infrastructure  on all questions
relating to the program on contract road maintenance and rehabilitation;
and
(b)  participating in the following operations:
(i) preparation of invitations to tender and award of construction or
supervision contracts;
(ii)  coordination of the execution of contract work when more than one
contractor is involved;
(iii) supervision of the organization and activity of works supervision
missions;
(iv)  monitoring of the progress of construction works and observance of
the schedule for contract work;
(v) preparation of the progress reports and analysis of the problems
encountered and of the solutions adopted together with the cost of
the work; and
(vi)  in-service training of Gabonese counterparts.
Road Engineer with the Director of Transport Infrastructure
22.       This expert will be a civil engineer with 10 to 12 years' experience in
the roads field, at least three years of which must have been in the management or
supervision of contract road works.
23.       He will be required to produce evidence of at least three years' experi-
ence in an African country and will have the following main tasks:
(a) assisting the adviser to the Director of Infrastructure in all matters
relating to the execution of the three-year contract maintenance pro-
gram; and
(b)  field supervision of supervision missions and of execution of work.
B. Equipment Management and Utilizatior
Objectives
(a) to assist the Directorate of Mechanical Equipment to implement the
specific actions included in the three-year program for the equipment
sector (procurement of equipment and parts, major repairs and personnel
training);



- 55 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 8 of 13
(b)  to  improve  the  organization  and  performance  of  the Directorate  of
Mechanical  Equipment  in  equipment  and  parts  management,  equipment
utilization, current maintenance, breakdown repair in the field and
supplies; and
(c)  provide in-service training for Directorate personnel to equip them to
take over and perform the equipment management function normally at the
end of the three-year program.
Job Descriptions and Qualifications
Mechanical Engineer with the Director of Mechanical Equipment
24.       This expert will be a highly qualified mechanical engineer with 15 to
18 years' professional experience, with five years as a manager of an equipment
pool consisting of more than 200 units.
25.       He will have wide experience of administrative matters, particularly as
regards equipment operation and repair, personnel training and parts supply and
management. He will have the following main tasks:
(a)  helping the Director of Mechanical Equipment to accomplish the objec-
tives set in the three-year program with respect to road equipment;
detailed identification of the functioning of the Directorate of Mechan-
ical Equipment as regards:
(i)  quantitative and qualitative equipment inventory;
(ii) labor costs for each workshop and department;
(iii) inventory and quality trend of existing technical resources;
(iv) inventory and quality trend of personnel in post; and
(v)  development of the operation of the parts supply and management
system;
(b)  organization and start-up of the four regional workshops included in the
program;
(c)  drawing up of an equipment repair and scrapping program; this program
will take into account the age of the equipment, the cost and time
required for major repairs, probable operating cost after major repairs,
parts stocks available in store and/or possibility of obtaining such
parts;
(d)  determination of any changes to be made in the equipment maintenance and
repair system, foeusing essentially on:
(i)  organization of the Lunctioning of the central and field workshops
and working methods;
(ii) frequency and type of the different maintenance operations to be
carried out;



- 56 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 9 of 13
(iii) the levels of responsibility and limits of authority of the differ-
ent parties involved;
(iv) possible specialization of certain newly established regional
workshops; and
(v) determination of the operations and of the types of equipment and
operations that might be subcontracted to the private sector;
(e) coordinating all actions included in the program concerning procurement
of equipment and parts and of shop equipment and their distribution to
the operating units;
(f) coordinating the work of the other experts assigned to the Directorate
of Mechanical Equipment and their participation in the actions concern-
ing road maintenance equipment; and
(g) drawing up of an equipment repair program, a parts supply and stocks
management system, a training program and an equipment control system.
Chief Mechanics with Regional Workshops (DOM)
26.       These two experts will be qualified foremen with 10 to 12 years' experi-
ence, including three years in Africa in the operation and repair of civil engi-
neering equipment.
27.       They will possess good planning, organization and execution skills for
periodic maintenance, breakdown repairs on site and in-shop equipment repairs.
Their main tasks will be:
(a) ensuring the management of the regional equipment shop;
(b) supervising in the field the operation and current maintenance of the
equipment and performing breakdown repairs; and
(c) ensuring the direct training of the shop mecha ics.
Parts Supply and Management Specialist (DOM)
28.       This expert will be a senior technician with 10 to 12 years' experience
in the field of parts supply and management for civil engineering equipment.  He
will have a good knowledge of computerized stocks management and supply contracts
management.
29.       His main tasks will be to:
(a) improve the supply procedures by establishing a programmed supply
(order) system utilizing the computer support resources; and
(b) participate in the following operations:
(i) improvement of the functioning of the supply department, the
drafting of documents and the application of the system;



- 57 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 10 of 13
(ii)  establishment of the method of classifying supplies and implementa-
tion of this classification;
(iii)  drawing up the qualitative and quantitative inventory with values
of the stocks held and keeping the permanent inventory;
(iv)  reorganizatior  of  the  store's  file  system  and  supervising  its
correct updating;
(v)  study with  the Directorate  of Mechanical Equipment  departments
concerned of the supplies to be stocked and of the quantities
required;
(vi)  establishment  of  the  "minimum and maximum"  stocks  taking  into
account consumption and resupply times;
(vii)  distributing supplies to the workshops and preparing shipments to
the annexed stores;
(viii)  preparation of orders for supplies not in stock on the basis of
requests received;
(ix)  supervising the execution of supply contracts and participating in
their preparation; and
(x)  participating actively in the computerization of stocks management.
C.  Personnel Training Program
Objectives
30.       The three-year road maintenance program includes creation of 34 mechan-
ized road maintenance crews. The qualified personnel forming these crews will be
retrained through a Maintenance Training and Operations Unit that will be set up
within the framework of the School for Public Works Technicians at Fougamou
(ETTPF).  The technical assistance will be essentially for:
(a)  examination of the present situation with respect to road maintenance
personnel management in MTPECAT and the formulation of recommendations
with a view to improvement of the personnel policy;
(b)  designing the program of basic training, retraining and advanced train-
ing for the personnel needed for execution of the three-year program;
(c)  execution  of  this  program  and  ensuring  the on-the-job  training  of
Gabonese counterparts and instructors; and
(d)  the start-up of a Maintenance Training and Operations Unit for the
retraining of the qualified personnel forming the mechanized maintenance
crews.



- 58 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 11 of 13
Specialist in Human Resource Training and Management with the Director
of Personnel
31.       This expert will be a university-level technical professional with solid
road-sector experience.   He will have at least  12 to 15 years'  experience in
vocational guidance, retraining, basic training and advanced training methods,
management and, more particularly, organization and methods.  He will also have
good experience in human resource management, remuneration systems, career devel-
opment, promotion policies and personnel evaluation.
32.       He will be required to provide evidence of at least five years' experi-
ence in an African country in the training field, and he will have the following
main tasks:
(a)  advise  government  authorities  regarding  training and human  resource
management;
(b) organize and carry out, in conjunction with the Libreville Training
Center and the ETTPF, the three-year training program set up;
(c) seek out and institute application of the best methods of training and
providing instruction with a view to increasing the efficacy of and
return obtained from training;
(d) establish the inventory of MTPECAT road maintenance personnel and
determine the personnel requirements of the three-year program;
(e) determine the skills and knowledge needed by the maintenance personnel
at all echelons and establish the medium- and long-term training needs;
and
(f) examine the MTPECAT personnel policies with respect to hiring, career
development, promotion, staff retention, remuneration and incentives and
make recommendations with a view to improving this policy.
Road Engineer, Chief of the Maintenance Traini g and Operations Unit
at Fougamou (ETTPF)
33.       This expert will be a civil engineer with 10 to 12 years' professional
exparience and with good training and practical experience in the road construc-
tion and maintenance field.
34.       He will have good experience in the training field and will be required
to produce evidence of a definite aptitude for planning, organizing and supervis-
ing road maintenance work. He will also be fully abreast of technical matters and
will have at least five years' experience in a sub-Saharan African country.  He
will be responsible for:
(a) advising the Director of the ETTPF on all questions relating to person-
nel training;
(b) planning, organizing and carrying out the on-the-job training programs
for the DGTP personnel assigned to the Maintenar.ce Training and Opera-
tions Unit;



- 59 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 12 of 13
(c)  ensur-.ng, in collaboration with the ETTPF and DGTP, that an appropriate
supply system is set up so that the Maintenance Training and Operations
Unit will have adequate stocks of parts, materials, fuels, lubricants,
etc.;
(d) ensuring that proper use is made of all the training equipment and other
resources made available to the Maintenance Training and Operations
Unit; and
(e) training a Gabonese counterpart and supervising the training of counter-
parts for the head foremen and chief mechanic.
Head Foreman (ETTPF)
35.       This expert will be a qualified  head  foreman with 12 to 15 years'
professional experience in the execution of road works, of which a minimum of five
years must have been in a sub-Saharan African country.
36.       He will be required to produce evidence of an aptitude for organizing
and planning works and training the personnel who are to carry them out.  In
addition, he will have a solid knowledge of road technique and of equipment
operation.
37.       He will be responsible for:
(a) executing the practical training program of the Maintenance Training and
Operations Unit;
(b) providing the on-the-job training of the trainees making up the Mainte-
nance Training and Operations Unit; and
(c) the in-service training of a Gabonese counterpart to take over from him.
Chief Mechanic
38.       This expert will be an experienced senior technician or an experienced
head foreman with 12 to 15 years' experience in road equipment (motors). He will
have solid experience with the different makes and parts used.  He will be re-
quired to produce evidence of at least five years' experience as head of a public
works equipment repair shop and be capable of training and retraining mechanics.
He will have good organizational abilities and good administrative experience. He
must have worked for at least three years in sub-Saharan Africa.



- 60 -                       ANNEX  4-8
Page 13 of 13
39.       He will have the following tasks:
(a) advising and assisting the Director of the ETTPF concerning the organ-
ization and equipping of the Training School shop;
(b)  collaborating in the starting up of the training program for trainee
equipment maintenance mechanics;
(c) participating in the training of trainees; and
(d) ensuring that all the road equipment of the Maintenance Training and
Operations Unit is properly maintained and used.
AFlIN
February 24, 1989



RÉPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LISTE D'EQUIPEMENT POUR L'INFORMATISATION
DES SERVICES ET L'ESTIMATION DU COUT
(LIST OF COMPUTER EQUIPMENT)
Coût en Milliers de F.CFA (Cost thousand CFA F)
DESCRIPTION                       Local       Taxes       Devises       Total
(Foreign _
A Direction de l'outillaue mécanique
1 Unité centrale type PSI2-8560,
3 consoles, disque dur 70 Mégaoctets,
systèmes Prologue + DOS                     0       1,550       4,650         6,200
1 logiciel gestion de stocks                  0         500       1,500         2,000
3 imprimantes                                 0         675       2,025         2,700
1 onduleur                                    0         425       1,275         1,700
1 lecteur disquettes 5"114                    0          75         225          300
1 lot de petites fournitures diverses         0          50         150          200
Sous-total                                       O       3,275       9,825        13,100
B. Service technique de l'entretien routier
1 micro-ordinateur type PS/2-8560
disque dur 40 Mégaoctets                   0          825       2,475        3,300
1 imprimante                                  0         225         675          900
1 table traçante                              0         200         600          800
1 bureau, chaise, classeur                    0         100         300          400
1 lecteur disquettes 5"1/4                    0          75         225          300
3 logiciels (texte, base de données,          0         250         750         1,000
graphisme)
1 lot de petites fournitures diverses         0          50         150          200
Sous-total                                       O        1,725      5,175         6,900
Total équipement informatique                       0        5,000      15,000       20,000



- 62 -
RÉPUBUOUE GABONAISE                                   ANNEXE 4-10
GABONESE REPUBUC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL DYENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PROGRAMME D'ÉTUDES ROUTIERES ET COUT
(ROAD STUDY PROGRAM)
OBJET                       THEMES (SUBJECT)              F.CFA (CFA F)
Études économiques             Plan directeur routier                 100,000,000
(Economic studies)
Banque de données                                                     150,000,000
(Data bank)
Études techniques spécifiques  Route Kellé-Leconi                      70,000,000
(Technical studies)
APD divers                              45,000,000
Recherche routlère
(Road research)
Connaisance du trafic          Volume de circulabon                    30,000,000
(Traffic study)
Aggressivité des poids lourds           14,000,000
Connaisance du réseau          Campagne déflexions et routes bitumées  30,000,000
(Network study)
Campagne d'uni sur réseau bitumé         5,000,000
Suivi des sections témoins              31,000,000
Étude spédfique de renforcement        50,000,000
Campagne d'uni sur routes nabonales et
provinciales, réseau non revêtu         45,000,000
Ausculation des ouvrages d'art          20,000,000
Connaisance des matériaux      Évaluation potentielle ressources tradi-
(Material study)               bonnelles au voisinage des itinéraires à
recharger                               50,000,000
Étude spécifique de matériaux nouveaux  40,000,000
Achat d'équipement et appareils
spécifiques et des moyens de
transport et matériel informatique                                     70,000,000
(Equipment purchase)
TOTALGÉNÉRAL                                                          750,000,000



RÉPUBIUOUE GABONAISE
GADONESE REPUBLIC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MANENANCE PROJECT
ESTMTI   DU COUT DU PROJET EN CAP3TAL (1018)
CAPITAL COSY ES11iMATE (1088)
'(1 dolar U.S = 309 FCFA)
%tlions de F CFA (CFA F                 Uilttdedoiandt    U  5 housand CFA R              Pourcen         (%
CATE3A l(CATEGBORY)                     Local      Taxes      Davisoa      Total       Local       Taxes      Devsea       Total      Local      Taxos       Devissa
(Forelqn)                                      (Forelgn)                                      (Foreign)
A. Travaux drontroetin à rontrepriso
(kbbntonarnco woriu3 by contract)
Entrotbon amélioré dos routes on terra       1,631         979       3,915       6.525      5,278       3,168      12.670      21.117     25%        15%         60%
Entrotion des roulos binumées                  509         305       1,222       2,036       1,847        987       S.955       6,89      25%        15%          50%
Péparation des ouvragos d'an                   121          72        290         483         392         233         939       1,562     25%        15%         60%
Contirlo d^s travaux                            45          45         362        452         148         146        1,172    1,463       10%        10%          80%
Sous-total travaux d'ontrota3n à Pontroprise    2,306        1,401      5.789       9,498       7,483       4.534      18.735     30.731     24%         15%         61%
El Travaux rontotlien amôlloré on régbo
(Ialntonanco marks by forco account)
a) Rorlorcromnt dos capacltéa d'ontrolen
Romisao en état du matérlol                  49          98        203         350         159         317         657       1,133     14'        28%         59%
Matrioal Oqulpoa d'ontretion                 86       1.329       2.872      4,287         278       4,301       9,294      13,874     2%         31%         67%
Équipemort d'atlelera                        il          98        242         350          38         317         783       1,133      %         28%         69%
Stock tampon pièces do rochwang              il         126        234         372          36         408         757       1,204      3%        34%         82%
Anrénagotmont do trois aloliers réglonau    57          66        177         300         184         214         573         971     19%        22%         59%
Se.ô-total ranlorcontor dos cap. dcrotrreiln   2t4       1,717       3,728       5,659        693       5,557      12.065      18,314      3%        30%         66%
b) Fonctionnamont dos équipas
Parsonnel                                 3,442           O          O       3,442      11,139           O           O      11,139    100%        0%           0w
Carburant ct lubrillant                     516         516       1,547      2.579       1,670       1,670       5,006       8,348    2W%         20%         60%
Picma de rchango                            75          28       1.606      2.509         243       2.680       5,197       8.120     4%         33%         64%
Réparation matérlel (sans amortnsameo       634           O          0         634       2,052           O           0       2,052    100%        0?           0#
Matériaux                                   11         189        811        1,111        359         812       2.825       3.595     11%        17%         73%
Sous-total fonctionnmeont dos équipes        4,778       1,533       3,964      10.275     15.463       4,961      12.828      33,252     46%        15%         3g%
C, Formation (Training)
a) Bregado de lormation-production
Fonctionnement                              215          85        200         500         696         275         647       1.618     4t         17%         40%
MatOrlol do tornathon                        10         145        245         500          32         469       1,117       1,618     2%         zI%         09%
b) Contra de pertoctonnmomnt de Librovilie
Sémi'naire. et ouvrages                      29           0         11         130          94           û         327         421     22%         0%         78%
Équipemont                                    1          14         25          40           3          45          81         129     3%         25% 63%
Sous-total tormation                              255         244         671       1,170        825         790        2,172       3,786    22%         21%         57%
I1 Rontorcemont dos structuros do gstion
(Inslltutlonal saranglthening)
Assistance technique                           100         303       1,275       1.878        323         98:        4,128      5,430      0         18%          76%
Intormatlatlion des services                     O           5          15         20           0          16          49          65     0%         25%         76%
Véhlculos do  aison                              2          40          53         96           6         129         172         307      2%        42%          5%
Sous-total rontorcemenl dos structuras            102         348       1,343       1,793        229        1,126       4,347       5,822     0%         10%         75%
die gastian
E  Programma Cdétudes (Study progrsm)                  8          83        6BO          750        220         269        1,942       2,427    9g          11%         80%
CoOl de bue du progamma                             7,723      5,326      1B.095      29,144     24,994       17.236     52,087      94,317    2a%          18%         56%               Z
Imprévus quantitées (5%) (Physical contlngenclas)    386         26B         805       1,457       1,249        861        2,605       4,715     28%        18%         56%
Imprévus prix (10%) (Prico continganclas)            827         607       1.966       3,399       2.676       1,966       6,363      11,001     24%        t8%         58%
CoOt total du progamme triennal                     8.936       6,199     18,866      34,000      28.919      20,063      61.055     110,033     28%        18%         55%9
(Total program cost)



RÉPUBLIQUE GBONAISE
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL DENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECr
RÉSUMÉ DES COUTS DU PROGRAMME eT FINANCEMENT
(PROGRAN COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING)
<1 dollar U.S. = 309 F CFA)
_________       AMifions de F CFA                    |         Milliers de dollrs U.S. (Thousand dollars U.S.)
CoGt du projet         Financeen t (Financino)        Co0t du projet         Financemn t (FWnncinp)
C TIÊGOftfE                   (Project cost)  extérieur (toreign)        local       (ProjeCt cou' G0térieur (foreign      _  local
T.T.C.          Total          Total  dont Taxes      T.T.C.          Total         Total  dont Taxes
A- Travaux dentretien à rentreprise      9,496           5.786          3.708      1,402       30,731          18.731        12.000     4.5S37
(Maintenance works by contract)
B- RIse en état du mratériel             350              203            147        98         1.133            657           476        317
(Equipment rehsbilitation,
C- Achat de matérel                      5.104           3,401          1,703     1.593        16.518          11.006        5,511      5,155
(Equi,pment purchase)
D- Aménagement atelieru reglonaux        300              177            123        66          971             573           398        214
(Workahop constructir-%
E- Fonctionnement régie                 10,275           3,964          6,311     1.533       33,252           12,828        20.424     4,961
(Operating coStB)                                                                                                                                                 CN
F- Formation du personnel
(Training)
- achat de matériel                   540             225            3tS        99          1,748           726           1.019      320
(equipment purchase)
- fonctionnement                      630              446           184        145        2.039            1,443          595       469
(operabng cobt)                      ___
sous total  formation             1,170            672            499       244         3,786            2.175         1,615      790
G- Assistance technique                  1,678           1.275          403        303         5.430           4,126         1,304       981
(Technkcal assistance)
H- Informatisation                        20               15             5         5           65               49            16        16
1 - Etuder                               750              600           150        83         2,427            1.942         485        269
(Studies>                                     I
Coùt de base total                  29,144           16.095         13.049    5.326        94.317          52.087        42.230    17,236
(Base colt)
Augmentation des quantités (+5%)     1.457            805            652       266         4,715           2,605          2.110      861
(Physical contingencies)
Augmentation des prix (+10%)         3.399            1,966         1.434      607         11.001          6.363          4.642     1,966
(Price contingencies)            __                               
CoQ? total du programme             34,000           18.866         15.134    6,199       110.003          61,055        48.977    20.063
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ _   _ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___



RÉPUBUQUE GABONAISE
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Calbndrhr d'Exécution
Prolct Impiebmntation Schedule
Elm&nnt du Projt             Activité         R,xpomcbulit*                                                          Améê  (vYrws
1 988                    1989                     1990                      1991                      1992
Approbaton du coanr
Entre0 en vuur du prêt
Trvaux  ,rentrte       Prparaton du documnt A  État
à r.nhrpils,           Exwnun dm daoawTa          _R
_Ikneanem              Appe d O offre            Éta=
by contrecl            O r   drn plis            État
Attibution d.s ffurrms    État l BAD
Trvux                     Entreprih_
Ali*qp m               Prépadiegon des dacumu  Ac État
tlirs   omx            Exnrun du dcuaun         BSm
(Construction 0i l.o   Appe <offre               État
regione moAshopa)      Ouvertures des plis       État
Attribution des maruché   État BIRD
Treux                     Entreprise
Aclut de nrdl          Prépaurtion dl. documenta   État
tipitw de              Exandsdocumum             BUE>
'~u                    Appd d'offtes             Étt_
(EquG mr  purddue)   Ouverture des plie          État
Attribution des marchée   ÉtaUBIRDBAD
Livraison du matériel     Fournisseur
Rena. en dmt           Prépemion des documn  As  État
du mlrie à             Enmen des documn          État
rentrepris             Attribution ds onvntions  État
(Equlpwmnt rehabilittior Exécution               Entreprise
b, contraci)
Trvaux drentretien     Fornation du persomel     État
routier on régie       Exécution des tavaux      État
(aia c Warks by
Jbrce accunt>
Assktisnce             Préparation du document AO  État
twcmq»                 Liste restreintu          État 1 BRD
(Tecrnic  assistance)   Appel dcoffres           État
Ouverture ds plis         État
Attribution des rmarché   État I amRD
Exécution                 Consultant
Informatiaton du       Comutation des fouriassurs Etat
seias STER et DOm      Livraison des natériels   Fournissur
ÉSd                    Exécuton                  État                                                          _                                                                                    Z
(Studios)                                                                  .                                                                                                                        X
t!



- 66 -
ANNEX 4-14
Page 1 of 2
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Three-year Road Maintenance Program
Action Plan
1.        The purpose of this Plan of Action is to identify and program al!
measures required to make the management, financing, and planning of road
maintenance in Gabon increasingly effective.
2.        With a view to eliminating the difficulties currently associated
with road maintenance on force account and making certain that the goals of
the proposed road Program can be met, the Government will set about strength-
ening the Ministry of Public Works institutionally, functionally, and opera-
tionally along the following lines.
a.        Institutional Measures.
(a) Not later than October 1, 1989, the Borrower shall:
(i)  through MTPECAT, appoint a qualified and experienced coordina-
tor responsible for liaison with the Bank and other external
donors as to the road maintenance program to be carried out
under Parts A and B of the Project (the Program); and
(ii) establish an interministerial committee, including in particu-
lar representatives of the Borrower's ministries responsible
for public works, finance, and planning and economy, in charge
of coordinating the execution of the Program with the other
sectors of the economy.
(b) Not later than January 1, 1990, the Borrower shall:
(i)  take all necessary measures to place regravelling and regrading
units under the direct command of the regional Sub-directorates
of DERA;
(ii) establish, within DERA, additional units to be responsible for
planning and monitoring the execution of the Program, including
the maintenance of road structures;
(iii) introduce incentives (such as production bonuses, travel
allowances and overtime salary) for executive and supervisory
personnel and supervisors of mechanized maintenance teams;
(iv) provide in its national annual budget separate allocations by
line items for road maintenance, so that operating budgets
relating to maintenance on force account and capital budgets
relating to maintenance on a contractual basis are clearly
earmarked; and



- 67 -
ANNEX 4-14
Page 2 of 2
(v) establish budget and appropriation regulations in MTPECAT to
lmprove management efficiency and accelerate supply arrange-
ments for the units responsible for Project execution.
4.        Functional Measures.
(a)  Not later than October 1, 1989, the Borrower shall:
(i)  recruit and assign executive and supervisory staff, qualified
and experienced, in adequate numbers, to the training program
to be carried out under Part C of the Project, and
(ii) assign newly recruited Gabonese technical personnel as counter-
parts to expatriate technical assistance specialists, for
purposes of training and possible future takeover of responsi-
bilities.
(b) Not later than January 1, 19AO, the Borrower shall:
(i) assess the needs in Gabonese professionals, holding engineering
degrees or with advanced technical qualifications, required to
strengthen MTPECAT's central and regional services and take
over responsibilities under the Program;
(ii)  introduce a computerized system for:  (A) the annual program-
ming and budgeting of road maintenance works in accordance with
output standards acceptable to the Bank; (B) the management of
finances, personnel, materials and aquipment; and (C) the cost
accounting and cost pricing of maintenance works; and
(iii) introduce procedures for the regular monitoring and follow-up
of Project execution, on the basis of field visits and periodic
progress reports.
5.        Operational Measures.
(a)  Not later than October 1, 1989, the Borrower shall:
(î) assign mechanized and manual maintenance teams, in accordance
with output standards acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) each year, arrange for the checking and thorough overhaul of
all items of maintenance equipment over a period of at least
two months.
(b) During the period of execution of the Project, except in case of
exceptional circumstances, the Borrower shall ensure that all
personnel involved in the Project with supervisory or technical
responsibilities remain in their functions and in the same location.
AFlIN
January 12, 1989



- 68 -
ANNEX 4-15
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Diabursement Schedule
Cumulative            Cumulative
Date of End of          Diebursements         Diabursements          Diabursements
Quarter               (USS'OOO)             (USS'OOO)              (Profile)
---- FY89 --
30  Sept. 1988               0.0                   0.0                     0%
31  Dec.  1988               0.0                   0.0                     0%
31  Mar.  1989               0.0                   0.0                     0%
30  June  1989               2.0                    2.0                    7%
---- nso0 ----
30  Sept. 1989               1.5                    3.5                   12%
31 Dec.  1989                2.0                   5.5                    18%
31  Mar.  1990               2.0                   7.5                    25%
30  June  1990               1.5                   9.0                    30%
---- FY91 ----
30  Sept. 1990               2.0                  11.0                    37%
31 Dec.  1990                2.0                  13.0                    43%
31 Mar.  1991                1.5                  14.5                    48%
30  June  1991               2.0                  16.5                    55%
---- ns92 ----
30  Sept. 1991               2.0                  18.5                    62%
31 Dec.  1991                2.0                  20.5                    68%
31  Mar.  1992               1.5                  22.0                    73%
30  June  1992               1.5                  23.5                    78%
---- ns93 ----
30  Sept. 1992               1.5                  25.0                    83%
31 Dec.  1992                1.5                  26.5                    88%
31  Mar.  1993               1.0                  27.5                    92%
30  June  1993               1.0                  28.5                    95%
---- FY94 - ---
30  Sept. 1993               1.0                  29.5                    98%
31  Dec.  1993               0.5                  30.0                   100%
AFlIN
January 12, 1989



- 69 -
ANNEX 5-1
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
PROGRAME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER (ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT)
Evaluation Economlque des Routes et Ponts a Entretenir à l'Entreprise
(Economic Evaluation of Roads and Bridges Maintenance Vorks by Contract)
coût
Millions de P.CFA
HT
Trafic              Cost           Total
Description                        KQ     (Traffie)       Excluding Taxes  TRI (ERR)
(a) Entretien amélioré routes en terre
(Improved maintenance earth roads)
-- Bifoun-Lambaréné                          71          334                596            293
-- Bifoun-Ndjolé                             56          308                344            285
-- Alembe-Ayem                               76           89                243            233
-- Lambaréné-Oyenano                         40          209                422            100
Mouila vers Fougamou                      59          141                305            138
-- Mouila-Ndende                             79           97                255             14
-- Ndende-Tchibanga                          89          114                340             35
-- Mevang-Laiara                             59          250                176            245
-- Lalara-Mitzic                             56          140                226             24
-- Mitzic-Oyem                              111          117                766             42
-- Lalara-Koumameyong                        65          135                256             23
-- Koumameyong-Ovan-Makokou                 150           66                556             26
-- Ayem-Camp Secteur TP                      95           89                317            242
-- Camp Secteur TP-Mekouyi                  135           46                600             63
--.Lastoursville-La Leyou                    94          172                507            111
-- Koulamoutou-Pana                          42           42                206             32
Total                                  1,277        -,---              6,115            116
(b) Entretien des routes bitumées
<Maintenance of paved roads)
-- Nsilé-Oyan                                20          426                 85             19
-- Oyan-Bifoun                               42          416                250             63
-- Ndjolé-Gare OCTRA                         12          230                199             29
-- Alembé-Mévang                             32          268                220             23
-- Libreville-Cap Esterias                   23        1,539                245             18
-- La Leyou-Moanda                           37          363                126             12
-- Franceville-Kellé                         27          677                232             18
-- Kellé-Léconi                              72          138                341             14
-- Sections with minor works                199           --                210             --
Total                                    464          ---              1.908            _
Total général                          ZL=            Z-=                                95
/a  TRI préliminaire à reviser basé sur une mise à jour des estimations des coOts.
(Preliminary ERR to be revised based on updated cost estimates.)
ApFiN
5 janvier (January 5) 1989



- 70 -
ANNEXE 5-2
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
PROGRAMME TRIENNAL D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER (ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT)
Evaluation Economique d'Entretien en Régie
(Economic Evaluation of Road Maintenance by Force Account)
Hypothèse (Basic assumptions)
Réseau (Road network to be maintained)                  5,186 km
Trafic moyen (Average traffic)                          50 vpd
Total (Total traffic p.a.)                              94,644 500 vkm
CEV/km sans (voc per v. km without)                     CFAF 377
CEV/km avec (voc per v. km with)                             287  -- saving of 24%
avec (voc per v. km with) -- sensitivity              305                80%
Coùt (Costs with project)                   Total    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5
Achat équipement (Equipment purchase)                     3,915      2,444        725       746         --        --
Assistance technique (Technical assistance) -- 2/3    1,350            460       460        430        100
Opérations (Operations)                                  14,635      2,635     3,000      3,000      3,000    3,000
Formation (Training)                                      1,325        605       180        180        180       180
21,225     6,144      4,365      4,356      3,180    3,180
Coûts (Costs)       Avantages (Benefits)            Net
Année (year) 1              6,144                   --                     6,144
2            4,365                 5,111 (60%)                 746
3            4,356                 7,666 (90%)               3,310
4             3.180                8,518                     5,338
5             3,180                8,518                     5,338
6             3,180                8,518                     5,338
TRI (ERR) 43%
20% réduction avantages (If 20%o lower benefits) -- ERR: 24%
AFlIN, 2 novembre (November 2) 1988



- 71 -
APPENDIX
Page 1 of 2
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
Project File Code.
and/or
Document Title                                        Bank Document  No.
I. Sector Background
1-1  Transport Sector Memorandum (May 30, 1980)                               2970-GA
1-2  Transport Strategy Note, November 21, 1988                               7511-GA
1-3 Loi-Programme 1989-1991 des Investissements Publics et Para-
publics                                                                  D 235 34
1-4  Nomination d'un Coordinateur du Projet                                   235 35
1-5  Etude d'une Tarification Appliquée aux Poids Lourds                      235 36
II. Project Preparation and Background Studies
2-1  Etude des besoins et de l'organisation de l'entretien routier,           D 205 88
Transroute/SEDES/SINORG, July 1985
2-2  Définition d'un programme de relance de l'entretien routier,             D 205 89
Transroute, October 1987
2-3  Programme des interventions que le LBTPG pourraient réaliser             D 205 90
en vue de la mise en place d'un projet d'entretien routie.
au Gabon, Laboratoire du bâtiment et des travaux publics
(LBTP), 22 octobre 1987
2-4  Projet d'entretien routier, comptage de trafic, Rapport No. 1,           D 205 91
LBTP, 2 février 1988
2-5  Projet d'entretien routier, comptage de trafic, LBTP,                    D 205 92
Rapport No. 2, 17 février 1988
2-6  Programme des interventions proposées par le LBTPG dans le               D 205 93
cadre de la mise en place du projet triennal d'entretien
routier au Gabon. Etudes générales et diagnostic du réseau,
LBTP, avril 1988
. .1. ..



- 72 -
APPENDIX
Page 2 of 2
Documents in the Pro3ect File (con't
Project File Code.
and/or
Document Title                                      Bank Document  No.
2-7  Programme transitoire pour l'entretien routier, analyse                D 205 94
économique, SNGE/BCEOM, mars 1988
2-8  Programme transitoire d'entretien routier 1989-1991,                   D 205 95
CG2R-STER, MTPECAT, juillet 1988
2-9  Programme transitoire d'entretien routier, 1989-1991, rapport          D 205 96
de présentation, CG2R-STER, MTPECAT, juillet 1988
2-10  Préparation d'un programme triennal pour l'entretien du                D 205 97
réseau routier, volet matériel T. P., Transroute, février 1988
AF1IN
February 24, 1989



MAP SECTION



|  '                                                           2'                                                           4
C A M  E R O O N
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ro -ç                                         i -  -  -  ,- -   -        --            
` ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    br                  Toblm  Sc,g,rE ec à'
'  j                         if VYz e                   S ,  _   N  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
'    EQUATORIAL QOUtAT                                   ' OsRNg=um 0LF THE
G U I N E A 
Coccbeocl>  >  YS\N Z..M..-., êdo,CONGO
Cc r  t  A              (RIO    MUNI)J   o                      *              Ocon                                       O
LIBRE VIL                l..gor
r==bs E           .         esjt;            Ndl                    -f,0                                                                        el=b
\                                          Y Sf   N.         y= \Ncr *OS                                                *\                  v>.v             PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC
V  \ <     n                   v                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~THE
GOOL/&~~~~~~-.    Foogomoc~~eCNG
0' s? Ité E  jL
ct"J^_      \  ve "&À                            . -ROAD NETWORKS
'Th-bo ' ~~~~RESEAU ROUTIER
t. ,do 5s g -\ ~~~~~CONTRACT WORKCS:                                                     Petrolo,', ond Gos
N      Y    A`   N       G      A          /ew     TRAVAVX A t'ENTREPRISEr                        Petrol er Gos
<   /   \                 tz      «    _~~~~ Improved Moinlenonce cf Uopovnd Roods    GoId
J~~~~~~~~C                        .    Bnti«reticn Amélioré Routjes NCD Rilseu,e  Or
_ : ; S t - § X > _~~~~~~~~~~~ Mointenonce cf Poved Roods                                                                  - Unonium,
M lt                         ~~~~~~~~V=ungou g>  Reinetaes,b Roubes 2fllsnnn                 Uroniumn
9>_r   <.i  \   <,                                               t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zincs
4d9r :   A /\'    >_   PnimolyfRcodo
t!'                                             >      \>                               Pool, Pniocipoles                             ùr
x                                                  X i                                Aut~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEnt Reedes         Moràgoonot
NlGERlb /   ~~~~~~ y   CEIsTRAL                       X                        _   Roilnzgds ~~~~~~~~Ceompleted              "fot
REPUlùC                                                                                 Colewgy                                     Rn
>- xCOMEROON                                                                                            -     Funiculoiretee
S5             <~~c  r _i\                                                                               Inlereoîieeol Airpori                       Merois
Y> i-        O7-                                                                                                 rIp> eroAoeort Ismo                        Soesceelly Inumdobed Annos
,g._ \ 1w w < Oth~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aces Anroponls                                                                        Reg;cns Ioondelclnn En Soison
'      512  @    IFEUi                                                                             PortsC3 e    vSFnsiny  r  o      oimm
r-                            KILJAIERS fR                                                   <                                                    ® i  erio  Region Copilos  El
\                                *2c ILteeR   p*sp.5p  iPOtO   f0   up   4b                                                             d emna Ptcir@NelionoslCopdie
fflt   \gs rjs   Al I  e           Zorsi        bl       Pio      cC      sb       b*l                                                                Cepitele Nctmeeb
RESEAU ROUTIPrEeroRepeou
» ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-   .cc  onscc co R-dnotLL                 o       nv.Cn ond_ ,,,,,                                                              Intuemotionol Boondonins               c
_ ~~~~\ AN G oL b                            m,.O;   n',onnc's.o.u',nsd orLF7rXO FeOd=,_                                                                    FroolnPirn  Notio,soles               '2
o'                                         r   '.                                                       'o'~~~~~~~~~~TAVU     LETRME.P-IrG



C  A  M  E  R O  O  N
Ebo-*
_2~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -e9 -Mnv -'-'-'-'-'-  - -' 'V -                                                     5---
F          -2          ,          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
E Q  U  A T O  R I A  L                       AokNgoOF  THE
G U I NEA EA                                                                                                    0  THE
| Eib-ss    F                                       ,                                CONGO
(RIO  MUNI)                  j        \S_S,                                                     ~.
Caso dncoh                       4                                                                                              ___.._iJ //XMnlsonbo 
Ca Estvéuer ias  D    O  a        °          Ja\ 
Css  Esl\An  0a   76g          <     _.~                                                                                                  2
o   tT  ,11 3900e | Tnnn,7 oO
o.                                                                                                                                              0*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C     
1,  ffi       .j~,     /"      L O         E    N "   snA'          t  t;                                                                    PEOPLE'S
-E   O//G  C OU d/ É XADA``"_'-                                                         \                    1'  REPUBLIC
(Partit074i                       tasnb<otnE      O    t                                           o          o    o (7 a nil &    - \R                   X OCONGOng    ~0
Gnstil
~    CONGO
OQGOOt 0UE".>                 Fooganoas     a    a     A'/                          ,              Laenoo>unn          .t    '          T'J 
0 g O O & É'~~~~~~~~Ms g
i.s               f<         5<            Seono    4    <s                                                       ;;S\   tecoso
-2ù   Y_ffi}  <               ;            t                 S       à             \   \Mo sgao2-
`''~'-""      XtX   \ "'0aa5ess                     '  ROAD TRAFFIC VOLUJMES (1987)
'' ,'`''`<_<hianga W >'                  VOLUMES DE TRAFIC ROUTIER (1987)
` '`  ^77   Ât    < Etéké                                                     G    0
. i T -I pJ i 1é 4;,gMayumb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a \lVounoa/ii=V7les Par Jour
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~x 'yg                                                                                   4 Por7s
Pivers
NIcEIao ~'          j   CLNIRAL                                                                                             Rsei-,ese
t 1   eeF3LO    -                                                                                   Sawamps
CAMEROON                                                                                 M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RO DTAFIC   OLMS,197
+,  tZe400N    \  .   _3                                   XX~~~~~~~~~~~~ Seosoznalln lnandoted Aregs
<"  '' 2F2e-'-'I   ({                                                                                              Foi-est Reses',es ond National Park,
. ,'A d0 N. 5tiNtO1C@                                                               N                   tCopitatles Rgoo
el~~~~ 9
\   Xi    coKI >    tLOMFI45O,te 2pSa  p  tO 2a.p,ILLO,s.aa5 17,I2,a  ,pi0tae Narionale
e /- .                                          |   | , _________________________ _                _ -    Raglan boonda,.es
w        ÂA   >  Z ~~Ais IIEn                 20 l2s0 v  40   t»      tg      ;E                                        F,ontiersRegiaealesii
^~~~~~~ <                                                                                                        ____ Int 0 »atestt --roaanale t o1onUIdories C
\L.i    r             n.4~sa5-n5~O5toat                                                                 FrotieA t'nwte.So_n~alns
c'                                                   'r rrr m0»tu1 rm»:e= rumtr-eecrvato
_   A N G G L A  -  . n 1l ob M rs rml e *   * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e  Xtww . Xal                   _P.,t
.e, _.  _   ,   P   ,,,          __  ,_   _                     15                                                     Ijr                       R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R



