Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3046 GA
                    (Road Maintenance Project)
                              between
                       THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 10, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3046 GA
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1989, between THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     (B)  the   Borrower   intends   to   contract   from  African
Development Bank  (AfDB)  a  loan  (the  AfDB  Loan)  in an amount
equivalent to thirty  million  dollars ($30,000,000) approximately
to assist in  financing  part  of  the  Project  on  the terms and
conditions set forth in an  agreement (the AfDB Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and AfDB;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MTPECAT" means the  Borrower's ministry responsible for
public works, equipment, construction and territorial development;
     (b)  "DGEP" means  the  General  Directorate  of  Studies and
Programming within MTPECAT;
     (c)  "DGTP" means  the  General  Directorate  of Public Works
within MTPECAT;
     (d)  "DERA"  means  the  Directorate  for  Road  and  Airport
Maintenance within DGTP;
     (e)  "Road Research Center" means a service within DGEP;
     (f)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (g)  "BEAC" means  Banque  Centrale  des  Etats  de l'Afrique
Centrale; and
     (h)  "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" means  the Franc de la Communaute
Financiere Africaine, the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  in  CFAF  a  special  account in the Libreville
branch of BEAC on terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1993,
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Page  3
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MTPECAT with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial,  engineering, planning and
training practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Action Plan  set  forth  in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. Beginning November 30, 1989, and not later than
November 30 of each year thereafter, the Borrower shall forward to
the Bank, for its review and comments, its proposed annual program
of  transport  expenditures  for  the  following  year  and  shall
finalize  said   program,   taking   the   Bank's   comments  into
consideration.
     Section 3.04. Beginning November 30, 1989, and not later than
November 30 of each year thereafter, the Borrower shall forward to
the Bank, for its approval,  its  proposed annual programs of road
maintenance to be carried out under  Parts  A and B of the Project
during the following calendar year.
Page  4
     Section 3.05. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall include  in  each  of  its  annual programs of road
maintenance by contract, to  be  carried  out  under Part A of the
Project, only works  technically  and  economically justified, and
attaining  an  economic  rate  of  return  of  at  least  10% when
estimated to exceed CFAF 200 million per contract.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account, for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out a study on  road user taxes according to terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
Page  5
     (b)  not later than January 1,  1990, furnish to the Bank for
its review and comments a proposed program elaborated on the basis
of the  conclusions  of  the  above-mentioned  study  and aimed at
ensuring an appropriate contribution  from  heavy vehicle users to
the cost of road maintenance; and
     (c)  thereafter,   undertake   the   above-mentioned  program
according to a timetable, all  as determined in agreement with the
Bank; the first  set  of  measures  to  improve cost recovery from
heavy  vehicle  users,  included  under  said  program,  shall  be
implemented not later than July 1, 1990.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The AfDB  Loan  Agreement  shall  have  failed to become
effective by March 31, 1990,  or  such  later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however,  that  the  provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for  the Project are available to the
Borrower from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of any  grant  or  loan including the
                    AfDB Loan Agreement  made  to the Borrower for
                    the financing of  the  Project shall have been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in  part,  pursuant   to   the  terms  of  the
                    agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Project are available
                    to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms
                    and conditions consistent with the obligations
                    of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of  this  Agreement  shall  occur,   subject  to  the  proviso  of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
     Section 6.01.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the date
of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
     Section 7.01.  The  Minister  responsible  for planification,
development  and  economy  of   the   Borrower  is  designated  as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
         Ministere de la Planification, du Developpement
            et de l'Economie
         B.P. 172
         Libreville, Gabon
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              GOPLAN                           5370 GO
              Libreville
    With copy to:
         Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
         B.P. 912
         Libreville, Gabon
                                             Telex:
                                               5537 GO
    For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                   THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
                   By /s/ Jean-Robert Odzaga
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  7
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Works under                  600,000      60%
     Part B(b) of
     the Project
(2)  Equipment,
     vehicles, tools,
     initial stock of
     spare parts and
     computers:
     (a)  acquisition           2,600,000      65%
     (b)  rehabilitation        1,000,000      75%
(3)  Consumables:
     (a)  for Part B           14,500,000      75% through
          of the                               December 31, 1990
          Project                              and 55% thereafter
     (b)  for Part C(a)           700,000      75% through
          of the                               December 31, 1990
          Project (TPU)                        and 55% thereafter
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Consultants'               6,500,000      80%
     services and
     training
(5)  Supplies for                 900,000      75% through
     operational                               December 31, 1990
     support services                          and 55%
                                               thereafter
(6)  Fellowships                  200,000      100%
(7)  Unallocated                3,000,000
                                _________
        TOTAL                 30,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "consumables"  means  fuel,  lubricants, spare
parts (excluding initial supply), tires and batteries; and
     (b)  the term  "supplies  for  operational  support services"
means fuel, lubricants,  spare  parts  (excluding initial supply),
tires and batteries for  the  operation of the training production
unit under Part C(a) of  the  Project and the Road Research Center
under Part E(b) of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
Page  8
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $2,000,000, may be  made  in  respect of Categories (2), (3)(b)
and (4) on account of  payments  made for expenditures before that
date but after July 1, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  help the Borrower:
(a) preserve past investments  in  the  road network; (b) optimize
the use of the  limited  resources available for road maintenance;
(c) maintain vehicle operating  costs  at  a reasonable level; (d)
improve access to productive  agricultural and forestry areas; and
(e) initiate changes  in  policies  regarding the organization and
methods of execution of road maintenance.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Road Maintenance by Contract
     The carrying out of  a  three-year program of maintenance for
the most important sections  of  the road network, including about
460 km of paved roads, 1300 km of gravel roads, and urgent repairs
on about 29 steel bridges.
Part B:   Road Maintenance by Force Account
     The  carrying  out  of   a   three-year  program  of  routine
maintenance and spot  rehabilitation  of  gravel  and earth roads,
including:
     (a)  the   operation   of   mechanized   and  labor-intensive
maintenance departmental  units,  the  management  and operational
improvement of  existing  equipment,  including the rehabilitation
thereof,  and  the  acquisition  of  additional  road  maintenance
equipment; and
     (b)  the improvement of  about  three regional workshops, the
acquisition of workshop equipment and spare parts for regional and
sub-divisional workshops.
Part C:   Road Maintenance Staff Training
     (a)  The carrying out of a  training program for personnel of
the mechanized  maintenance  units,  including  the acquisition of
equipment  and  the  establishment  and  operation  of  a training
production unit (TPU).
     (b)  The organization and execution of seminars and refresher
courses to upgrade the skills of road maintenance staff, including
the acquisition of  equipment,  study  trips  and the provision of
fellowships.
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening
     Strengthening MTPECAT capabilities in:
     (a)  the planning, execution,  management  and supervision of
road  maintenance  programs,  including  equipment  management and
operations;
     (b)  the coordination and  implementation of road maintenance
training activities;
     (c)  the monitoring of Project execution; and
     (d)  the setting up of a  cost accounting system for all road
maintenance activities;
Page  9
all  including  the  provision  of  technical  assistance  and the
acquisition of computer equipment and vehicles.
Part E:   Studies/Road Research Center
     (a)  The carrying out of  technical  and economic studies for
the development of the  road  sector, including the preparation of
a  road  master  plan,  studies  regarding  traffic,  network  and
materials.
     (b)  Support  to  the   Road   Research  Center  through  the
acquisition of equipment, vehicles and supplies.
                          *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning December 15, 1994
     through June 15, 2004                         1,500,000
