Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17003-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FORA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$51.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
STATE OF BAHIA
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FORA
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
August 20, 1997
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Brazil Country Sector
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1997)
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$1.05 = US$1.00
R$1.00 = US$0.95
R$1 million  US$952,380.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout this report
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A, O&M                                Administration, Operation and Maintenance
BB                                    Bank of Brazil
BNB                                   Bank of the Northeast of Brazil
CAS                                   Country Assistance Strategy
CERB                                  Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahia
CIRH                                  Conselho Institucional de Recursos Hidricos
COELBA                                Electrical Company of the State of Bahia
CTGA                                  Technical Commission for Environmental Management
EMBASA                                Empresa Baiana de Aguas e Saneamento S. A.
HMIS                                  Hydro-meteorological Information System
IERR                                  Internal Economic Rate of Return
INCRA                                 Federal Land Reform Agency
M&E                                   Monitoring and Evaluation
MEPF                                  Ministry of Agrarian Reform
MIS                                   Management Information System
NROP                                  Northeast Rural Development Program
NGO                                   Non-Govermmental Organizations
NBF                                   Not Bank-Financed
PAPP                                  Programa de Apoio as Pequenos Produtores
RAA                                   Regido Administrativa da Agua
SEAGRI                                Secretaria de Agricultura, Irrigag'do e Reforma Agraria
SEPLANTEC                             Secretaria de Planejamento, Ciencia e Tecnologia
SG                                    State Govemment
SOE                                   Statement of Expenditure
SRHI                                  Superintendencia de Recursos Hidricos
SRHSH                                 Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos, Saneamento e Habita&o
STU                                   States Technical Units
TOR                                   Terms of Reference
UGP                                   Unidade de Gestdo do Projeto
WRM                                   Water Resources Management
WUA                                   Water Users Associations
Vice President:             Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director, Acting: Stefan Alber
SectorDirector, Acting:    William Partridge
Task Managers:              Peter Wittenberg/Luiz Gabriel Azevedo



Brazil
Bahia Water Resources Management Pilot Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data  ..............................................                                                     1
Block 1: Project Description ..............................................    2
1.        Project Development Objectives ..............................................2
2.        Project Components .......2......................................2
3.        Benefits and Target Population ..............................................3
4.        Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ..............................................           3
Block 2; Project Rationale ..............................................4
5.   CAS Objectives Supported by the Project                                          .4
6.    Main Issues of the State Government water resources strategy                                 .4
7.        Sector Issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                         .5
8.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                                .6
9.        Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies                                               .6
10.   Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                  .7
11.  Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership                                        .7
12.       Value added of Bank support ...................                               ..8
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments  ..........................................................8
13. Economic Assessment                                                   .8
14. Financial Assessment                                                  .9
15. Technical Assessment                                                  .9
16. Institutional Assessment .10
17. Social Assessment .11
18. Environmental Assessment .12
19. Participatory Approach .13
20. Sustainability .13
21. Critical Risks .14
22.  Possible Controversial Aspects .15
Block 4: Main Credit Conditions .......................................................... 15
23.       Effectiveness Conditions ..........................................................  15
24.       Other ..........................................................                                     15
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies .......................................................... 15
List of Annexes
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary ..........................................................                    18
Annex 2:  Detailed Project Description .........................                ................................. 21
Annex 3:  Cost and Financing Summary ..........................................................                24
Annex 4:  Estimated Project Costs ..........................................................                   25
Annex 5:  Economic and Financial Analysis Summary .................................................... 26
Annex 6:  Project Institutional Arrangement, Monitoring and Evaluation ............                      .......... 31
Annex 7:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................. .............. 35
Annex 8:  Environmental Assessment and Resettlement Plan ........................                  ................. 37
Annex 9:  Project Processing Budget and Schedule ......................................................... 43
Annex 10: Documents in the Project File .......................................................... 44
Annex 11: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ............................................... 46
Annex 12: Brazil At A  Glance ..........................................................  53



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
LA I
Project Appraisal Document
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
T a    M  a ia   e       et R    W i t n  e  W     br  eC o                                       n   y I)  e  t  r    G   b n d  T      n k    i
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .                              . . . . . . . . . . .     .         ,,,':'''""'.' ".'. - " " ' "':-'.:. '. . .'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .,   ...,,.......,,                        ,....                    '    'R'          -,.l.  .  ...........................   ... . . .   .  .       .  .
....   .... .....       ''                    :.........
..,,..,.,...,.,-..--.... .... .........
?rqject 11): ~-P       WI        b''              Aetr Thvfode:al an  S:T                                                         a11 Sutanal
'               '   - - "'  "' " . .   ~~~~~~~~. .... ... ....                                                                                                   ...... .   .  . 
,        g ':i,:i.:;.:,-.:.:.:: :     nie     L"',, ' a      .. '." X.. . ..,.t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....,-                   ' . '.   """'"''..I'."-.
::R*t ViR:wcsg :lat* ::::El:E' C-erlit .~u                                                                                         . .te. .                          .....
d T''m:                                               '-"eiree. Sii '  ''  '  ' '',,;...........
,,.'',.'..,""''"''"'""'-."''""' .'..,''''" "''."'"'''".''"
R .-............................ .. .. .. ..   .. .. .. .. . .. .. ... . ..-'RR''  'RRRRR
> R-R SS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ... .. .. ..                            . ..... .   . b. . .         - -    ^ 
c2racep        d (yeaRs): R    R                                            . '    Inl. R                 F R       ..i...                  L    OR-h ..R
WU R D                                                       ....R... 1.yr  . ....s .
R'R .......i'R fe  0  A" '
Service Qbarg~ ........NA                              ......   .......
Fiweing~~~~~~~~a                                                                           X                      ........... (US$in              X
Sonr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XX............. 
Government~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............   ...
Cofinancers~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .....                     ....                              ....... .......
1BRP~~~~~~IDA   ...      .. .......
TOTALTWI.S
Ainiual   12.90  19,80          830                   430. ........                             . ...
CueiW      r. .                                                                                                              .327041.0......2 S~Q
Expeeted efCee~~~...........u .....              ..t.: .e.e..e. .9.7                                                                                   ............Dece.b........



Brazil                                                                                                     Page 2
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                               Project Appraisal Documeni
Block 1: Project Description (see Annex I for Key Performance Indicators)
1. Project development objectives are to:.
A. Provide reliable and sustainable access to water for potable, municipal, industrial and irrigation uses in priority
river basins of the State of Bahia, Brazil, primarily in areas with high concentration ofpoor rural households..
Investments in rural water and irrigation infrastructure construction and rehabilitation would improve the rural
water delivery service by augmenting the year-round water supply for human consumption and productive
purposes. This would result in significant improvements in the standard of living of rural poor households.
Better access to water would improve the overall population's health, sanitation and living standards and increase
the income of small farm families. Provision of sustainable and reliable supplies of irrigation water to farmers in
the three priority river basins would enhance employment opportunities and decrease the vulnerability of the
population and its economy to cyclical and annual droughts which disrupt the local economy and living
conditions, especially of the most poor.
B. Promote participatory management and rational use of water resources in the State of Bahia. The project,
focusing on three priority river basins (Itapicuru, Jacare-Verde and Alto Paraguacu), would establish the
regulatory and institutional frameworks to formulate and implement efficient and sustainable water resources
management policies and plans by: (i) strengthening State institutions, and Basin and Local User Organizations;
(ii)introducing mechanisms to promote efficient resource use and allocation, including tariffs, taxes and user
rights; (iii) implementing a monitoring and information network; and (iv) conducting public education programs
regarding rational water resources use and conservation.
C. Develop sustainable administration, operation and maintenance (A, O&M) systems for rural water supply and
irrigation infrastructure by supporting: (i) water users' organizations; (ii) water resources management
decentralization; (iii) allocation and enforcement of water use rights; (iv) sustainable cost-recovery mechanisms;
and (v) construction and/or installation of storage and conveyance structures, and distribution networks to
optimize the storage, delivery, and use of potable and irrigation supplies within selected areas of the Itapicuru
river basin.
D. Develop a model to be usedfor the rest of the River Basins within Bahia. One of the objectives of this project is
to develop an institutional prototype for all the river basins within Bahia, with concepts which could be applicable
to other States within Brazil.
2. Project components. (see Annex 2)
X .    .........
............................~~~~~~~~~.............. ...... ........ ..... ...  . .  .  .  ...  .  .... ...    .    . .     .....    .......
Water    a   Provide technical and financial resources to strengthen State institutions, and Basin and
Resources       Local User Organizations to effectively manage water resources in the State of Bahia, in
Manage-         a financially and environmentally sustainable manner.
ment      *   Develop a strong public information and user participation program to assure
stakeholder involvement in water resources management.
* Establish an institutional and legal structure, with initial focus given to the three
priority basins, with the technical, financial and legal capacities to: (i) enhance and
stabilize water supplies for the Basin; (ii) coordinate infrastructure A, O&M; (iii)
promote sound environmental approaches and water quality standards; and (iv)
encourage efficient water usage, through allocation and enforcement of water rights,
conflict mediation, tariffs and user education programs.
*   Develop and enhance water users' associations (WUAs) to administer, operate and   30      35.0
maintain water infrastructure in the three priority basins, through technical assistance and
training programs.
Infra-     *   In the Itapicuru River Basin, the priority river basin with the most critical need for
Structure       water infrastructure, the project would construct and rehabilitate storage, conveyance
Investments      and distribution infrastructures. The selection of the investments would be based on
well-defined economic, technical and environmental criteria as well as social and
environmental impact assessments. All infrastructure investments would be consistent
with the Basin's Water Resources Management (WRM) Plan.                          55       65.0
Total                                                                                 85       100
including contingencies



Brazil                                                                                       Page 3
Bahia Water Rewurces Management                                                    Project AppWaisal Docment
3. Benefts and targetpopulat:on.
= Urban and rural water users ofBahia This project would test and validate water resources management
approaches which would generate benefits for the people of the State of Bahia. In Bahia, a State almost
completely within the Drought Polygon of Northeast Brazil, a region which experiences cyclical and often
protracted droughts, the benefits to be derived from enhanced water management would be significant and would
include: (i) stabilized bulk water supplies capable of satisfying critical human and agricultural needs during
droughts; (ii) increased supplies of safe drinking water; (iii) reduced and more equitably assigned total service
costs; (iv) the allocation of water rights to meet economic, social and environmental needs; (v) abatement of
water-vectored health problems among the rural population, (vii) mitigation of severe economic disruption and
heavy out-migration during drought among the rural population; and (vi) reduction of serious environmental
problems stemming from inadequate resources management.
=  Within the State, the households of the three priority river basins would benefit from the adoption of and
participation in sound water resources management and infrastructure administration, and operation and
maintenance (A, O&M) policies at the local and user levels. The project would strengthen participatory water
users' associations and the "Water Administration Regions" (Regioes Administrativas da Agua, RAA),
corresponding to the three priority basins. The project would increase the efficiency of the water resources
management, infrastructure A, O&M; and ensure adequate and stabilized water supplies, improving the basins'
environmental and economic resistance to drought.
=> Within the priority river basins, the poor urban and ruralfamilies of the Itapicuru River Basin would benefit from
project-funded infrastructure activities, which would significantly increase the access of 2,000 rural, extremely
poor, inhabitants to a year-round supply of potable water, and water for irrigation. Providing adequate ;supplies of
clean water to the poor households would improve their health and sanitation conditions, directly reducing the
incidence of malnutrition and water-borne disease. Increased access to water for irrigation would raise sectoral
productivity and rural household incomes, and create employment opportunities. Increasing the agricultural
productivity would stimulate the depressed local economy which, after having recently suffered a five-year
drought, is experiencing very high rural emigration rates. The project's stimulus to the economy would increase
employment opportunities, creating a disincentive to rural migration.
4. Instiutional and implementation arrangements.
*  Impementation period: Five (5) years.
*  Executing agrng. Water Resources Directorate (Superintenddncia de Recursos Hidricos, SRH) of the Secretariat
for Water Resources, Sanitation and Housing (Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos, Saneamento e Habitac&o,
SRHSH). SRH would bear the responsibilities for project administration and supervision. Within this agency, a
project management unit, the Unidade de Gestao do Projeto u(GPm would be responsible for: (i) disbursement;
(ii) procurement; (iii) progress reporting; (iv) preparation, for submission to the Bank, of the Annual Operating
Plans (AOP); (v) monitoring and evaluation; and (vi) overall program management. SRH would also: (i) maintain
accounts and other records on their operations; (ii) have access to the Project Special Account; (iii) hire and
supervise external auditors for the annual audits of their accounts and project performance; and (iv) prepare Loan
withdrawal applications, etc., in accordance with Bank policies and procedures. The SRH personnel have
received training in Bank procuremnent procedures. Additional training is scheduled with hands-on start-up
assistance regarding Bank procedures, including disbursement. Personnel, experienced in Bank procedures and
guidelines, willIbe added to the implementation team. The SRH would maintain direct contacts and liaison with
the World Bank.
*  Prject oversighL An Inter-Institutional Water Resources Council (Conrelho Institucional de Recursos Hidricos,
CIRH), which will include representatives of the SRHSH, acting as Chair, the Secretariat of Planning, Science and
Technology (Secretaria de Planejamento, Ciencia e Tecnologia, SEPLANTEC), and the Secretary of Agriculture,
(Secretaria de Agricultura, Irrigacao e Reforma Agrdria, SEAGRI) would provide overall guidance and political
liaison to the SRH.
*  Accounting. financial reporting and auditing arrangements: An independent firm, acceptable to the Bank would
be contracted to provide financial and fiscal oversight.



Brazil                                                                                       Page 4
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                   Project Appraisal Document
*  Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements: Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, within the UGP would be responsible
for Project M&E. The Borrower would prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual project implementation
progress reports. Each year, the Bank would conduct at least two Supervision Missions. SRH and the Bank
would jointly conduct a Mid-Term Review around January 2000, to evaluate progress and, if necessary, modify
activities in light of experience gained.
Baseline Data: An important component of the project Monitoring and Evaluation System would be the baseline
database of the beneficiary households' socio-economic conditions, which would serve as a basis against which to
monitor improvements in beneficiaries' overall standard-of-living, including their level of income, health,
employment and organizational capabilities. A socio-economic study of the beneficiaries, conducted during
project preparation, would be the basis for the data bank. The M&E Unit would be responsible for up-dating,
through periodic beneficiary surveys, and maintenance of the data bank.
* Infrastructure civil works. As part of its Water Management Strategy, the State Government undertook a US$6
million study which analyzed the States' water needs and resources and infriastructure by river basin, prioritized
its critical needs and identified the most urgent infrastructure requirements. On the basis of this analysis, a State
Water Plan, by river basin, would be developed, including a priority list of infrastructure investments. To
facilitate project implementation, final engineering designs, costs estimates, social and environmental impact
assessments and resettlement plans and compensation plans, acceptable to the Bank, have been completed during
the project preparation phase for all infrastructure components to be financed in the project's first year.
Infrastructure construction would be implemented for the SRH by the relevant public entities (CERB, EMBASA)
responsible for this function within the State.
Block 2. Project Rationale
5. CAS objectives supported by the project.
The project strongly supports the objectives of the CAS stated in document 16582-BR and discussed at the Board of
Executive Directors on June 12, 1997. The current CAS is primarily based on the previous CAS (Report No. 14569-
BR) which emphasized poverty alleviation, efficient resource allocation, environmentally sustainable development,
and Bank policy dialogue and lending directly to the States. The project is fully in line with these objectives as well as
with the more focused ones of the current CAS. In particular the project promotes:
=' Poverty Alleviation by focusing on regional development aimed at increasing household incomes and improving
social conditions of the rural poor;
= Efficient Resource Allocation by developing the legal, institutional and physical systems necessary to manage
scarce water resources in a sustainable and integrated manner at the lowest practical level;
=> Environmentally Sustainable Development by supporting more efficient management of water resources; and,
>  Bank Policy Dialogue and Lending to States, with the Bank as a last-instance and catalytic lender focusing on the
water subsector in which private participation has been the slowest to develop.
6. Main issues of the State Government water resources strategy are:
AUleviate ruralpoverty. The State recognizes the effect scarce water resources have in aggravating and perpetuating
rural poverty, and that it is the rural poor who suffer most severely from insufficient and inadequately operated and
maintained infrastructure. Insufficient water depresses crop yields, limits production to subsistence crops, and,
periodically devastates farm harvests and livestock herds. In Bahia, only 11% of the 1,466,000 ha of irrigable land is
under irrigation. Unreliable and poor quality water supplies contribute to lower health and sanitation conditions.
Less than 10% of the rural population has access to safe water, and only a quarter have proper residential sanitation
facilities. During drought periods, many rural households need to walk many hours to the nearest water source, while
others must await the arrival of publicly-financed water delivery trucks. (State of Bahia Irrigation Plan, 1993, and
Indicadores Sociais. A Bahia na Decada de 90, Superintendencia de Estudos Econ6micos e Sociais da Bahia, 1995).



Brazil                                                                                      Page 5
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                  Project Appraisal Document
=' To help this population survive the annually recurring water shortages, the State, along with the Municipal and
Federal Government, fnances: (i) the delivery of water by trucks (carros pipas) to the rural communities
(representing US$900,000 to the State and municipal 1995 budgets); (ii) civil works programs to ensure
employment for the drought-affected populations (requiring US$7 million in Federal and State funds in 1995);
and (iii) the Cesta Bdsica program, which provides food rations and subsidizes the sale of basic food commodities
to the very poor.
=> In addition, in response to the rural communities' overwhelming demand, the State supports, through the
Programa Produzir (with finance from the Bank's PAPP project), small-scale rural community water supply
systems in the semi-arid region. In 1996, the Program committed US$9.2 million for the construction of over 300
small dams as well as simple water supply systems, wells and desalination equipment (Decentralized Rural
Development, World Bank, August 1996).
Effective water resources management is one of the State Government's central challenges for future economic
development. To respond to its population's growing water demand, the State must balance and distribute its
available water resources in an efficient and sustainable manner. While the coastal zone has abundant supplies, the
majority of the State lies within the Northeast Drought Polygon and is subjected to annual and cyclical droughts.
Effective water management can optimize the allocation and use of water resources throughout the State, mitigate
water conflicts stemming from competing uses, and relieve water scarcities affecting the semi-arid rural areas.
Resolution of drought vulnerability is paramount to the State's economic development.
In 1995, the State Government (SG), in recognition of the urgent need for a comprehensive water resources
management plan to resolve its complex water problems, began a planning effort under the Secretariat of Water
Resources, Sanitation and Housing (SRHSH) and, as a result, upgraded the Water Resources Coordination within the
SRHSH to a Water Resources Directorate (SRH). The SRH was given responsibility for water resources planning and
management, including technical studies, inventory, and registry of water users, issuance of water permits, hydrologic
and meteorological monitoring and maintaining a hydrologic database.
In addition, the State committed to the decentralization of water resources management, divided the State into 10
"Water Administration Regions" (Regi6es Administrativas da Agua, RAA), each corresponding to a major watershed.
Through the RAA, water users and their associations would have a convenient channel to express their demands to the
SRH. The regional offices of each RAA would facilitate the issuance of water permits, the resolution of conflicts, and,
the operation and maintenance (A,O&M) of the State's hydrological and meteorological monitoring network.
The SRH would support the strengthening of existing and fornation of new Water User's Associations (WUA). The
WUAs and the corresponding RAAs would jointly resolve water management issues within their jurisdiction, using
the State Water Resource Council (CIRH) as last resorts for conflict resolution.
As reflected in its Water Sector Policy Letter (See Annex lO.D) the State recognizes the urgent need to introduce
economically, socially and environmentally sustainable water management practices throughout the RAAs. The view
of water as a public good is gradually giving way to an appreciation of water as an economic resource, requiring
efficient management and direct user participation. (Water Resources Management: A World Bank Policy Paper,
1993).
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.
Alleviate rural poverty and improve the rural standard of living. Water supply management issues would be
addressed through the design and establishment of institutional and infrastructure systems which would stabilize
supplies during drought, allocate supplies according to explicit and agreed upon priorities and alleviate the impact of
shortages on the rural poor. The project would identify infrastructure investments by prioritizing proposals according
to their social and economic impact as well as financial and environmental sustainability. Through the project, the
Borrower would receive the training and skills to monitor and enforce its water resources policies.
Introduce an inter-sectoral approach to water resources management As recommended in the World Bank's Water
Resources Management Policy Paper, and supported by the State Water Sector Policy Letter (See Annex IO.D) the
project would apply an inter-sectoral approach to water resources management by: (i) integrating water resources'
eco-systems with the multi-sectoral water demands; (ii) emphasizing decentralization; and (iii) incorporating



Brazil                                                                                           Page 6
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                      Project Appraisal Document
stakeholder participation, especially in A, O&M. Through the project, the water rights program would be effectively
administered and a hydro-meteorological information data base would be established and maintained.
To ensure success, the project would support extensive user education programs to: (i) promote the public
appreciation of clean water as an economic and environmentally sensitive resource; (ii) support the formation and
strengthening of water users' associations (WUAs); and (iii) establish sustainable cost-recovery mechanisms.
Comprehensive environmental assessment and adoption of sound and sustainable watershed management practices
would ensure compatibility with environmental objectives.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection.
No project or Status Quo Alternative:
The alternative of maintaining the present scenario of insufficient and unreliable water supplies was rejected because
of the increasing associated economic and social costs, related to poor health, crop loss, and lack of employment
opportunities in the drought-stricken interior of Bahia. With increasing population pressures, the adverse impacts of
drought in the form of health costs, social costs from migration of affected populations to core cities and instability of
the over-all economy of the State demanded immediate resolution of the State's chronic water problems. In addition,
the lack of sustainable recovery of operation and maintenance costs for water resources infrastructure has led to a
continued deterioration of the system, further exacerbating the water problem.
Strengthening central control alternative:
This alternative was rejected because of the historical experience that centralized control and management of water
resources does not respond in a timely and efficient manner to local and regional needs due to, inter alia, an absence
of stakeholder involvement. Under this scenario, O&M cost recovery is unlikely as the stakeholders are unwilling to
pay unless they participate in resource management at the local level.
Reinforcing existing institutions, without altering the institutional structure and relationships:
This approach was rejected as the present structure lacks sufficient legal and political authority to coordinate the
various relevant bodies and reconcile competitive water demands. The establishment of an Inter-Institutional Council
(CIRHI) and the upgrading of the SRH are ftmdamental to the successful achievement of the State's water resources
management objectives. The CIRH, with the participation of relevant secretariats and other entities, would build
consensus and reconcile conflicts. While the SRH has been upgraded, it will need to be further strengthened in order
to effectively exercise its authority and gain the creditability of the water-related entities within the State. Finally, the
existing system lacks the participatory stakeholder involvement critical for the successful implementation of
sustainable O&M cost recovery.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies.
World Bank:
Water Resources Management Projects in Mexico (presented to the Board in 1996) and Morocco (under preparation)
provided valuable guidance in the design of this project's institutional strengthening component;
Proposed Brazil PROAGUA project is expected to support this project by financing the construction of
complementary water infrastructure;
Brazil Ceara Water Pilot Project, in preparation of the proposed CearA Water Resources Management Project
(PROGERIRH), is expected to provide valuable lessons concerning effective measures to improve water resources
management at the State level in the northeastern Brazil;
Rural Poverty Alleviation Project-Bahia (Programa de Apoio ao Pequenos Productor, PAPP), which supports the
Programa Produzir in Bahia, would contribute to ensuring that beneficiaries can maximize the potential gains from
improved water access, by providing valuable technical assistance in irrigated farming techniques and financial
support for the construction of water distribution networks.
Inter-American Development Bank:
The Brazil Bahia Azul project provides infrastructure and technical assistance to improve urban water resources
management.



Brazil                                                                                           Page 7
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                      Project Appraisal Document
10. Lessons Learned. (see Document on File)
The project represents one of the first State-level efforts in Brazil to implement the guidance contained in the Bank's
Policy Statement as well as those lessons learned in the Bank's extensive experience in irrigation, rural poverty
alleviation and grassroots development of beneficiary participation. This initial phase in the three priority basins,
supplemented with the experiences gained in the State of Ceara, will be used as a water resources management model
for other States within the Northeast Drought Polygon. The following concepts form the foundation of this effort:
* World Bank Water Resources Policy Guidance stresses the importance of establishing an integrated water
resources management approach at the basin and local level to reconcile cross-sectoral water demands. For this
reason, the project would emphasize institutional strengthening and inter-institutional coordination (Water
Resources Management Policy. World Bank, 1995).
* Conflict Resolution. Inter-sectoral allocation of water is a sensitive issue, involving high political costs and
challenging decision-making issues. To facilitate consensus among the various parties, sound conflict resolution
mechanisms as well as clearly delineated areas of authority and responsibility are crucial. For this reason, the
project would: (i) strengthen the conflict resolution institutions, from the Water Users' Associations and RAAs to
the CIRH; (ii) implement the Water Law, especially those aspects related to water rights allocation, administration
and enforcement. (Country Experiences with Water Resources Management, World Bank, 1992).
*   Water Markets, Water Tariffs and Cost Recovery. Rational water use can be achieved through the establishment
of water rights, with water charges reflecting recovery of sustainable costs. Bank experience has indicated that,
for such water rights systems to operate, a minimum level of competency in the institutional, legal and regulatory
frameworks is a necessary condition. In addition, effective collection of water charges is a function of the
stakeholders' participation in the process and appreciation of the benefits to be derived from the system.
Introduction of water use charges prior to delivering demonstrable benefits to users inevitably results in
controversy and lack of adequate collection experience. Experience points to the need for sound educational and
public information programs. Based on these findings, the project would develop the required legal and
institutional frameworks, benefit delivery mechanisms, and user participatory involvement, and would conduct
extensive public education programs. A key project objective is to introduce bulk water charges, within the
priority basins, at a level that would permit the financial sustainability of the administration, operation and
maintenance of the water systems. These charges would be introduced during project implementation as soon as
practically possible. (Water Resources Management Policy. World Bank, 1995).
* Decentralization and Beneficiary Participation. Bank's experience has convincingly confirmed the need to
decentralize and promote stakeholder participation in water resources management. Bank projects in the
Northeast have demonstrated that, while firm government commitment to the project objectives is absolutely
essential to help compensate and overcome many institutional weaknesses, the stronger the user participation and
sense of beneficiary "ownership", the more success the project has in achieving its development objectives.
Building on this experience, the project would focus on the water users' associations as the primary agents for
basin-wide and local water resources management. (Design and Operation of Smallholder Irrigation in South
Asia. World Bank, 1995).
11. Borrower's strong commitment and ownership of the project:
This project is an important first-phase component of the State Water Resources Plan, under which the State
Government has already ( Brazil: Management of Water Resources, LAI Economic Notes No. 4, World Bank,
September, 1995):
=> created a Water Resources Directorate (SRH), specifically responsible for water resources planning and
management;
=> promoted decentralization by dividing the State into 10 "Water Administration Regions" (RAA), each
corresponding to a major watershed, or to a number of smaller adjacent watersheds;



Brazil                                                                                       Page 8
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                   Project Appraisal Document
=>  formulated a State Water Resources Management Strategy to: (i) coordinate institutional cooperation and
strengthen State-level agencies; (ii) develop cost-recovery mechanisms and decentralize A, O&M of water
resources infrastructure; (iii) promote integrated management of water resources between and within watersheds;
(iv) facilitate private sector participation; and (v) support the development of the infrastructure to ensure reliable
water supply throughout the State;
=> invested over US $6 million in the preparation of Water Resources Master Plans for the major watersheds and to
prioritize those basins as to critical need and to identify critical infrastructure requirements in those basins;
=> approved a Water Law, which authorizes the State Government and its designated agents to allocate and
administer water rights, to levy and collect water charges, and to designate responsible participatory entities
within the river basins to manage, operate and maintain the water resource systems;
=>  initiated a Water Rights Administration Program which includes the cooperation of the State Electrical Utility
(COELBA) and the State bank which have agreed to withhold services from any water user without valid water
rights;
= allocated significant State and Federally transferred fnancial and human resources, including a Y80 million (US
$645,000) PHRD Japanese Grant, to project preparation.
12. Value added of Bank support to the project is based on the Bank's:
A. Recognized expertise in water resources management projects, including:
*   The Bank's intensive participation in the development of the Brazilian water sector. From 1991 to 1994, 18
water and sanitation loans, totaling US $2.03 billion, were approved to support Federal and State water resource
activities.
*   Bank involvement in water resources management programs in Chile, Mexico, and Peru.
*   Formulation of the Bank's Water Resources Management Policy which has formed the foundation of the water
sector efforts in Brazil and has framed the concepts utilized for both the Bahia water law and the recently
adopted Federal Water Law.
B. Recently completed economic and sector work in water resources in Brazil, enabling the Bank to provide timely
and well-founded technical assistance to the Borrower;
C. Extensive expertise in the formation of Participatory Water User Associations in the region and worldwide; and
D. Experience in community-based poverty alleviation programs in the Brazilian Northeast, which provides the Bank
with considerable knowledge about the region, its socio-economic profile and the characteristics of the rural
population.
Block 3. Summary Project Assessments
13. Economic Assessment. (see Annex 5)
Water Resources Management Component The "minimum impact approach" was applied to evaluate the economic
feasibility of this component (Cummings et al., 1996 and Mexico Water Resources Project, 1996). This approach
determines the minimum economic impact needed to justify the project investment. It determines the minimum
impact ( increased benefits and/or decreased cost) the component must have on the relevant values within the water
sector to yield a minimum feasibility condition whereby benefits equal costs. Social costs were assumed to be
identical to economic costs.
The water resources management component would affect: a) water infrastructure investment decision-making; b) the
development of the State's irrigation potential; and c) A, O&M of existing and new water infrastructure. Annualized
costs of the water resources management component are estimated at US$ 2.5 million, so the implied value of a
(minimum impact) would be .003. This means that feasibility of the water resources management component would
require that it affects current levels of water sector-related benefits/costs by 0.3 percent. Even when applying this



Brazil                                                                                                     Page 9
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                               Project Apprisal Document
partial list of conservatively estimated benefits, the annualized estimated benefits stemming from component would be
more than US$20 million. When this value is compared with the component's annualized costs, the component's
benefit-cost ratio is greater than 8.
Infrastructure Component: Internal Economic Rates of Return
B en fi t ,o,to N.o ,.,  ,..., , i-iii -.iii ii- -i--iEi-i-i- i.i{ i. . ...... .....  ..   ....
Water SUpply  . .. 2AkO%  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
L  '  .'    '''.'.','''.'1'"'"""'"""'' 1. ,... ,.,.,,.,..,,.,.,L , ,.,.,. . '.....' " " " ' " " ' ' , ' ' ' "':"'-','.:....... 
Infrastructure Component Estimates of internal economic rates of return (IEERs) for two infrastructure sub-projects -
Ponto Novo and Tucano-, each covering two different types of interventions -irrigation and water supply systems-,
were carried out through cost-benefit analysis. Benefits from irrigation investments were calculated as the aggregate
of results of four farm models, representing the four main irrigated farm types in the region. The streams of
attributable sub-project costs, plus the streams of costs and benefits for all farm models, representing almost 400
beneficiary farms, were aggregated and discounted to obtain the net present value (NPV) of the net benefits
attributable to each sub-project. Benefits from water supply investments were estimated through the application of a
simulation model that allowed calculation of the consumer surplus derived from increased water availability at lower
unit cost
Prices reflect market values during the last quarter of 1996. Input prices were collected in the specific region of each
pilot subproject, and product prices reflect average farm gate prices for the last three years during harvest season.
Financial prices were corrected by subtracting the value added tax -or the service tax- imposed on them. The rate of
exchange of the Real was set at R$ 1.04 per US Dollar. The opportunity cost of capital used was 12%, and the time
horizon considered for all the subprojects was 25 years. Shadow prices for labor were set equal to the prevailing
minimum wage. The estimate was based on a survey of the area population which shows that the overwhelming
majority of households have incomes under two minimum wages. Joint costs for multiple purpose investments were
allocated according to the Separable Costs - Remaining Benefits (SCRB) method.
Fiscal Impact Assessment. The fiscal impact evaluation would measure the expected fiscal gains (or savings) against
the expected fiscal costs related to the project discounted over a long-term time horizon. The expected gains would be
derived from: (i) increased water resources management efficiency; (ii) decreased long-term maintenance costs; (iii)
increased life-span of infrastructure before rehabilitation due to formalized sustainable maintenance programs; (iv)
savings in the cost of publicly funded social support programs, such as the Cesta Bdsica and Carro Pipa programs;
and (v) additional revenues from: (a) the collection of bulk water users charges; and (b) increased fiscal receipts from
tax revenues stemming from a stimulated rural economy.
Water use charges would be established in relation to costs and benefits from the project. These charges would be
instituted at the time that demonstrable benefits are received by the users to support the sustainable management,
administration, operation and maintenance of the institutional and infrastructure components. It is anticipated that
these charges will encompass bulk water charges to support the State water rights administration, bulk water charges
to support the A, O&M at the Basin level and internal defined project water charges to support the A, O&M of the
water users' association and the systems for which they have responsibility. Additional "willingness to pay" analyses
would be conducted with regard to bulk water charges. Social impact and ability to pay would be evaluated and
considerations would be given to testing methodologies for partial capital recovery where deemed feasible. The
associated fiscal costs would include the government counterpart.
14. FinancialAssessment. (see Annex 5) One of the project's objectives to ensure the financial sustainability of the
SRH would be based on efficiency gains from better management, the collection of water tariffs and the
decentralization of the operation and maintenance costs for water infrastructure. As part of the project, as real cost
data is developed and as water charges and cost recovery are introduced, the financial sustainability of the SRH
would-be assessed.
15. TechnlcalAssessment .(see Document on File) The Ponto Novo dam proposal was selected as the most reliable
and cost-effective among several alternatives. These alternatives included:



Brazil                                                                                       Page 10
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                   Project Appraisal Document
(i) Small shallow wells. As this alternative would be dependent upon highly irregular rainfall, it would not have
been sufficiently reliable to service the urban population with potable water and agriculture with water for
irrigation;
(ii) Transporting waters from the Paragua9u River Basin by means of the Sao Jose do Jacuipe Dam. While this
alternative could have provided sufficient volumes of good quality water, the high costs, in terms of the
construction and maintenance associated with the 75 km canal system, were prohibitive;
(iii) Tapping ground waters. This alternative was dismissed after a State survey revealed that the subterranean waters
in the area were restricted in terms of volume and quality. The water's high saline content would have required
treatment for human consumption, and would have been undesirable for irrigation purposes; and
(iv) Alternative designs, scales and sites for dam and reservoir construction. More than three different designs were
evaluated for dam and reservoir systems. On the basis of technical and economic criteria (cost/benefit), the option
chosen was by far superior. Once it was determined that, given the physical and hydro-meteorological
characteristics of the region, a reservoir would be the most appropriate means of meeting the water demand, a
reservoir optimization model (MODSIM) was applied to identify the most efficient reservoir configuration. On
the basis of these simulations, the proposed Ponto Novo dam and reservoir was selected.
For the proposed construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure to be funded by the project, engineering, fnancial,
economic, environmental and social criteria, as clearly defined in the Project Implementation Manual and as approved
by the Bank, would be applied.
Ponto Novo Infrastructure. The construction of a dam in the area near Ponto Novo would achieve multi-sectoral
objectives by storing and managing the flows of the Itapicuru River, including runoff from the upper basins of the
Itapicuru-Mirim, the Las Pedras and the Aipim Rivers. Through this project, it would be possible to augment and
stabilize the available water supplies for human consumption and permit the establishment of an important irrigation
network. As a result of these activities, the region would become a significant pole of economic and agricultural
development in northern Bahia. This infrastructure would serve as a pilot project of local and basin water resources
management in semi-arid zones. The project would use the latest technologies regarding the optimization of water and
water infrastructure administration, operation and maintenance, and would develop the capacities of the local and
Basin users' associations.
In compliance with OP 4.37, a dam safety panel would be established for the Ponto Novo civil works to: (i) review
and approve the final engineering designs; (ii) supervise contracting ; and (iii) inspect and monitor construction
activities.
Tucano Infrastructure. The objective of this investment would to be satisfy the present and project urban and rural
water demands of the Quijinque and Cansancao counties by means of a 400-m well to tap the waters of the Tucano
sedimentary basin of the Itapicuru River Basin. The infrastructure is expected to provide water to more than 13,000
people, improve agricultural productivity, increase herd size and stimulate the local economy. Extending from the
well, there would be a 57.5 km canal with rural derivatives placed every 6 km. In addition, the investment would
establish three agricultural and cattle-raising utilization units (UAP), which are triangular-shaped common land areas
to be used to develop agricultural activities. These investments would be complemented by the delivery of technical
assistance to the farmers concerning irrigated agricultural practices and operation and management of irrigation
equipment.
As a part of this activity, Operation and Maintenance Manuals would be prepared for use in training programs and in
subsequent infrastructure activities. The pilot experience could produce important lessons regarding agricultural
technology transfer, institutional development processes and monitoring and evaluation of environmental impacts
which would be transferable to other basins within the State and to other States within Brazil.
16. InltUtionalAssessment. (see Annex 6)
. Project Oversight Inter-Institutional Council (CIRH), with representatives of the SRHSH, the Secretariat of
Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLANTEC) and the Secretariat of Agriculture, Irrigation and Agrarian
Reform (SEAGRI).



Brazil                                                                                         Page II
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                     Project Appaisal Document
*  Executing Agency: The project would be executed by SRH, using a qualified team of professionals to manage and
execute the project. The project management team (UGP), within the SRH, would include experts in water
resources management, economics, agricultural engineering, civil engineering, resettlement and social impacts,
environmental assessment, law, and finance.
*  Legal Assessment: Water resources management in Bahia is governed by Law No. 6.885 of December 5, 1995,
which designated the (SRH) of the (SRHSH) as the State's administrator of water resources. SRH's
responsibilities are to: (i) support analysis of water availability and demand; (ii) install, operate and maintain
networks of hydro-meteorological posts and a data bank; (iii) supervise the implementation of water infrastructure
civil works; (iv) control, protect and conserve water resources; (v) evaluate requests for and grant water rights,
direct policy, resolve conflicts and establish and inpose norms and standards; and (vi) develop and update the
State Plan for Water Resources .
*  Other Agency Involvement: SRH would contract with and use other State entities to implement some of the
Project's institutional and infrastructure components. With regard to Federal-designated Rivers, the SRH would
coordinate with Federal and water authorities in other States. Federal law (No. 9433 of January 8, 1997) gives the
SRH the authority for such coordination.
Institutional Analysis. (See Annex 6) The State of Bahia water resources management system is relatively simple.
Water resources management would be directed by an Inter-Institutional Council. The Water User Associations would
be representative of only the water resources users and would serve a consultative function to the Inter-Institutional
Council. The simplicity of the Bahian system would allow for the gradual development and adaptation of the system
to the realities of the State water sector.
The General Directorate of Water Resources (SRH), as decreed by Law 6855-95, is the managing institution of State
water resources. To fulfill this role and execute the State Water Resources Management Plan (PGRH), SRH will
require close coordination and collaboration with other State entities. As the SRH is a management entity, the SRH
will rely upon other entities in the contracting, implementation and supervision of civil works contained in the
PGRH's infrastructure component, consisting of the construction and rehabilitation of dams, irrigation works and
water supply infrastructure, requiring close coordination between the SRH and the respective implementing entities.
The importance and complexity of the PGRH require the establishment of a specific institutional structure. The
Decree 6,295 of March 21, 1997 specifies that: the Project Administration Unit (UGP), within the SRH, would have
clearly defined administrative responsibilities over the Project. The UGP, which would exist during project
implementation, would have special administrative and financial flexibility to allow for salaries adequate to attract and
retain quality professionals. The present structure of SRH management level is considered very suitable, needing no
substantial changes. To strengthen the staff of the SRH, special career plans and salaries levels would be applied to
attract qualified professionals. The project would contract an adequate number of well-prepared technicians.
The transition of the project preparation unit (UPP) into the UGP would occur between May and September, 1997,
with expansion of staff and office space, and the acquisition of infrastructure and computers. The SRKI, through the
PGRH, would gradually absorb the responsibilities of UGP. In the formation of the SRH, emphasis will be placed on
highly qualified professionals at the managerial level, complemented by specialized consultants, scholarship holders
and trainees. The technicians would be contracted independently, through a management company or a performance
service contract.
17. SocialAssessment.
The proposed project would be part of the Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions. The Northeast Region has the
greatest incidence of poverty in Brazil. Almost a quarter of the region's poor live in Bahia, two-thirds of which are in
the rural areas.
Access to basic infrastructure and services in the rural areas is grossly inadequate. There is only one health post for
every 4,000 rural residents (1990); 77% of the rural households lack access to proper sanitation; and 90% have limited
access to safe water (1991). The rural poor are primarily small farmers, sharecroppers and wage workers who depend
upon diverse income-generating activities and subsistence crop production (maize, beans, manioc, rice and small
livestock). The well-being and the survival of the poorest rural households in the semi-arid region are highly



Brazil                                                                                           Page 12
Bahia Water Resoures Management                                                       Project Appraisal Document
sensitive to agro-climatic conditions. In addition to the lack of reliable water supply, these small farmers lack modem
production technology and basic infrastructure to store harvests to take advantage of cyclical price fluctuations.
Consequently, family income is highly variable and there is little opportunity for savings or the betterment of
lifestyles.
Preliminary findings of the social assessment indicate that the rural population in the Ponto Novo area consists,
primarily, of small farmers and livestock producers. About 75 percent of the households earn less than the minimum
monthly wage (US $112). More than half the population is completely illiterate. With relatively little commercial or
industrial activity, the economy is agriculturally based. Most farm families subsist using family labor to grow basic
food crops. Those few families with access to the Itapicuru River produce irrigated fruits and vegetables for the local
markets. Provision of basic services in this area rank among the lowest in Bahia, with more than 79% of the
households without internal plumbing or access to treated water. (Anuario Estatistico: Bahia, Secretaria do
Planejamnento, Ciencia e Tecnologia, 1995).
Resettlement activities would be associated only in the case of the Ponto Novo works. The Bank and Borrower-
approved Resettlement Plan would offer compensation options to the effected households to ensure the maintenance
of, or improvement in their standard of living as a result of the project interventions (see Annex 8).
18. Environmental Assessment. (see Annex 8)
Environmental Category A. The State of Bahia's Engineering Company (Companhia Engenharia Rural da Bahia
(CERB), responsible for the dam construction, with its environmental team which included two environmental
specialists, an engineer and a geologist, carried out an environmental assessment based on extensive field visits and
environmental research.
Potential Environmental Impacts. During construction, it is likely that the building equipment, material and dirt fill
deposits could damage the vegetation on the river, provoking erosion and run-off. In addition, without an initial
clearing of vegetation, filling the reservoir would submerge stretches of growth, the decay of which would effect the
water quality. Earth movement and heavy construction machinery could temporarily compromise downstream water
quality by increasing turbidity and solid sedimentation. Once the Ponto Novo reservoir is filled, its 24-km shoreline
will lack the natural vegetative cover needed to contain and protect the shoreline from erosion. Finally, increased
agricultural and livestock activities and pedestrian traffic along, near and across the reservoir's protective border could
damage vegetation and accelerate erosion. Appropriate measures and precautions may be needed to replant, where
necessary, and protect the mata ciliar to prevent accelerated erosion and sedimentation.
Recommended Mitagative Measures. To support the UGP's environmental specialist, a transitory Technical
Commission for Environment Management (CTGA) would be established to oversee the dam and construction,
reservoir flooding and implementation. As part of mitigative actions include to be carried out, the project would:
a) clear plant growth in the area to be flooded. Once constructed, the project, in collaboration with the Instituto
Florestal, would implement an up to R$1.6 million program to recover the mata ciliar, the vegetative growth
critical to the integrity of the river banks and shoreline, to fully cover the reservoir's perimeter and the river banks
with local varieties of mata ciliar;
b) enter contracts with construction firms with clauses that ensure that environmental management practices,
meeting the standards of the Bank and the State of Bahia, would be followed;
designate special zones for heavy equipment and waste materials to mitigate possible damage to the shoreline; and
c) recuperate environmental damages resulting from the construction phase. The project provides for rehabilitating
or rebuilding affected roads and electrical transmission systems.
As part of the overall project, extensive environmental education programs, directed to both urban water consumers
and farmers, would be especially important, not only to the mitigation and/or prevention of any negative
environmental effects associated to the dam and the reservoir, but also to the sustainability of the region's natural
resources. Finally, CERB is conducting two studies to: (i) prepare the preliminary proposal for the establishment of a



Brazil                                                                                             Pap 13
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                        hiqteet AIp     Do_mun
regional natural reserve, the first of its kind for this ecological habitat. The report would propose the site, cost and
action plan for reserve establishment; and (ii) analyze the impact of the proposed infrastructure and water system on
the regional flora and fauna, especially those species threatened by extinction.
Water Resources Management Component. The expected environmental impacts of the Water Resources
Management Component would be to:
a) strengthen State institutions, and Basin and Local User Organizations to effectively manage water resoures in the
State of Bahia, in a financially and environmentally sustainable manner;
b) assure stakeholder involvement in water resources management and educate the public on the value of water
resources and the importance of water conservation, through rational use and control of water pollutants;
c) within the three priority river basins, establish an institutional structure to: (i) enhance and&stabilize water
supplies; (ii) manage infrastructure A, O&M; (iii) promote sound environmental approaches and water quality
standards; and (iv) encourage efficient water usage, through allocation and enforcement of water rights, conflict
mediation, tariffs and user education programs; and
d) allocate water rights which would allow better monitoring and control of water pollutants.
Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation. The State Project Preparation Team has developed an Environmental
Monitoring Plan, encompassing the area of influence of the dam and the reservoir. Under this plan, the basic
information network would be equipped with sensors to measure rainfall, water flow, sedimentation and provide early
warning of extreme conditions. The use of data loggers would permit virtually simultaneous data collection, input and
transmission.
19. Participatory Approach
Beneficiaries/      IS/CON/COL*T    IS/CON/COb: Fundamnental to the project would be the formtion an
Xcommunity groups                      |strengthening of Water User Associations to be capable of participating in
infrastructure decisi:ons and taking responsibility for infratucture A, O&M.; 
Academic             IS/CON            IS/CON. Univesities in Bahia and throughout Brazil would participate in thie
studies associated with water rights and charges as well as in the design of thleE
l                            ~~~~~~~~~~~water users education programs.    
1NGOPrivte          IS/CON/COL         IS/CON/COL: NGOs andprivate firms are expected to provide technical.-
| Interrnediary Agencies  |______....  assistance to small farrners participating in the piroject's irrgation activities
Local government      CON/CO      ................... CON/COL: Close collaboration between the water agencs in Bhia with those
________________in other States is expected.X
* Informnation sharing (IS3); Consultation (CON ); and Collaboration (COL).
..      .. ... ....
20. Suetainabies  ofpro NectObeneltts would be based on tkefollowing:                e
Under the proposed project, the SRH and the new regulatory and administrative reforms related to water Use would
create an environment conducive to efficient water use and allocation, and thus, to environmentallypsustainabl
development. The proposed institutional strengthening, technical assistance and training components would build the
necessary human resource capacity and develop an appropriate organizational structure to caiy out and over   the
proposed watr resources management activities during and after project implementation.
*   Instiutionl sustainabiSlty would be based on: (i) the legal mandate to expand the role of the SRH i wate
resources management; (ii) decentralized aticipatory management of the water rsocs and rlatie ad
infrastructure by users at the local and basin level; (iii) stronger mangerial skills at the State, municipal and usr
levels; and (iv) enhanced public awareness of water resources environmentalcissues through multi-media
information and education programns; (   a  C        (COL)
* Economic sustainability would be based on: (i) establishment of bulk water charges-to reflect the real cost of
water; (ii) Water User Associations' contribution and direct participation in infrastructure A, O&M costs; and



Brazil                                                                                           Page 14
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                      Project Appraisal Document
(iii) renewed rural economic growth due to the increased agricultural productivity stemming from greater access to
irrigation.
*   Social sustainability would be based on: (i) improvements in the standard of living in the rural sector related to
improved health and income gains; and (ii) in-depth surveys and studies of potential beneficiaries to establish a
baseline data bank.
*   Environmental sustainability would be based on: (i) rational water resources management; (ii) enhanced user
awareness of the value of water; and (iii) application of environmentally sound selection for project infrastructure
investments;
*   Financial sustainability of SRH would be based on: (i) its enhanced administrative efficiency; (ii) revenues from
the collection of water user charges; and (iii) savings realized from user A, O&M cost-sharing arrangements.
21. Critical Risks. (see fourth column of Annex 1)
Effective coordination and reconciliation of competitive water interests within the State: The risk of inter-agency
competing interests causing conflict with the mandate of the SRH could be substantial. The sector has been divided in
the past between frequently competing entities. This risk has been limited through the strong legislative mandate to
the SRH and through State Government's solid support for the effort. However, it can be expected that full
acceptance of the new structure and the concept of water rights and water charges will require a great deal of
education and time, particularly when it involves the issuance of water rights from the SRH to other State user
agencies and the payment of bulk water charges by those agencies. Experience in the State of Ceara has shown a
reluctance on the part of State user agencies to accept bulk water tariffs or to accept administration and regulation of
water use by another State agency.
Social impact mitigation and resettlement: Bank experience has shown that the risk of poor implementation of social
impact mitigation and resettlement plans in Brazil is high. While a great deal of effort has been spent in assuring a
good resettlement plan and a strong commitment has been made by the State in this regard, continued close over-sight
will be needed to successfully implement this part of the project. Evaluation of compensation packages will be
contested by stakeholders, and land valuations will be contested by both the State and land owners. This is normal in
this type of process, and care must be taken to assure fair and equitable conflict resolution to prevent inequities from
occurring or inordinate delays to the project. (see Annex 8).
Government commitment The present administration is firmly committed to the project. While it is anticipated that
this commitment will continue into the next administration, the risk is always present that a new administration could
have different priorities. However, the pressures for stable water supplies will continue to grow regardless of the
administration in power. Greater awareness by the public of its needs, reinforced by the project's public information
component, will tend to institutionalize this pressure, minimizing the impact of changes in administration.
Adequate and timely counterpartfunding: Another risk to the project's complete success would be insufficient
counterpart funding, especially for financing local irrigation distribution infrastructure. This risk would be mitigated
by the close institutional coordination, which has been established during preparation and would be strengthened
during implementation, between the SRH and the State agencies involved in the provision of on-farm technical and
financial assistance.
Appropriate agricultural support services. To fully realize the potential of increased access to irrigated water farmers
will require technical assistance. Without such assistance, it would be difficult for many farmers to rapidly make the
transition from dry to irrigated farming. The risk that appropriate support services might not be provided is being
addressed through an agreement to be reached directing resources from the Programa Produzir and other development
programs to this project's area of intervention.
Overallproject risk rating                                            Medium to Low
Non-achievement of development objectives.                             Medium to low risk
More time than expected for full achievement of development objectives  Medium risk



Brazil                                                                                      Page 15
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                  Project Appraisal Document
22. Possible ControversialAspects:
The implementation of water use charges is a new concept in this region. The payment of public agency providers of
bulk water charges to the Basin agency and the SRH may generate internal controversy. In addition, the requirement
that State water providers obtain a water right from the SRH for the use of previously developed water supplies may
be controversial.
Involuntary resettlement associated with the Ponto Novo works could result in controversy with regard to land
valuation, compensation packages and fairness. Preliminary estimates indicate that the Ponto Novo construction
would partially or completely affect some 200 households, representing about 900 affected inhabitants. Of these, it is
estimated about 100 families would need to be resettled. The affected municipalities are among the State's poorest,
receiving negligible public services. The State has initiated contact with the affected population. Among the affected
population, while there is concern, there is also enthusiasm for the project's objective with respect to increased local
water supplies and appears to be little resistance to the project. In compliance with the Bank's guidelines, the
Borrower, based on its study assessing the extent of the potential social and economic impact, developed the
Resettlement and Social Compensation Plan. The Plan, which includes equitable and equivalent compensation options
for the affected families, has been approved by the Bank and the Borrower and fully agreed upon at negotiations.
Block 4. Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions
Standard Conditions, including the
(i) Establishment of the Inter-Institutional Council (CIRH);
(ii) Signed agreements with UGP and CERB, and EMBASA;
(iii) the Annual Operating Plan (AOP) for the first year of Project implementation would be furnished to
the Bank, and;
(iv) Borrower must obtain all necessary Installation Licenses and Permits, including those issued by the
Environmental Council through CRA, for the project's first year of construction, including dam,
housing and irrigation construction.
24. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements database.]
A condition for disbursements would be the approval by the Bank of the Sub-projects.
Block 5. Compliance with Bank Policies
_ This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
In compliance with Bank guidelines and policies regarding Bank-financed dam construction (OP 4.37), a Dam
Safety Panel has been established to approve the final engineering designs, supervise contracting, and inspect
construction activities.
'L' AAaAJ
Task Manager:                                              Acting Country Director:



Brazil
Bahia Water Resources Management                                                                                      Project Appraisal Document
ANNEXES



Brazil
Bahia Water Resources Management                                       Project Appraisal Document'
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
TABLE OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1       Project Design Summary
ANNEX 2       Detailed Project Description
ANNEX 3       Cost And Financing Summary
ANNEX 4       Estimated Project Costs
ANNEX 5       Economic and Financial Analysis Summary
ANNEX 6       Project Institutional Arrangements, Monitoring and Evaluation
ANNEX 7       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ANNEX 8       Environmental Assessment and Resettlement Plan
ANNEX 9       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
ANNEX 10    Documents in the Project File
ANNEX 11    Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
ANNEX 12    Brazil at a Glance



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        Page 1S
Country: BrazeI                                                                   Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Annex 1
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                       Key Perfonrance                Monitoring              Major Assumptions
Indicators
{                                                       =                   gk 0 ggOb                    .. . . .-.     ..    . .
i.$$6lo.Bms<vo".h'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:' '- X.X:i:S  ;  '
..S,   ;                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .....
,~~~~~~~~~~~A                    ,L Pi,,T O                        .  w;g ,L  ijS- .................. i.
;Sfiegi      c-, W*i. .
-ncourage environ          ntaly           I,- the. p,o    t ,,,.a>           U P U,t                       s.     rt h. ,,   .. ...
sustainable  ...eveopment..  ..by  increase the shre of                ..t        . of    .. wa   ie
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...            ,  .   . :  .   .  :w-.......   
....''X'+ ..i..'..
--~~~~~~~.   +. -..   . .'. . '   -:.'.. '' ,''. .   -  -   '"".'. .    .   ...
.  aaeet o   i sati1  thej wate  supl  (du ing                            '                        is; sufiiet
F          ,                                     . .- 
X    X_
completiolt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tl
AMev~~ate rural poverty through  In the A.ea ...Dir.c..            .. ...... .. ...                  r         -- Xd
meresin  rea  inomeand            r~et Thervntin~                 & nomc             adinitraion  re  oun
accessto waer andsanittion       ihreas  relicm             fthDt                ~       iuht   nueaeut
for the poor rural liouseholds~~~~~~  poor rural housebobi~~~ by   .  .     and sustainable ..projec...
5%  two years after start of        *~~~~~~~~~~~. ......m...at.on.
operuih mndyl%
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~   p r, j e c  c o n l t   _ _ _ _ _    _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _
Pn4eet Dev~~~~~Jopment Objectives.1rQ
f'f W.'a  U.S.~ ~~
im roeaces  o  uaiy~               nceaeinpecntg  o                 U EUnt               hroutin   fpatitatW
sutanalean   sabeW      atrh.eod,n  h    rjc                                                  aagmn    ehnss



Project Appraisal Document Page 19
Country: Bmzil Bahia Water Resouroes Management Project
..
.
.
...  11I.......
.1 ............ --...- .... .. ..:: .. ..  .,.-::: :: :.... --- : -" ; - ': : :::::: :: ::::.: ':': - - - -.... ..'............
.1 .....I.........--..
... ... -..... I..., ...... .... .... I.. .... I------ -- .... .I....,;:::::..::::.:::::::::'::: X.: ": :;::;::::::;:::;::%:::: X:: .F. ..,
-...  ':' :,::::::::::::::::::.::::::.:.:.:: : : ': ... .. ...
._... .1 ..... - ..: ::::: I..: I , I
...... .. .. . .-.. . ..: : :.::..::. ..,,
:        :   :        .    .        _          :':::X_                      ..:;X ::::-:::::::                   -     .                         ...            ....                                                         .:.::::::::::::::::. .".........,....'                         '. ::..:::!::::::::::.:                  :       :    '.,'                                                       '            -., ", .:  ::   . - ':i:.,:iiili  ..     ... I.... I. I.. I. .......... I I.....
:::::::::::::::::: II I I . . 1.4%.4.............". .-,...,.-...::: :::::::::::::::-::-:; ,-...:,:,.::: :.-................,......."..:.'.',.:,.,..,..,.............,.......,:.:.7 ... I---_ I - :i: ::` -_ .. - . -.,
....-.1111_11_1111.1111- .........I..........I': ,... - -........ ,:::: ...., .... I...-.. --.. -.- ...
. . . .. . . . . .". .: :   :;:,    : ::::::::X ::::: :::::::::::::: :::v :::::z:v::::::::::::::                                            ,        -    %".,...,%   ...... .  .. .. , .........'..... ,I . ...                                                                                                                                                                    :.-    :   -     -                                                  ..    . .-, . .,   . . .. . . . . . ... ... . ... . . 
, .:::::::::::::::::::::::, : :: :: '::.. . .I.... . . . . .I. . . . . . . . . .,,.'. ." . W .,,,,,
.:: .....b...,.,,,,.. I. . . . . .I..... ... . I I. I. . . . .,. . . . . . ..........".". . . . . . . . ... ...'..... .. . . .  . I.. ... .... . . . ........-.. ':
.:::,,, ,,,,, , ,,,,--,,, -- , "- '. .. . .:.:.:,:r:.:,:,:.:.: .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . .I-:-:: : : : :!: ::: : :. ., . . . . . ...... ..................
.:.: ::-,:, ,. .. .% ... . ... . . . . .I.. . . . . . . .,., ,%". . . . . . . ................. , . ... . , . ........ ,.,...,. , . :::::: : ::: : :: :.:.: :: : : : ::-:..
,
. . . .. . ,. . .:.:.,.: . . . .:.:.... . . .:. .:,:.::::,.
.. . . . . . .:.::. :::::::::::::::::::::::-.. ..: :: : :.: ::-... ....I.. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . ... . ,...........', .. ..,,.........,., .. . . .. . . . ..... ............%.,.,..,...............,
...... -1 ..... .. ... ...I-: %- - ..::;:: : w ; :: ::. : :,,:.: :: .,",,:.:. .,
.-.. . . .,. ..... .....'.........,
-.II. . . .I.. ......I..-:;. ; ::.::,-.!.: : ; :...".. ..'... :ii:ii::] i::,
:..:::.."..........."....... '.......'...'. ,:. .: .... .... ......'........
:: . . ....  . . .:: : : : -::;::::::;::::::,;:;::.: . . . . . . .. . .-1 ... .. . .. ...... .. :. ::. . ::. ..,-.i...........II. . . . . .I.. . . . .I... . ...,...,............,..".,.......,.........,.,
II-::::-:: :: :: .:: : :::,.:i:,::: ::i:,:.*:::. ,*]..:::...-.:.:.:.. .: ,: :;:;::::;::. ;X;:: :::: ::::!::::: %::::X: :-. .': : : '..::::::::%:::::::::::.,::;;::::;::::: : : :a...........,.... . 1-1
._'._... ... . ....'.........'.. ::::::X::::-:,:;;:: ::::::::::: :::::::X::::::: : .: .:.:.,::::: .::i:::.,.::!:::i::::::..:::::.. :, : :: :::iiiliiii ii:Ix**:::::::...-.1.1 ................. 1: .:-::-I:. :.. -;' ". .-- - ..........
:::::::: .. .. . . . ..: .:. .. . .:. :I,... ... .-%. ,. . :.:.: ..
...... ::::: ,..............,..1- , ,. d. ..:.". .,. .: .. .....:-.. ::.:::. :::::.... .... I .F., ,......,,.. .......,................."..........'. .
.-  : w: . .:,.. -...:-:- ::::.'%;.' ,,, ::: ::. . -...]:: ::...: j::::: : :::] ;:::: d :.. .,.. ,;;:;:::: , :':': "::'. . ::::::: :' ; ::: :.. :.: w a : : ..: : :a
,.-.......I.:. .: .::::::: ; ::..... .. ......... :, . . ..
..I...---,:. ":,:.: .:.,:,.: .. . . .... :: '.. . .......'......., ....... ......
..--.........-.-.,. :.: :.: :: ': :I.. .. I.I............... -, ..... .. , . . . -.., .............
.:]j:::.::.,.::;: ::::.....-.II..........  I .... - -':-,,..I---. .1 . .% ............. ....... . . .I...... ..... .... ........
.:..:.i::...:"'...,:i:l]'.. :]::::..%a:.F:, :: : , :::;;::::w::..; :;:
i:::::;:i]::]....:: .::a:
..:::j:j:j:j: ::::i::- ::*i::ia:: . . . .I. I-..I. . . .I. . . .I
,Si w.:.:.x:.:.: . ........ .:...:-.. ......-I.......
:j:: .]:i . . ....... .::::,- ..::.,: ..... .........,..'......
.'...'......... ....... ..."......'.... ....
..........'. .. . ....'.......'.....'..
.ional..1. %..-....... '. ::.", ,:: , A:
..-..-.._,':,:.:.:.:.:.::: ft..:-...,.,::x::.:"-.Mm. - ..'.....
....... 11 ....-:.
...... .:.:..: ........I.............. ... ... :.:..........:::;:i:::i:i:iii:]:iiii ii:ilii]:-
-.. ..................... -... i,:
.. ..,:.:.:,:.:: ..., ... :
F-::-:-::::::::.
I............, ,."%::::::::: Iiik ....... :, ...
F. ..., ,.
.. ..det ....
I. .... , .n io If i6..13. .............
,V. ... :: ...-.:.:: ....,........, ..'.........,......F.  ..................::: FF . ........
...... Or- '::.:-':w::::: I. -...-:::x:;:::;::: :::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::.:...::.::..:: , , , ,::::-:--.-: .. .......Y'.....'... I......
... ... 1, - ...._ ::::. :; .. ...::::;::: .::::::: .:::..:I..........4'... -.:.:,;.:,.'.............," .... ...... ...
........ .-:X .':':':':.. .::::::::,:. ...... I. ...... I. .. 11%.,:. .: x: ::,: .... I I... I I....I............... :;.,..".... i.,.:.........................i..t
I.,. : V..-.,.,.i:,:::..,... .. ::::p::::p::::-,.., ..........Wi ..................................
.......... ..-.i.%. -....'...%.................. :...,
...... ....................I........
... ........... ....................... ... ....... ......"..".11.
........I'-d:.;:::':':::;::':':::%::'.:::.".,.- ......,.:.,::,..::::.::.:::,:::.:,:,:.:,..
.....-.Y.F. .I &, ."....,....,..
.... q..,
'.::...-- , " ..
::-":::: :,::::::::::::::::::::X: .......:... .;.,...---.'...-..-'.- .. - ..... ..
-.0 Und 1:.M.:::::::: :.: -.:::.:......... .-.....,.
.......... ....... --11 . .... .:.:.:::.,.: J.' ...;V.:.::.,::::::: ....:...:.:.:.:..,: .:..: ........ ..
........... -  ...- ,-.. ................. .: -:::::::- .........-.......
..............:;:::.:.::::::;:;::::i..,.,::] ::] j:, . I..-::: .... wd .. :.... .... I _: ... I. ... I.. ...... .. . ., ,.
: ':-:-: - -, - - , ..  . ... . I.  ": -, ,-,..
'............'........... f.:..,..,. 1'...... ,%.
::;-.6 ........... '' "',, "" ..'..".'...
:- .:-.............. . -1 ... ::m:..:::::::: :: ..:..:::::::::::!::]::::::::::::::::::::'..;, -..................,
..q": :. , ., , , ,
..:... .........., '.........w...d, :............ _ - _ .:-::.. ... . ... .....,
... ..;:::::::...::::;:::..:::::];:;:j: :j;$k:.q.: ........'.........
............- ...................... - - r. :.: ,V.
,.. .1t...... .....': .'.."....,".."... . .. ............I................ - - -......,...
......  ..... ......:.:.:.::.::.:: ::.:::::-:: :- ......-........ - .. .. ..... ........,....".,...,..........
I:Wkw
:..............'.......'......: :: : :. :-.'-..:.:.:.:,:.:,:.:.:.:,:.:.::.:.:.:.:.: ... , I. I.I... , -. .X:;:::::::::::::::, .: ', : X::::::.::: - *:i]i .'.,'i'..]:::ii:ii:iiiiii:::'.
..... ........ ..............%,%.:..:.....:. ..:::: -..... ..,...
... ...............:xw--::::::::,:::-:,::
... :::::;: .......I.........I.........I:.:.:::.:.:.:. ...-.: ..... :,:. I.:,:: ...:: ...... _.,..... Ai..
.....I.................. .... .1 .:1 ........ %.::..:::,.: " :.:.:::::.:r:::;:::::: .. .. - -, ,..-..-.,..::,
... ................: ........I........... .. ... I...... .:,:::::::::::::::::::::::..,.:,W.I '. ff:::::::j::::j ix:;:j:
.. ppq;q ,q:-:qq:: :XXX...... ... ,....... , i .--
-...........%.......................... - :.::...,.,:::::::::::::::::::::::..:::-.::::,::::: .. ............... . I I , _'I
..v--- I '. ... .......I.... . --- - -.:::,;.
..-.... . ......,........,......., ,'.. I... .. ... I...".., . I................... ........ - ..::.::.:....:::..:.:::,!:!,..I.
... ... .... I.,-.-, ... ....... .... ......,....................................'.,....,.'....... ...'........, :.... .1
..... ............-.1............ ..............I................. . ... ... ...I
...I. ............. ::::,.,.,...-i...,']i",.,:j::....'..:..::::%::': ........,........, ...I, ,.... 1. I. ... -'..
..q. ... .. ..,.-.,,,.
. .."on' .: .. .... ..., Tlipgw.  1.2c: .......
.I: ::.d .: -a................ ... . ....... . . I : : ::::::::::::::::::::::.:::.:::::.:.::w:: :::: : :: -:;X-:X::::: :::
.Ir......................._....:.: ... :::: :.;.::::.:.;::: :w::::::::.
,I . W,.II. ... .::;;::;;:::::;::::::
.. :. . I..." . "...;.. . ... ' ' % " ' ' ' '': %&:A&]:;
.... ::: :,::::..:..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ..I-.. ,.. ..... :.::: :.;.>: ::::: j:::. - -:,>::-:::wx-::.. I.. ................ : :: ::,:: .::.:::,:::,,, "..." ......"'.....,
...... .. ..... I ...I..............-......... .. ,..:::-::- '::-:::::::.:,.:,:::::.. X. :X_.............. ...-V:,.............................
:.:. ...................."......"..,.,......,..,........'...'...... :.... .. ...:... ... .. ..,.:..:. ..............................
...................... :::]::l::i:::::ii: i:ili:i::i::::ii]::::i:::.,-I.. _ "," . .- ::::::: ..., "'..%."'....'......... .. ...... ... ......I........... I., ......V.
1: .... :: ........'.., b,'. -- -.. . ....::..:..: .....,...: ... .......... -...,-......,..... ... .:.,:.:%. -... ....,............, ., ...._::: %p:-X-%:::-::x: a::' ...... .. '..'..........,
, .............. ... .. ..... ..... I I...I... ......... . :;:: ..... :j::j: - . "., :..'. .., '.' ." j:::':!:j:j:j
r........ I.................., ................ .. , ,.......,., ... .......,....I.... ........ I------ ... ....
::::: ::: :: :x::::..:::.:.: :: :: :: .:.:.::-.;.-:. . ...I .: : : - : :::. .:-.:::: ..::: ` :.:.: ... x 1. .....I......I. I .....
- ..... I :: ;::: : :::::::::::::: sx, ,::::,,:::, ::..:: . . . . .. ., ,::::: .::., :.::..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.- -:::-:::::-:-: ::: X..: -::
.-.::,: ',:.:: ...'.... ...............................::.--::::!::.- -...............................,."............,..... ,........... .
I.::;:::::::,:,::,::,::: ........ 11 ... I . .. - :2..':.:.::,: ;, :: :: .. ,.. .,:.r..
.:... :-::: ,: .... F: :... .: .,......'..,.....,.........,............,.......... .....'... ........ I.,
..... .., .I.. .........'...., .........-:::::::::%.::...-.:,:,:.:,..:.:,.:::::::::::..::::::::.:::::::. ;: .::: . ..
...._.......... .. .:..: ,:::.:.:.. .... - .. - ...S- i i.:  :.
I.. ... ... .. 1. .. .:.. . . ''.. ..--::..
....-........ .. ::,-.. 1. .....,.d... I............. : ,....... .....; ,..:: .: ". .. - :: ::::::. .:.:.:.::.:.".::.:.:...,:.:.:,...:....:: .4.
I... I.::::: ,. . :; .:::::: :: '; ..... .. .1. ...,.. - ..:::::::. :: .. ,::i:.,.: iW'J ...
..... .. .. .............,... . ..
. ., .. ..
.. ... ..... .1 -... .': : :,- h.
'.:->:.:.:I:.:"I:.>>>:r , W ..
:::>j>::: :::,: ::::::w:X::::: :: : :::::::: ::.::. ..............., ,-,_ ............. ..... I.---.. ,:::: ...................... .:-,....)..,-:::::::-::
.: .... .: -.: ... ................ :, ":,: : :::: . .,..........."...,...."........"%,i-..,....iiii::.:..::::.,:::::.,.:i:.:%: : :' .... :.:, :.:::::::::.:.:,:.:.::.:.:.:.:.: ....I......... "... ....I............... ..
.............. I . I .... I.......I....... ....................... ::->:::::::::,
..... I .I --- ;k ., : ';::, :.: ...-.... ..'............
......I.....-...... .. ............... .......,,,"' -,.....I......II....
, - "'. ",-...............
...:. . ..-"",,",,,- , --_,,,::: . " ,.. ,....... " ....
-, -," -,
-': . ...........
M.....,...,......
... .. ..G.P. ................'...
-             -..                                                                                                  . .:!11..,    ..                                                                                                     : I.,   :::- -.C                                                ." ,         I     11I
...::::::::; : , ....., - ',.:,->>.:.;:a:.: ... v:...."... W,'iii.
.:.... .... -.. .:: Wdl:MWM'. '' '.').1 :Io.
IR.'es.o. '. .M". , , " "' " t' ,St-'a fttl .1 ....  .1-1
-A. P-....-.V. ..v i:.. . I......:.": ......
..'i 12nagemen, *::.ui V.0... .....
. ...!., -,:i::-.,:.,!::!:;: .E.
....... ...... ....-.... I.,.,:::::: .. . ."P ..... I... I ...I
:--- -.,. .w..-.. ..,. . ,. .:;::::,........,'......... :: ... '.  ... . :...... :::-;'-'-;....,....-..,.., ......., I..... I...
.. ."- --- ...... ............... ....''--
%............... - - ..... _:::::::::::::: i6g::::::::::.. - I... .... .i ;::iiii]: --A. .I... ........... :: :........................I... I . - ........
- .. I....... ... . . ............................... . . .............
,:::,... ......... . ... .. ...I.............................. . .....I... .........,
.. ... .,_.: . ::::.. I.... 1. VA:. , -.'..,.i:::,::: .::;:.:: ..v i;..,......
.:::: ... , - .:...:::: x: :::,"-............- ".....,
-I...... ....
.:.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .                                                                               .......
..... .:::r::::::::::::w -:: ': - " - ... -:X ......... .. 't" W." .."'.... , "'.,
.
....-
.1) ....: :A.."VI-4WA O'... .. - ,-- ---:::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::,:::: 00160''nI
............
...-I :.,i... "',
-.E:  ., ::: di: ... 1.1- ........... ......... I I... ....'.."..I.
..,1, pq-_ .. :::::M.."it ..
...Y.. ...P0. t. . I
......... .....,.::":::::::::.i:::::::::::::.:::::::::::..::::::::::::.:''..........:::::::;:::. :::::::.::::::::...'-,-":..:,%.:.:.". - -I........
..... . .:.,..".;,:...i..:..--:.....A.,i.i.iliii":i]iii:ii:::::::..'........... ........ .::::i, ::,.i'i.l.i,.,.iiii]]iiiiii::::.::::.,:::
.I.. . ............. . ..,...,:.>:,>>:-:-:w:>,:,-- ". -'.'.....'.'.'.'":x::::::: ... 11
:X..... .. ....I......I........-...I
.....:... ..--.... ............. ......... I...
... ........... -:::::]::::::::::..':::j::.. ..
.. .-Vml..i .. -.I. -I.........
..-...
I.,...:,:I...
...... ..;,::::,::::j::x ::::::::::: ....
.... I.......
,::::::.:::::::,..:::::;.:.:.!...:.;.:.:.:,.! - ..............................."::::- X. -:_ A' ""'
,,",:,:,:,:,:", , ,-
.I-
,I.
.... " ":: "' " ''
:. -.-Iin,bdift, ............ .. ..00.1c: :0:---*OOd ..........
.........
.....                                                                                        .W                        .
:. -&ii;i---.i.. . '' . f:::::,::
::..
.                      .
....::s ,, .. ...:,Q
..................... ...,.. Yi
..... :: i '::i..:: "'':.;., ->,:::>>.:::::-Xw:::::': ,::,!F. ':....'. .. ':::::::':::> :. ": ... :,:::::;::;::: '' ...-
1. -........,>:.:....Y, . . .... 2'......................- .1 . ,.''.....::::: :.:
q.,.,..,.,., ...... -d - .: .11 .... .......I.-..._....... .. . .... ..........".....:.:.:.:,:.:,:...:.::...::::::::.;,:..%.,.a - .,: .... . .... ..."
. ..-. . . -......, ... ::::: -.. . .......... .... ......
.... ftst=.... I. . . i ............. '' .. - . .. .... .... -.. ........... -............... ... ......-.............. ,--- ....I... _............. .:...................'........,............... . ......
..0. 0 .. ... . . ......., ... I. I.....
-I.:,. :,:.::: - --:..-,-:,-:::::: :::.:::::.:::..:.:.:::::::....I .......... ......:,.,:...".>-,-
-_.. ....:..:.:,: .......:.:......:.:.:.:.:.:..:.: - -... .....
--..... .X.: . .... ....., .: .:::.: - '.-I.. 1. --...... ..
i-ad'' .,c,....-.1- -.I.,.: ... .. ...... .I.. . ... ...  .. -''..
... ... ....... I.... ..... ..... .......... ... .... ... .. -..... .....I-.....
.. ... I... .", "' I.... .......... .. ..._
..... ,:>::: ---IF;::>::n .-.-..,..... ....... ...IX: X ::::.: :: ,-..-.X : ::.:.::: :,:::::: e:::ji:!::-;-;:::::;;;::::::::::::::::: : -.........
. ::::--:;::::::::::::::i: ........ - -...... .: . ....
..... ....I_:::::::-:: '.....................-...... . .:.:..-.: .. ,_x.x,.:.:.:..'':.:.:, ,:.:.:.:,:.:..::: : : .. X : ........... .....,
........_.- I. ... '' ......... --- ........ _ -1 .:::.:::::: ,,.....- ...... ...I...... .... I.. . ...... ... . . . .- ...
. . 1. .. ..1.1 .............................-.:, ....... I .....
:.. .... _ :::..:: ::: ::-.. %..... .I.I....- ........I..... ... . . 1, ....::%::,::: .:.:.:.:., : .1............
. , ...........'.::X: ... .. ...... .. ,:: ,:,:: . %.... .. . :::::::..
.. %:::: ,::".,%:: :..:: -:::::: ::::":::-:-::%-:::,: :,.,.:,.:::,., .::::::::..:::, ........... .... .............'...,
.I..:% ..,_ .,:.: :. :. '-:'.ii..
...-.>:-X:. '. .: : - :, ::,." ...: :..,.:::.:. ..,.
... _-- .. ..:.:. .::-:-: % ......'...... ...... .:> .:... , _. ........, .... .:.: ........ :X . .. I. ... . ...... ... I. I........Y..;i i..... I....
. . -....-........................ :: I %:::::::::::......%.,.,...
......I... 1. ... . :X." XX .. .. - ... .::. . .--. . ....
............... , , "-",:::: . .. .:" - " -:, :::: ::I..,. . .-
I............ . .% . .--..:. ".:' .:.::. ': :,:-, ,. ":-1 ... .....
..I---. ..-: :-,-;:.......I... ..... -....... .. '.
...I..::..i...:..:.'::i,.:..':iii..]ii ::: ;::::: iili]]!;q ..-.,-.,-...... ........ I. I......
.... ::::,:..:::   :..::::: .::::::: -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "        -    :'                              ...::::..::::::::::'.-.]:::::::::; .::::::,::  ::;    :::::::::X 
,
..-...........,-, .............I... I I.......... I.:::, ............ ::::::;.:::::- ....... .I - -,::' :::.;:::::,::::
. % ..... V.............. ............ _, ....-..... : .: . ::::::: X.. -::::::::'::::::::::: :::::.... ::.:, "....'... .. .....
............. %.......... .. ::,: :::
.. th :-... .:: '-:::::::::::::::::: ..... I...."%,.....".,.,.............., ... ... , - ,.......
.-- I::,.. ::%::::%:"::::::::::::::::: ..... ....::::::.: -..,...... .. .. .,::.,..,... .'...'...'......''.........
.. .... . ............ :,:.:.:.:..: ... :.:.:....:..:.,:.::::::::::::::::,.:::. .: ---.--... ...................... .I.... ...... ..::: .... .'...................
.. .......... . .......... ..... ..........I....I... I. .............. .... .::::::,:.:, .._........
-v>- >-::::,:::::::.:::.. '' ......... "' ::::::::%::::::%::::%:::::::::::::::::::::.:::: "' ....
.. ::...:. -.,....,....:::;::::::. .::::::::., ...::::.::..... .............'..
.. :: -.-:::.::. . .... .. .::::.::::::::" :::.:::: .."...:.:,:.....:,:::,::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::... ... ... 2......... ......
-.....:.... ........-I.. .....--...I......... ::.:: " - . :: %.:: %::: ,..:::,:::::,:: .: .:.:.,::.:,:..-.....
... .......I. . ...............I....._........ .............. , "-
.. :,%::::::::%::::x  . :::..,....-:..-:...;., .: ...: -, .:::: :: : , : ::::: -;::::::::::::::::: - - - , - - - -.:.. - :::::;:::.::::
.:::::::.::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:"..::::::.::::::::::::: :: .:, :.:,::::;:::::.:...:::...:.:.:..::.:. , ,:.. . .... . ...
.. . . ..,,.. ... ......I. ..........
... .. ...... .,: :::: % :: .::.::::::.::-:-::-:::-::-::-::::::::::;.: :w ... :::,:. ..
--., .:::.,:" :..-........ : .. -":::, '' -_ ...
..,..-:.: - ::::::: ->:..%,:.:.:.:.%.-.:.>:.:.:: ,:....:.::...: .. -, ........... .............................."... ....I.................... ....'..'. .4........., ..:. I. ....
..: . ::-.. . . ..... - - . .::.,.:.:... .....
-,pXq::::": .. ..... - . -.............:.:.:.:.:.:.:,:.::.:.:.:: ........ ::: %..":: .::::::. I...I....I...I....
..-.::::.::: .                                                                                                                                                                          ..            -:::     "-.                                                                                        .            ......I.........................   .::                                                                                                                          :X::X."                  %.
.::.: ::q:::::::: :.::: ................. ... ......  .::.:.:.::.:.:,.::.::,..:.:..:.:.::::::::::.:.:.:.::::::- ..... I. .." - -, ...
%:::::. ... :%::":::::::.:. :::::,..:.:.:.:.:..:.,::::.:...,:.:- .: . . ....-....
.. ...... : .-x::::..: ., ..::.. . ... ... %. .% ................... -.. .. - ..:.:::.: ;....
1. .................. ............. . I .-:::.:,:.:: ..
... .,...,.................'.................,....,.....:. 4.....".......y....."y .. .... ,:X.>,.-,::,:,:: . .... .. ... ...... ... :. %..::::>%!::::r:::;: .. .,,........
.... ..... - -,
,..... -.. ....I...I...
.. -1 .... ........ ,:.:,::,-.:::.% ........ ::.;::.......::::....:i:....i..]... , , , " " , ", .. '..I..... .. .. .. ........... .. .......'.....".
............... .:: :::::::%,:::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::!::::::... . I..:.:.:,: -.
:....................._-
........_...........
................ ... ::->>:::X:>'
..._................... I., - .. .. .p......,I..
...-..... ., i--'-.:.--,ii , .. . .-...:Ivi,.i-
........... .... ........:
.. .........I..... ., ,:::: %:::%I....I... ...... ....... d.: ...... I. ......... ::::: . 7161- Mal
..... ........................-.... -Xe.....Xv......... ............... %., ......................,.........".....,..,.,.-..:.;:::.:- ,::, ..,. .. .... ..
,...-... .. ......... ......:......'..,', . ..... ......................,.,..............I . ..... .. I. .... . ........ . .....I................ ...
.. ...-.-..-...''.,..............,.........,. - .... ......
... W'.',...._.,.:::::.:::::::.::::":.":.::, '. ,...:.,:: ... ::% ... : ,"" -.,.-.,:.-.--..-:,> ,:. ............
I......I...... . .. ...... .. ;::.... ... ... .. ... .... ... ..............'., ... I -",-::,:,,.,-:-:,,-.,,,-: ... .: .
...... ..... ..... .: .. ..'..... ......... . ......-. "....."....-
-... " .. , ".", " "" "...., .:.-%, ': _,... _ ....
,,
,-... .:  -. I- .: ::....,:..,. ...::,:. ..
.....1.-.. .:.:.:- - F: ...b:: O:.::::..-........
, :::,:,:,::::,:::.::,::: I. ..i....-....'.'ii.'-'.-.....!...'.-.':.'...'; '..-W :
.-_X:::%..:: ;,.-;":...;..-x.: .. .. -...............-
,; : ;, ..::.: - - - .. ..- .....I. .. ... .... ':::::::::%::::,:::%::::,- ::.:::: ...
-Xxx - X. -::.,:-:::-. .................. ... ...I.. .. ---...........
:.:.:.:.:,% ::.::::::::::::::::..::::::::::;:::.::::.:.:.::.,... ....... ..-
.................-........ I. ...I........ ::->'::::,:,,,,:.:. - :: %:::::,:.......................... .. ::::::::..I._-.,
... ................................:,:.".: .....:.... :.:.:. %:::.:: ... ;.:.: ......... ... I:::::: >::::-::>::::-X::: .. IX: ..X. . ....... ::::::::::: ::::: .%: :: . .... .......I. ....: : ,:,'......". ... ... -:>-::::::::-,::::::::-, .-:::->:..'..."' "" .." ...... ................
. . ........ .:: . ..:::::,:::;:::>:::::::: " ,,............. ... ..........I.....I........... : :-., . . . %..............'...I.......I.... 1. - I....I....... .. wX-X ....... ... I...... _.....
,..........-I.......... .. Z.:.a....... .... :. - - - :...:.. -.% "'-,., .w. .."... ... ,..'................ -..-,.-.-;::: -.............
.....--'. ". .. . ,.::: b ,.... -.->.:- .> -: .. . I... - I..
.. .. -e --'....
....  -:- ::..--:... -''....,.
-.1.1-w-:.. : :;::::... ..
:"-.:"::: -,-`.... .....:.X.- ::::I X,. - "::'-.'- .......................q...'... .. . .....,.I.,
.- ------, "....-...........-
I-::::% ::., '..:.]: . .:q.,:..::, ......'.... .........
..;.. :.;., ::: .%. ;-:" ," ,":
, :::: ::
.::::,:.....: ;.:> :::.: % :... ...-: :-:...*....-:.:::::..-.:.:: :: - '..., ..... -..........
.... ", - -.::x :::..::.:::..-'::::..-',:::..-'.:.-'.::::.--.... ...... ........... .. .... ..... ,,,........:
_'.. . ,.... ..... ... ",..............,.........::::::::::: .... .. .......... . ..
... . I.. ..... . X.,...I... ........".:,:...., ..... ....., ......... ::::,:::::::::::,:j;::::i : ."...,........
i : :; ... ... .... . ...,:.:..............
-.::,:]::: .... :. :,:.::.: ........"
........ :.. I. :::x,::::: ,::. , ,:::: .. .,:,::::.,:::: :::::: -,
.. .. . ...:: - :::..:::%X,..,.>-;::::.-,:::;:::::: m.::..,:::::;.: .............'.
. :. :. :.: :.---- -:-- -...-.......-:.: :......
.:.. ::: .::: :::: - -:-1 .. ........F....
... .... .:. : ..:.::::::.. .:,::,:::::..::: ,.::-:,::-:-qw:q::w: .:,:.....::::::::::j:: ...... . '-.--.-'. , ","
I.::.:.:.:.:.:.:,..... ... -....IP...
, ::: ::::::: .::::::. ::;::..::::: ...:.:;. . . .........
.,.,:.,. :, ,:..>:.:,:-.,.'..'.".",-.. ... ....."..b....
.-.. , -. -::: .: : .::::.. .. : :::::: -:,;'::::::::::: :::::::. :::::::, ..."....'.Y...
....: ... 1: :::,.:::::::,: .:: - -..,::::: ::::::::':::;:.--::-:..-:" --:.: ..... ................
........--, .... :,. %: .... - ,X .:.% : %:::::: ::: ::: ....... .:: . ... .. ':
... I. ,.. .....', .. ..... . ..............." ....... .....'..., ::::: - -",..... ......... ji.I.... ...
................. .. %.. I...................................... ........... .. I .. I............. .. ... . I...:..X. ..  ...
..... ....................M.,.....,.........,.........,...... ..... -.-..% ........ ........'.. .:.. -- ..... . .... .......,. ., .%.,.,...,.
.... :..:: ....I.-l'..... .. -...... - . ....... .:::...:.:" ,:... W ......F....
% ::: :: .,:,_%".>:,,...w: .......,.. ... .1. ::::>,:...:: .....
:-.::!::>;::;::::>- ............ .-I."......::.::::::::::::::::::: ..:-60 ......'.............
:. :: .-.... .::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::- -.
,- , -... :.:: , -.,..... . -......:: :: :...:..:..::., :: :': : ............
.: :.......... . .... ........'....'..'....", .. ., ".. ........ . .......... %......." ........ 1...'. ,:::: .. :' ::.::; '-;-:::::-::>: .....%..... .. . ....
.......... .%........-::::::::::::::::::::::::- :"". ".."'. ,.' - - - "V
. :W. r, X.::::-..::::%.X. .. .... . . .... ......,.............., .........
...::-::.I:;:::::::::;.. - .........,....:..]...:]:]:,:.:.: .:.:,:.:..:: ..::::::::::::::I.:::::::. ........::::,% :..,:,...:,: ....'.....,'... .Y:.::: :::::::.:::,X.:...
... ... I -0. .. :: > , ... .- .: ::: ..... :::::.. I....... ...  I I ..
..- ......... __ ........ .. .: , -, ,::.::: ; ::::-::::: :: . . .:, :: ::::: ::::...............-::ii]]i::]-.I..
::.. . ... -::.:.::, - ::;::::;: j:,.,:., . " ,'. ..' ."...::...............,.. .............-::.:::.:.
:.::: ..:::::: i::: . :-...: .....'... .. . ...... ... I.... ....
:%:::::.... ..:,::: : :..'.::: ::---';ii:'.' ".:i::::::::. .. . .... .... ... ",:.............. ,...........,'. :: .
...................... ., , . . .: ..  .:..--.. ......... -.,.
::.... , ..:.......;.: :.::: x.,.
:I.  I : -. ........ .............. ;:   :.i...'.'...i".:7::'.'.:::..-.--....:,7.:.,.....
.: : ::... .. : ::: ..b; ::;,.... :.: ::: ::>,:i:i:. -.:] -::::::::',..- ...
...... .:....:1-1 ..I.......I....I......
..:p.,.: .... :d:... ::: ::.,.", .. ..
.. ': ': .:::.::";.:.::. :.-:.:,:.>:.:.:,:. :.:.;.:.;. ..::;:. .;::: :::..................... . ., :... ;_:... :..:.:.:. .:. :.. X"ii,:i iiii
.. . . -. .........--`::,-: .::::::::: ::......... . .. .......... .............. ....... :: ::;: :':'. - " : ;. .. .. . ...
.......... .......I . . ......... ::::: ;:-; 1. ,.............%".....,.,.........".
. .. .. .......: .. . .. . . ::. . -......... :. ....... ............................ .......,......................%.'.......,.....,................. .. .............. ............. I...I... ....
:-,X  -. . ... .. I I. I... I ... .... . ::::::.::,.: .:: .,',..-.,........_. :-.:::X ::..::::,.:..::::::...:.",..., .........,...."......,.....'.'...'....'.'..........I .... .... ........ x.b..... ..-...
" ,,... ..::.::: X. - '.."...'........,'... .. ,_ .... .:.:.::. ,
W.. ... . ,-....I
:: ::: ......  .i]w-. iii..-ii::::j:j:j: ]:::j:j:j-.,.:::j:j::.-,::::,::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::;::  . .......'...."........"%..... ... .....
: :. b . .. .... I I. .. ................... ........., ..... 1% ........... .;::,::*iw :::j:j:j:j::::: ]...:. . :.:. .: ..............................,.: ...... ..:.,:.: ...............
I....... I . 1. ....:: ::::.:::.:::::.:.:::%:::.:.::..:.:.:;; . ........... .................. .:::.::::::i::.:::::::::j:::::::: .-................... ..
:: ............- - - ---:----x;->::- :::::- :::::::,:::::::,::::::.:,:,:,.:..- :.,.::.:::.: :j::, I... ::ii::::Iiii::i::i::::::;i:::: :j:..'...............'.. .,.,.
:...I... ,- -,...: :::: ::':: '-:':' .. ,: ....... ,.-:.:.- ,' "" ...............'....., :..M" .....
..U:.:...,ii..:.:.:.;.:.:.:.:,:,:; ...... ... ....".1",..,.... ...... .......
,. .."....-...... - ,... II. I :,:. > :. ..
.. ......... .--MCIP !;;::.:::;;:j:.";:: ... - .. ................ ...'...
:... W... ... 'i. ........."'.....:...
I:::::::'.'.... .....
.I is mem'I % ... - .: "'.........>
::.asi "':i:::t,:,bb '::h" ' ""' t.-. -,
.. . .. .........
.. . :S, .....'......' ..... ins:.. - "O'.. ...,....%,
I.w. ...... 9.: .. ,11.5., .....'T: O. .., liI$ ... -:::::':::::::::::::,i .'& .,
:.:.:..:.:, .R. VPI-IPIPAPPI! ,:.....:'.-.. %.!..-.-.
,.,..,.:.:. . .. - --:X:-:-,-:,Y*-: :::.::.:.!.:::.::::::::.:.,:::, -, -:::j:::-::: ,j: ...... ....... ---.-,._-.-.I
i:li: : .. :.::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::,:.:.... :::::::::::: ....
.x, ... %.-.-..-.-.-.-..% ........ , ,........ ...I.......
.f ......''' . .. .. .. ..........._.. .......................'.... ......
.........: --..,.... .....I....I,-...
......'........ ...... ... :::: ws::....' .. - - --- ....
", ,-...- - -W I.q......,
.. ifi::::,:*: i ,:,: a. iiiifig'. :.Ug&iiv, .-I ......
6, _....H.,_... ..., -I.. ... .., I.I.... 1%. I ,,,:,...
........ i":i W  A-'9-,,.-... -.,..:.: .. ......'........
.....,... -.,... .. ...... ........'..
::ii::iiii:i]ii::ii:i:ii;.,.,i::i:i: .:::::::;::::::::::::::::::j::::i::::i:::::.:.,.,.,:,,:...:::::::j:j::::i:i::i::i::]":: .............., .....
........ .....1. ... ................X".... ...
,.... ::::::-- --: ... - ........ ...' '...X.... .... %.... ....::: ............"...,'.......... .... ...
::: -:: . .. . .. .... :..:::::::. ............. ... 1%1....: -......
. .... .............
... .... ''. ... -ffi ......I... ... ... I -.....
:: '' -... .. : .....'.....
..: . .-  .. .q'..'........ m...- Md.' wi -owi i:::::iijii:::;::::::: :: ............... .........
,:.:....:. --::.:,--...- ,:..:W"' .......... ........ ..
I
:, , : ,-::-:: :::::::::: :*:*:I*v . ..... '.:::::::". .....I.... ......... ..
.b.., ,...... ........'...., .....P so -wn--.v-....'.....
...... W.% .... ...........,.
... ..... ............. . .. --.:::::::: ::: .................., ............... ... ........
:.:.".. -- --- ------ ..,:::.:::::::::.::::..:...::.:.% ...On,: ......." ............. I .. ... I ...-..
,,........,...... :: i: i:*:j:j:]:j: . .:.:.:.!.% - -....
..%.:. .: .. -j::::*:::: :::::: ; , "..X-.-.:..:::::'%:ji:::>. ,%:::::::%:.,::: :-.-:q::'.- ..........I...... .,_.-
.......... .X.: ........... .. xqxx;::::'...,:-:::::::::::::::;::.....I., ... .. .... ..., . . ................ .....'_ .... ......
I...... . ........-.:->>:: .: :.: ..... %...... :. .."............'............'.."..,........ ....
.%.,. ......','.....'... ................
, ,
.....,.,'........,. : -in :%-- ...::::: , :, .::::,. :",':i::::,.,:::'..ii:i:i:.'...,.,i:i,....
-,:,:,:,:,f.,::,:,: f.-Wi,..:.:, . ...,...,.........,..............
- .......:::. .... .... .....
......_lu'd.1"', b",W::::..::::,:::: :: ..... ...... .. ....
:::::::::::.. ,.:::.:::..::.:.::::::::::.::.:::.%::::::::.::,::::::::....::.:..::: .. .:.:....:.:...:.%.:.:.:....-.-......... . .... ......... .-::::.::: :::,:::,::::;::::: :::: ".
I..... :: ..4, . :: .;.. . i*_i.- I. ..:...::: ..
.... . ... .. ..: .: ... ".... ............. ... I....-...... .-.,.... .:..:.:.,:.. : I -.::X-::::-::::::-:::;-::-
:::::::X:::::X.::::.....- ,:::::::.:::::.:%..,.,......",...', ............ .. . :.........,.: ........I............... :":" ':..... .. ...
............ ............ .- -:::% ....... . ....,.... .....
..., ....... ....... ........... ...... ........... ::::::::...:::::::::.::..::::::::::..:::::: : %, I.... :...............: - ::::::.:::...,.."..,%,.".,...%.
...:,:.:.:.%  i:::: :::: %::-::::.-:... ::. ....., .......XI-x.,.
.. ..::-:-: %::.:.:..::.:.:.:::::::......... ;:j:::j::::::i:i:]]::: i]:i::i:]iii::i::i , , --_..:. ..:::::%::-:-.:::::-................ ..:::::.::.,..:...::i..:..:j::]:..:i:i.":..i:i:i:
,- .. >-::::;.:::;:::-: - ..",-
....* .::., ::,::::.:.:.::::::.,.".,.:.,.,:.,.:.::i:ii:iiiii:::]ill:::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :,::::::iiiiii]iii:ii:i:i ::::: . I. 1% ......Y.......Y........ I ...."'.,::-: ..:. .:.. .., ::
.::j ...... ...........,.....,...... X..".:..... :::..:: :::::.
......-- -,::i ..:.:..... .. ., *'-.,w  ii "iii'-.Ii-..-ii
.... W........t.. ..81 ... -..., "" " "' , "',...
...,- ,.%"::: , "
.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..    .                                                                                                                       .......                I    I       ' '                                                 -
....                                                                                                               .....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "    :,: ' ' - , ..  . :   .:.:, :. . -               ..'.:".      .'.:
........%,...%.::i::,.,:iii......i:..,..- .-.':.'...'::
''t. ... 412 ..;;..;.,........:......,i.:. i.-i.on!woj.....i:i:i..-.:...i. ..
I!!OI6. fts. 0dwin e.,
....I:AAI ....'..., 1'......... ..........'..... iiii,  i
.: :; :.. ::::,: :.::::: :: a:,:.:.X.,:- ,': F. . "..,..,..,..
.,:::::::: ::::::::%:.,.:. ::.:.:.::.. .., . . .... .....-
.%.............. .. . .......... . . .I
I: :: ::... .%.;:.. :...:: ::.:::.:.:->:-.-.... "'
.. .. :, - I: ,........
.: - : :.......' ". -.:.:..-.. . .... I:::: :.::: ,:,.-::v:;::: :::::,.
.:: _',:.,.:..-.:::: ::::::a:,::::,::'::' ...... . I.. ... .. X.::::::::::::::::::;:::, .."'...". .....
....I.. ...... .V.........
.....'... .: X... ",.:. %:.;.r..q:-;.-;: -;;;-:-r::X::,: "....,."......,
:..;:; :..:.: :: :-.:,: .,. ..
.: ::- w.:-::w:;-:;;::w::::: :, :, ::.
..:.:. ,..:. .. .N..:.: ....I:-.:-::::: :



Project Appraisal Document Page 20
Country: Bmzil Bahia Water Resources Management Project
............ 11, ..... .. .... -  - . .... -1 . ....... ..- .. ..
.. - . . . .''. ., .I -..  !. . . . . .,...
Iliwi. . .... . .. I... .-
:: I:::.  ...   ..... , ... - .. . .... . -  .
.. :. :. ::: :: I:. . .. ........-
;:"6w:,Vj0#,w0w . s:. .:-.... -  -.. . .----. . ... I
.,."..:.,:..:.:..::.".::::,.::..:,...,...........:..:..::..'..,..-...;.... . - -.........  .......-.--.-.I -
I... .....I.... .... I.. ...  .. .. .. -..
.... ...............I
....... ............I. .. . . . .. ..,.
.::: _ . ..... ,.. .......,..  ....... _ .., .. ......,... --,.- ........',- --... . -. -.........I
-.. :---  ..,-:1::'.--.. ..........----.-. - ....
...... .. . .- . ... . - - ......,-.-..
_.....'......... -.-...  -..  -... -. .-. .... .-  ... .. ..- ........ . .
.        ..       .     .           ...            .      .  .        -      _           ...                             :     ::          ::  -                                               .                .  I..      .    .....    ...-                  -        -        .         ..                                 .                    f. - .  .  -- ..   . - .. -......    ...  -- . : ::.  - "-....:  I .. .::4.. ..       .
......... . . ..... .. ...... ... .. . . . .-.-.. .... ... . -.. .. . . ... -.. ... .. ..  . . ..I. -..  - ..
........... . ....... .. .. . ..  . ..  i .. --- - . .. .. .:: 1:... .-.
,.. . .. . _. .. ..., --  .   -....., . ,", .. "- - .-it ..:-i ... - . --..  . ..-  . .. .
...: R:-.:-.-.: -X: ........., . -. -.. . . . . . ....:..
.I... -  -. ... .... .. - ..i...  ..-.
.. . . . . .-....
..Um: .t.. ..... .. . . .
Wk u'esourees: anagemen . ... .... "  ..I.
.. ..,... ..
-__ . .. :........... - .. ......  ......
.... --.... ..I
..... ................" ..... ....: , ,.. .., 4. .I ,: .. ::. I_..
.......... . ..........--::-: - - ... . .. .. .. ..... --.. '..." .... .. ...... ,.:- : .
-............-....-... . . ......i .  -. ...: _ :..... ..'...... .... - .... .... . Z:.
I. .... _ . .. ... - -.: . -.. ....-...... -....... -. ---......'.
..:-..... --- -   --- -  ... -. -.. ....-.....--
... .... .. .  .,  ....--. ., .
----...  - -. ...- --.-.: :% :: : :..
.. . M. . . I.: :.: . .....
...,...Cot. .. .i..
.._P-.--r-.-P nen    .. ....- ...I...:::.
...... . ... ...... .... .... -  - .:: :: - .., . . - - ... .-.....-....-,. .
.. ... -  .- - -- - .-- .-- - -..
!::,..."%,....,...,......,.."..,.. ... .- .. - -.. ,. .....::  .
''. . .. .. . .-  .-:...
....,.-..,,- .... .. ,............. . ...- ... ..  - -''.....'.- .. . . . .. . .--1  .. ..
.._.,..__ .., ..  ..--  ..,_ '' ...... ,......-.
-..-..-.-.-..-.........'..,...I .....-. .I. ..  ..... ..- .. ..
. ....... .... .. .. . .. ....... I .. ... . . ...  ....
.... ..... ..- . .. - ......'... ,. ... :: ..: ::!::  .... .. .. ......'..  .. I  ... ..-..... .. . -.. 
. . .... I ... ...... .. 
.11.  -             -         ..             .        .    -                    ......                                                                                                                                 .         ,..     .-            I     -                        ..                                 .   .        .                                                                                                  ..
..,-._..-....-...-.. ... ... ....  --.. .. -. . I.....:,..
.... ..-_ --.- ----.--. ..... i. . .. . . . . - . - .. .. - ..  ..  .-.
-        '.  ...  .......  .  .                   _                    .             .        .  .                                                    ..                                                   .               .        ..                        ..                        .               , .  ..
..,.: : i th .:':: . I. .. .. . UGP Uili .. ,rcoutit flind-.
,.:I:..i-s spe.. .. _ ..... ,  erp . . ing
J*Oft-f6r: fmitutiotial honing - I  Acified n...., .t..
....- . . . . . . ..,. 
-. . - ....... . . . ... ..._.. ... .
... ,4': . ...._.......-..'
,.. . .,: ]:.-f A -::'. I-.... ., -.:. .. I. .. I. . . ...,,,  - ::: ] : : ::1.
,, .,. .- . !.M-.. -. .. .. ..-
,lTed iied .: - ssist; . ....... ....I. :I r) ementationTlaw will.he sufficient
.. .......... .. . . .... we .:........--... -.....-.-
.... ::::::: . 1: . ,,.,...,:,. .:,: . ,:.
.. ... .....-. .  . .,: - .:-..... ...... -1.:. ..:,:. f.. __ . -- I. ..
......... ..... .... .... _... ... ... . ... ..  , -. ..- - .. ..... -... . .- -, ..-.... ..
...  -4...........'....                .                                       .     .           .      .      .                                                                                                    .     .  .        -         .        .                 -. .                                                                                                                                        ....
       ''            ,                                                                                        .        .
.q.T... M.....-.._ . ......,: :''I,'fit&& : SRH.......
... .,... ..At,,.. :,!  ,u.-...
... .....
...P. -_w,.:....P........ . ---.
. .4W :ainuilifty
...... .......
...-W, Is ,oit' tlicjio cif t14n&tirnel
.....;0FSPSIMD emt
.. . .. ...... ....,.  y
...... .. -!... :.:.41P -...::. .9n .. ... I........ 9.
.. .,.,......... ...I..... ..
.. . .... .. . . . . . .. . . ... . .
.... . ..... I. . - . . . . .. . . . .-:---
... . -- .. - .. . - ..:_. 1:...
::. -..........,.. -.. .-   -........ .. ., .
,.... _. ....... ... -..  -. . - :.: : :: wi :.- ... -.. .. .- --. . ..
.. ,..... ..- - . ...-  .- - -... -
.::, Me." , .... .. .. . . . .. .. .. . .--- . .:t- .  -
.. .  --  . . ... . . . . . . .. . .-  .  . . . .. ..
:..U. ...........'. - --- ........  -. -..--- :.::::  no.bf Wiifter user..... .,..  .. .. . .
. ..- . . .I - .I ... -  ... . . .. . ....  .-.. -..,. - .:::I::.  . ..
...................... . . . ........ I .  ..'..'.... . . .. .. ... . . . . . .-  .. ..
- ....,............... .......   ....                  .........'.............'...-I                            ..''.:..    :        :        :       :        :       .       .     .......                 .....            .. ..  ..........                                           ...         .             .          .                   -                                                                . I    ..         ... ..  ..  ::.    A
. -
, ,                       ,.                                                                                                                              , -             :Co    sult                                                ::. ,. A                  .ffi'  -    : 't:                                                    -
.Iv -mo P-,. n ..-. . -.
,
..':iA-,: I.
". .':` '"1'I':i:..mle-.
.."MUK": b : 1:tf H': drtnants: . 11. CIcloa 13rolec:
:.... as mn : o . . oPorowgica- 1: asgociat ons .:yp .-:.
. . . . .._.wi: ....
.....''.. . ... . .. ... :.. - - .. . ...  ... I-. .- ........ -.. .3:.,....
... .. ..... . .. . .. .: .:. . : .:.:. .:..: .. ,:::: :: ::::.. f..... ... .. I .... -  I. ' I' '' '''''':.. ... .1 I ...." II .I
:.        ..      :.:.:.:..:.:.::..:Ii.l.:.:.:...:,.:...                                                                                                                                                                                                  -..                    .                .               ..                       .        .  .          ..                                     .     .. ' ,     ,  ,     ,     ,  ,     ,    . ,, ,,    ,:  .'.  -4
-- ... . ...    -  .- :;: imp emeiita ioii, -.
.. . . .. .  .   .-.. -....
'- -iiid: ' " ... - ...
.--.. .. . . . .. .  111t6ilidi6fik. ...... -  - ., t'.
:."forina ion sy:.At S-  .. .   -...
.. . . .... ... . . . . . .. . .. . . ...  .....
.. ........"..'........-.", . -.......- . .... s.- - . ., :1: -... -- .- -.....  .-...  ..-  ...
-... ........ . .. ... . . _ ''.. --. :::: :.:..  ... ... .. .-.... -... ...  .... -- - ,  ..-  - . .. ....
.... ...... . . . I. . ... .. .. ....  .._ . ...... : 1. -i...
..-:- ..:.1:.-.... .6f hyi.....i .... I ... '. ,.... . ::I . 4-
' ''
........ ....... .... I,-- o
M- U, :J: ': " -Bril 41 :... . .... no. ineedrolo.gical :, Bifik: 6d ..
::. .: - ..  i. :. ,:
...9wonagifid,J , .: : .Ae isJ rm; and
..... ... I.  - ..
-- . . . . . . . ._-..  ..
.. ..... . ..... 1. .. .... 0. --.... .- .. .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . .-1. ..-. .
.... ...,.i. - . . . .........
-1 .  _ . . .. . ... ..... . . . ....... 
. . ...., b.-...f. ...x......... ,...... ... ...
--
.:..... . ---I-..
.... ....    ....................               .-                                                                                                                                                                ..  .
::40:. ." . . ......," -- d''t .':
M. .. or-MA. -                                         - d:i                                                                                                 ions ,-ifttall                                            ,                   -            I.:-   ; i .,I - :i  stat,    . ..
. iN :             :           4: .                                                                                                                         i.
.d_: . : ..:: --. --...... C,,tan-t ::  1: g'weh. 4 i eqoa e-
.fic.: tion, ., e:..... ....... 11 , ns....
.. ... .... I .. . ... . . . . . . . .:  : : :  :: ..
.. .. ... .. . . . . _ .... ... ...'... ,:.. . . .:. . . . ...  ........... .
..... . . . . . . ... ...... . ....
.......... -... ...... .. . _....-.........-....:i:. .. . . . . . . .
.. . . . . . . .
.......... .. ... .-...... . ... .... - .. . . ...
..'',..I..... ..... . -... . . .... . ..-....._'. .:... ... 
,..  ....: ...: I ww!. .... . .. .... ....... ...... . ..-:..., ::;.i.:j::..:i i. ]: ..... .... "........
. ....., ....''''..'...'. ''.. ....... '.
..... I---, ........ . ..... -... ........................., ': ... :..'J:4hd:.:,.ao
.,........,.............................,............ ':. ..,. . . . . . .' -- 
:: -. . I. ... -1 .....
   . '. , -- .: ,.- -.
:PMvM:.,.  .. . --::: : ': 1:  -- - .fity:
... .. ....... .. . ..  ..
- -- .1 --- . -m .: - ,...1.,. --.
.... .- .- ..   .. - . ,.. ... . - ........... ... .... . ..:: ...;,. _.:  .. - -
-. .  . .....- .... . ..
.................-I..... .-.... .. -.....-- .'''..  .  - .::. .: .: , . V:_: : .-.
-.. . .. .. . . . . . ....4. - . .... ... .... I...-.
-1 .. . . ... ... -..... ...... .. . .. . .. .. .6 .. .: .... . ....I. ......
...... I. ......I.. ...... .... ... ...... -.. .. ....- . .- I - I.:;
.... ......-   .   . .1  .- ::,:,::,-,. . -.OM S&i ........-.. _ .sD6.n6biIitv.i::.. ... ... ...
.....:1 cbletidtbf . ...J bu tio.i
..... ...... .....'... I ,perv sn ::r
............'....... ...... .. . ... I. -.. . ...''....... ...I . _. I,.. : . ..  ::_.
-.  ....-...... ... - . -.. -.- --. . . . . .-!..- ... .. .....-
.. . ....-- .. . ....:. . .- . .
. . . . . . ... . . ... 
.-........ ..  -.    . .. . - .- . .- . . -_  .- . ,- ..
,. .. ff .  . . -... ..  .
,...  :...-.
- :... :- . . -  -  .  --.  :,:.  . ... .-.. .,
. . . -..... --...... -... .... - - ... . I.... ,..... .. .,..:.StA.  .- , ,,
.. .. ... . . - - .. . . - . I Fx . and.Hydr&. ..:II
...".. . . . . ....... - - --::::. '._::: tonoinic .., .. . .i. p . . .:::
.. . ....I. . ..... I. ...... ... .. . .......... .. ..:
. .. --......- .. .. -.... . . . . . .....'..... ................:.-.: ::. .. - .-
.................. ...... ........ . .... - - . .: :- .; .. ...  ... ... I..... . . , . ..-.. . .
.......... -1 ..... I. .:, :: :: ::. :. . . .
.............'.............               ...                       -    -       .         .....             . .       .      -                 -         .      -         -                -           ..                                                                                                                                                                                 ..                                                                 ...
...... ..-.. ...-.:..A. q ahd :ii  . .
.. , -. . - -.. ..
,,
. -... -.. .. ...... . . I_ .f:..
..... ...... -. .-..... - ...:::. . .-
...''. .:: . ......
.. ... .... :: W6410045ank b... . stro
..........'',.............. .... . -..... ... - :. . . . . .11I.-. .
... -... -................'.. ..........  11 .......... . ... .: ..I metecirolo ...,y ,::.
.. .  .  - . .. ...... .. -.. . .. . ..:! . .  . -- -,-X: .: -X::-:X- - - - .... .. .:,.,::: w-:._': . . . .. .. .
.'' , _ _, ..  . .. ._,: ..
.     ......I                                                                                                                                                          i        _    ..        ....  . ...     ....,   .     . .:.,  :11i      -- - ...    ....   ...   ...     .....                                                                     ..                            .             .             .             .                     .:
-.............-.... ..... .. - .. . -.  ...  ..... . .. .. .. .- -6 -...
__ . _ . . . . . .... iii :Ji i  ' : i-.. . . .. I  -.  .,,
.... -- ... . .  _.. ibe. complotliail Of the sec.011( ::....9 idiempr
..............-I............ ..... ......  ...:
,..''. . ... . . . ... . ..
-...... .._- . ...., .   -.. -. ... . .I. ..-- :.pTtogra
- .. ,._...--.--........ . . .:,:: :J............ .- _ . ...... -... -- -:..6-........- ..:1  ....- ..mi.ii
....,.,.......................,..I .. ..-.. ..-..w.:::.... _....'........-
.., .......,_ .. .. .. .. -.-- ... -... ..... ....., .. .. :- :"... _...... - .... .. ...
.. ... . - .-.  ---..-.........-,,- -, -...-......
..... . .. --   ,. _,..-.. ft: "...... I .. . -- -.. .
..managemen i iiI
..-.- . .
.. .--.,''.._. ..,. I. . I-
... .... . ... . ...-...
.. -.... . -.-. . , , -,, :; 'i , '',, '' , ,'' , ,
..... ...., ...- . -. . . ....::
..... . ....... ....:.:. . . . . .
......  . ........ ......... :...:........ - - ... ...... ... . .... . .,:''... .. . . . . .. ..t
.... _. . . .. . .. .......... 11 .... .. .. ... . ... .... . ..... ... ........ I. ....
.., . .  . ................ - . .... .... .. ........ ..... _-.: I. -11-
.. . I. . - ...-..":: .  -i ! 1 ypwq-PC; , ,,,
.. ..   . .. ... I .... I. I.. . .. P- ......... ..-
............................... ...  . ..  -..... . - .. q ..- .,.., ..''..,,I :,,,..__ ''...:.: . .... . ..
 ,., I
.. .. ,
...... ... . .. -. .... .... . . _. - :.:",
.... . .. -........  . .. . . .. ---:::::1d---. ...
.., Erin ,. .
_ ....   ...--
,, ". . .",
1.1- -..... ....................... ........, .. .. .. .. .:,.:-:.--- -c ls
.... .. .. ... ..::..:, .,,.Iini . ... -..  . . . 
-... - -- -... .... . .. . .. ... .. -. -...-,_
`. . .. . .......... .... .. . . . . .vIeftlentat'l n , '' ,-. . .11
...... .. - . - .  ... .  ,... - -.6 wltiant:
-..... . - ......... .-...... ...... ..._... - .. ...  .. .  ....
..... ..... .. . . . . .. ..... .. .. .... :,.1 . . . . .: ': . ... -.. -... I. -1  . .. ....
._ ., .. ....--,- '': .. .. . . .-., .. ..: .: , ,..... ... ... ..-
.'......... -..... -:::%:-: :: :. :1:.... -....-  .... ::: .:,::. .:.: ... ::::-..:-.-1-,.... . . . . . .........'...........". . . . .. -..  . .:::::::::.:.:.:,.,
.... I . -... . -... . -.... -- ....- . -..
-.............. ..- . .., - -...... . .... ..... . .- ... .... .....: ... ..... -...._. ...,....'.,
..-... ......... ... ., - .,-,. ' '' dt,''d 
.. .. . . . ...
..... ,..... .... ...... I.... . .... ........ - - .... .. . .... .- -..-.:;:: - :.. . . . ... . . . .: . . .:i.
.. _-- ..........- .... I. .. . . : -w :.. . -.- .. -... .... ..:.: 6hu.
-........'............... .. . .I.... ...
... .,.  .  -. .. . . . . .. .. .-
... ... . ". --. . - -.... -... .  ......  ..- --.. -...., ........I. . .  . .iriei
-............. . . .. - .. . . . . ... .. - -... -.. .. .,
........ ..... .---... .. . . ........ .... -.. I.   . .. .... -.... .."
. . . . .. ....... I. . . . . .. .   , :- .. ; : I ... . . .. . . ..,,.. ..
...................................................... .... .. . .. . . . . . . ....  .:.T.. .... .-- -.. -..-. ......... .....
.. .....  -.......-....-...... , , , ,, ,,
......., ..... . ....- .- --'. -,
.: 1'''' _::.....
,., Omoonen::.i. . . .i. . . .. .. -.... . .. . . ..... 
.'' -, 1.-.:.:..:..... -:
.:.:: .U.9 vC. 0, ''"''' ,1, ''' 'f' "' ,, , ' .......- ... . .
, , , j::. -:.:.::: :.:...
..b..f .......,.,.__w..
.-......:rop 10n.0 '.......... .. . ...... .... ... 1. ....  , ,.:. Pf9gram. . .... ..... 
..., ...P. . .: ................-........
..11t r ...tM: C... .... .  ... -... . . . .
.. , ... .
..., .... .. .I. . ... .. . ..  ..
,... .., .. .. .. - ... ....-- --.  -.1-.., . ..
"...........- .. L: . ... 4 ,.
-- . ....... 11 .... - I.... . . ...
.......... ..... ... ... .... . ..-.... .. ......
......:. ......
W..... :9.:.:, .]::::-::,::----..., .. -.. . .  .. w::. :...: ,- : ! ..: -.1..
.. .. .. .. .. . . ,..,,.,,...,.. ......
....,,, , ,,..
..,,::::::::, . .:. .
'r.on..:N,bhu'al):..,.....::::..:.::.:::4:::.:::,::::,..::.-::.:.::.: ii::i.:i,i:ii manaaement: i: ... I--
... ...... ...  -1"........ ... ... . .. ......
.. . .  .:: .:.. .....'... -......
... ...'......., . . .. . ,:: :::::,: %:.:- :::rojed Opp ati'-.. .... ---:: .: :, .f,4:::.. ::.. .. ''
....h y               u             ion.,:: I......... . ....... .            ..   .          .               .   -_                                                                                                                                              .
.. _ .  ...... ..,. . .. . . .. .. .......I...... .I.... I .....I.
. .. ............. . .. .. .- .. ....:..'.....-
.... .I...... ..   . -. . ... .:: ;.. .... . .....- .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. ... .... ...-
... I ,.. - .. .. . .. . . . . . .. . . . - .. ..  .. -. .I... .. . . .
.. .. . ........-
%, ..........dfi..:,...;.......... ,.......... ........6-'......... ..: ..: ,.......
.... . . .....
::: , I. ..... ..'', . .. ... .. .. ....,
-. er.. 'd:::. ' - "' - - ' - - .,:4ssistance to SRH :
1"..........'... . ... -.....
--.-....
I..... ___ .: ::,::..:
:::,easibi.A.-'''' :':,::, 1 - InfrAstruddri on an. .
F.4tW. . .. ,-... ... . :: ... . . . ...
. ...           .                  ....                                                                                                  -        .          .        .        .       .        .        ..          ..   ...  -       ...........                  .    -     ..          ....                 .        ..                                                                 .   -         ..            . ,.W. S.",,.:.. ..  .I     ..... .. .......    ..  .  .
,... -- -....... _... ....... ... - , ...... ...-.-.... ... -......... ...- I. . . . . . . .1 .. - . . ..
...... . .....   . . . . .. . . . . . . . - . .. .... -.
'' , . .... :.:::i.. . - .. - .._. . _.....-... .. .  - -... . .
I fit.  . .,-wdhtft-....,:... ..., , -.
-.:., ... .. it ,. II.. ,: : ::. M. -.-:
.....ance'M',I fi .B-.::d:M &E U" "-...'
,-`: ' ,-
:.. - :: -. .. .........
::..E- trowle Ahd, -iA0 ,::..::; .anua: .0r: asm::, .: .: ::.::: .:ian:-..
.... ...... ...  - ...  -........'.4. . .:: . . . . .-.. . ....... "I"...... ....-. .. ....... .
... ..... .... ... ..... . .-I.- - --. . . .. - -....... ...... - ...  - - - .....-.--_:J -... .- ,
- ....... ..... -... . . .....'... . ... .   .. I - I. -..... ... ....... .. ... .  .. .   ..  -  -., . .. . -- .... .. . --
....- _, . .,.. . .. .. .. ....-. -..-..
:. -1., ---- ........ - .- . -.... . . .- -.. - .. - ...
... _.. ...
._:- wi:.-....
.           -.   ..... . .... '' -                                         .. , ". . :                             ::,:.::!,: W                             ser: - eve. s: .. w izah                                                           Im s                                                 .    .
.....V- - I'' 0 '' ii.01,......
...  -................ I. -..... :: .'. .. . .. . ..
,.                                           ,   S                   .                   .       .     .,               ...
.A. W, , "' 't.:..L6. ... -.. ....
:.      -             SS          M-     M-           .:... I......  ..    ....                        -           -        .       .     ... ..     .  .        .     ..               .                 .       .,       .  .     .       .  .     -           -         ...           -      ....)             .:.:        :-        ...         ...                                       .     .                 .-                            I     ...  I...
............. . .. I .. . . . ..... ..... ... '. . . .- ..:....... .....-
 -.. ..... . .  '' .''. '' .. :.. . :.- ,.. I.......  . - .. I . . ... . . ..........I -. ..
,. .. . .,.,:..: :-:,.-::::-.: . . ... . -.....'.- -... . . .!--_. .......... ...... ....... ..... . . .. . .:: :: .:,:, . --  .
.. . ... .
..,:.. , . .
-...-... ---d.1.4'.  . .. .. ...-
... I... .....: :: f: ., .
. . . ... -- :.
.'.--.-....., ':bythe''ehid'offfiesecon vear:i... :...
... - im immt-. ...
:.R-,e. Ath"", ,,, ::. . ,:.::,. '. . 4....,
,I . . . I. . .-......'. ...:.. : .:: ;.::.:: -:.....4 .....
,... . . .. ..... ...::.......:,:,.!:; : :: :: ::.I ::.....  .... ::.. :: :......
.. .. .,  .,. . ...:,...:-..,.,.....,.. . I.... ......... .,,--,,....... .:......
. ........ .I ...-...,::::.J.:. ::. :,:, !. " . .--'t,- ,fi..., .-
.0 ..., i . .- . . - ....... .. ..--.1  -- .......
H.W. .. . .. .  ....,"' ,,:.: ... -. .. ..-
... _.... ..............'.... . .-.. ,,
... ...-.:
.::..-_.-._- -....... .:.:::. I' ..- -
I., : r. ..W. ... .., -,.-., -.
.....;4: ................'...... . ...- ..f-I...., ... . .....I I
:....0 .. .. . .. pwqjec unp.ementaton .... I-. .. . . ..
.... ... . .........-...... . --l'........ ......... ..-.. .-.
......., . .....-..... -,... -. . . . -... ... I.. . .:.::_,:, ... ..: .......I. ..... . .. . ... . . . .- ..- . - -. - ... .. ., 1. . ., ....
.. .... ... _ . . .- .  ... I... ....,, ,,. -.. .-. --....... -.....-..,.. .... . .. .... -...--...
....'......'_ . .  . ...'.....1.1.... ..
. -. . .... .... .... ..-... I .I. . ... . .. .......
-.. ....--4. --.,......,..,..__,. ... .... ....- .- .. . . , .- 4. ..... .....
. . . . .. .  .. .. --  . .. .
.-,,- ",... ....... ....... . I. . . .
... ... .. .. . .. . . . .. ......................,............ ... - 11 . .. .... -..
.. .,-.. . . . . . ....
-,,... . .'J, "'' , 'II
--:12 ..:,.:. .:.::::.,-'...- ... ..... .. ........: .. ..-.,,
.. ., .::: ". '. - - -I..., ....
,...... . .............. ...... I .... -.... .... ........I ''...
: : : ..---..,:.. : :: :: ::.: !:,:... .. ... - :.
"-:-.. :.... .... . ..-.. .... I.-........ ..1-...--- .....
. . .. -- .. -.....
............ -...... ..-.... ... . . . .. .  . . . -. ., . -..... . . ...''.
.. ....... .. .. . . .:-...''................- ..-.. .. . . . . .. - -- - -.1. ..... ........... .. . .. .....  -1
... ..... . .-_  . . . ... . . . . . ..... .. ... ..... ... .. . . . . -- . -. ...
... ..... . .. _.. _ .. . . .. .. ... --.:::.. :- : :::,:: . . ..-... ..... . .. .. ..
..... .... . :.. .... ..... ... . . ... .. ... . -. ,I . ..
... ". ... :.-.-:..,.;-....- . . . :: -:-_:... .........:...---. ., .....-.- .... . . ....... ... -
....... ... -. .......,.:::......,.",.....". . . .:..;.:::: :::.-... ..1...-. .....
.. - .. ......... ....I- - - . . ......._
. - ....- '' .. -... I--- . . . . . .:
.....          .           -                                                                                                                                       I        t         f..                                                    -       -       ..    ..          -        -.                                                       .   ..       -       .     ....
................%,.......".... . --... ...... ... ......._.,.., . .. .. ...,,.:::. ,............. -... . I  ,:........ .1.:
.....:.:,._.. .. .. ..... . ... . ...... . . . .yConiI,f f, 1: 1.
.- :-.6.- ......, . . .on* irs i U : ye  - -- - :-:.:...,..-.".
: :. ..
,......P:01 -........... .......
..--.....-,. .. ..  . .. ..,,
.... ..- :i  . . . .....
-.: %..:.  . -..... -  .. -::.. ::.::.:.:.....:. .. .I,, ,.... ... -- . --..... . ..
.... . ..11 i:. I I .:.:I:,
.. .... I... -1 - . .  . . -. -:..... ,................ .. .... ,,.. .  .
,,, ,
,.. - ....''...... .... ..  ....-....... 11 .. .. . .,% "' ' "- '''' '' ......., ---_.. .. .... ............
.......::::...,..:...,:,.:.::,:..: : .: ......... ........... .. ... ..... .. . .w.. . .........,... . . . ...... ............... II . .I... .....- ......... "....
- ... . .I.. ... .. . __.. ..1. ... ..... I- .. - . .. ..
--- -..I... . . .:W.... ...... % . -- -...... - -........-.. . . ..
......'............. ... ... ..- . ............,....,............,.,. - .: .. .....1. After:r6settlementilor. ...
....... .......... ... . . .... ................... ... ... .. . . .. .....I-I ....
-,..-....... ..... . .... .. ........  ., ''. . .. . . .. .. . -.. . . .: - . . .....4.. . . . . . .I
I. . ::.: : : -........... --..: ... w-:-_ -..._.- - . -. - -. . .-  ... ..- ..........--.... .:.: - .:-_ -- - ..,...; _  ..... . -- ... -4 .... ... ... ......-............ . . .. .. :.,:-- .. -.  - .. .
... ... .. . .. .... . . . .-....... .... ..... -...
-....... -.: ... .. . .. ...-  ---....--.. . -. .... - ---..........'....
... - :w -: .: -- ... -.. ...I-. %-  :.., . .. ..
......- ... ....- -  ,.., ,::.:: :. :,:..A::..... I. -..    .... . .. ...
.             .,                                                                .        ,.                  .-                                                                                                                  e      M    A fi     d A       id           o  f         ...    ..-        ......... .... %..::                                                .....              .. .. .....  ::::::::.::,  .     ... .-         .     .
.."........: . --........ ... . : !,    i..i, .
.... ::::, ..- .... .. I. .......- ..... ..
..... -.. .. i 1.,Com Satioii, th.. , ... ,... -.
-................... .......'................,.,......::
.%,..::::..,:. ...-... ,.  PCRI.::::::
., ... . ..-............ ........I.-. - . .: ):,._I. .. . .I.
-. . -.. ... :... ...I,: .... . .. . . . . . .. ..
....'........--... . ,.-..-.-  .: ::.: f.:.. -: .. .... . . -... .... --.
.. -.  .. . .... -. . . ..... .... 1-4........ I . .... ...- .. 
.... ........ ... . . . ..-: ., .. . .. . - - - - - - .....,
.        ............  .  .         .     .    ..       .                               .             .        -    ....  -          ...  .              .       .        .        .                ....                                                                 ....  ....  .-                              .          .       .   .         ..                                                                                .    .       -1.
......... . . . . .-.. - . -.. .''. ,  ,.., . . ... . ":. ..... . . . . . . .:. , .. -., ... -
,.... .::. . ..... . .-.- . .......... - . ... . . . . - I .... ...
.,,,: ..: I,- .  . I .. ..
-.... .. -... -..-.. .,.,...,..,....."....'..,....". .._... .. ... .. .
. ....... I...... I. .. .. .I.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 21
Country: Brazil                                         Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Annex 2
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
Detailed Project Description
Water Resources Management Component - US $30 million
1. This component would provide the necessary technical and financial resources to strengthen the
State, Basin and user level institutions to effectively manage water resources in Bahia. The component
would establish an institutional structure which has the technical, financial and legal capacity to
administer a bulk water distribution system which would: (i) ensure users a reliable water supply to
meet consumptive and productive needs; (ii) supervise infrastructure A, O&M; (iii) enforce water
pollution control mechanisms; and (iv) encourage efficient water usage, through allocation and
enforcement of water rights allocation, mediation of conflicts, and collection of water tariffs. It would
also provide training and technical assistance to enable administration, operation and maintenance of
water infrastructure by establishing and/or strengthening water users' committees in the three priority
basins through technical assistance and training programs, including a public information and
education water resources program. To facilitate water resources management, the SRH would
develop and establish an integrated hydro-meteorological information system (HMIS) for the three
priority basins.
2. Proposed Institutional Arrangements The management of water resources of the State of Bahia is
governed by Law 6.855/95, which established the Superintendence of Water Resources (SRH) as the
managing institution of water resources. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of SRH will depend upon the
degree to which the SRH can coordinate and collaborate with other State entities. The PGRH's
infrastructure component, involving dams, aqueducts, irrigation works and water supply, requires close
coordination between the SRH and the respective implementing entities.
3. The importance and complexity of the US$85 million PGRH require the establishment of a
specific institutional structure. Decree 6.295 of March 21, 1997 specifies that: (a) the Project
Administration Unit - UGP, within the SRH, has clearly defined administrative responsibilities over
the Project; and (b) the UGP will exist only in the period of project execution, having during that
period special conditions to work with administrative and financial flexibility. Among its special
attributes should also be mentioned the payment of its personnel that will have to be according to the
quality and specialty of the work that will be demanded from their employees.
4. The present structure of the SRH management level is considered very suitable, needing no
substantial changes. To strengthen the staff of the SRH, special career plans and salary levels would
be applied to attract qualified professionals. The project would contract 32 well-qualified technicians.
5. Decentralization of the SRH SRH would be decentralized into Water Administrative Regions,
according to the following guidelines: (a) structural simplifications, eliminating or decreasing the
necessity of hierarchical subdivisions; (b) integration with decentralization of CRA and DDF,
constructing joint field offices and allowing for the adoption of common administrative units; and (c)
the differentiated characterization of Water Administrative Regions may recommend specific solutions
for each regional office.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 22
Country: Brazil                                          Bahia Water Resources Management Project
6. Development of the UGP and the SRH. The UGP is a unit the duration of which is limited to that
of the PGRH. The transformation of the project preparation unit (UPP) into the UGP would occur
between May and September 1997, with expansion of staff, office space and infrastructure and
computers. The SRH, through the PGRH, would gradually absorb the responsibilities of UGP. In the
formation of the SRH, emphasis will be placed on highly qualified professionals at the managerial
level, complemented by specialized consultants, scholarship holders and trainees. The technical
professionals will be contracted independently or through a management company.
Infrastructure Component - US $55 million
7. This component would finance the construction and rehabilitation of water resources storage and
distribution infrastructure in the Itapicuru River Basin. The selection of the investments would be
based on well-defined economic, technical and environmental criteria as well as social and
environmental impact assessments. All infrastructure investments would be consistent with the Basins'
Water Resources Management (WRM) Plan. To identify the project infrastructure investments, the
component would evaluate and assess proposals from the perspective of their economic and financial
sustainability, technical soundness, and social and environmental impacts. During the project's first
year, the component would support the construction of water infrastructure for the Ponto Novo system,
as well as the Tucano well and canal system, in the Itapicuru River Basin.
8. Ponto Novo Infrastructure. This investment would increase year-round availability of water to the
surrounding rural communities, and provide a source of water for irrigation for more than 2,000 small
farmers. The sub-project would include the design and implementation of a rural potable water
district. The construction of a dam in the area near Ponto Novo would achieve multi-sectoral
objectives by storing and managing the flows of the Itapicuru River including runoff from the upper
basins of the Itapicuru-Mirim, the Las Pedras and the Aipim Rivers. Through this project, it would
possible to augment and stabilize the available water supplies for human consumption and permit the
establishment of an important irrigation network. As a result of these activities, the region would
become a significant pole of economic and agricultural development in northern Bahia. This
infrastructure would serve as a pilot project of local and basin water resources management in semi-
arid zones. The project would use the latest technologies regarding the optimization of water and
water infrastructure administration, operation and maintenance as well as develop the capacities of the
local and Basin users' associations.
9. Tucano Infrastructure. The objective of this investment would to be satisfy the present and
projected urban and rural water demands of the Quijinque and Cansan,ao municipalities by means of a
400-m well to tap the waters of the sedimentary basin of Tucano of the Itapicuru River Basin. The
infrastructure is expected to provide water to more than 13,000 people, improve agricultural
productivity, increase herd size and stimulate the local economy. Extending from the well, there
would be a 57.5 km canal with rural derivatives placed every 6 km. In addition, the investment would
establish three agricultural and cattle-raising utilization units (UAP), which are triangular-shaped
common land areas to be used to develop agricultural activities. These investments would be
complemented by the delivery of technical assistance to the farmers concerning irrigated agricultural
practices and operation and management of irrigation equipment.
10. As a part of this activity, Operation and Maintenance Manuals would be prepared for use in
training programs and in subsequent infrastructure activities. The pilot experience could produce
important lessons regarding agricultural technology transfer, institutional development processes and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 23
Country: Brazil                                                     Bahia Water Resources Management Project
monitoring and evaluation of environmental impacts which would be transferable to other basins
within the State and to other States within Brazil.
11. The feasibility of the rehabilitation of existing dams in the river basin for possible inclusion in the
project would be evaluated during project implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 24
Country: Brazil                                                                    Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Annex 3
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
Cost and Financing Summary
(Years ending December 31)
(US$ millions)
Project Costs (US$ millions)
.. . . .   ... .     .   .   ....   .... , ...                                    .    ......   ..   .   .   ..   ......   ..  :.   .:...   . . . ....   ..   -..   ...   .....
years                 ~~~~~1997         199                1992000'                           2Ol20
:      .-- -e:.:    - s    7.43            30.95               17.36            6.53              6.71
.Iiestnin  Costs
Re~urreut C-sts           0.51              1.62               1.91            2.14              2.45              1.89
.....                           7.94            32.57              19.27             8.67             9.16              7.39
o. ... ...."E 
Financing Sources (% of total annual project costs)
......... .            70               64               164                 44               48                42
G         e3335..6                                                                                      2 .....5..   .....  58
. .e         . . .     ~~       ~~30     36                 36                56               52                58



Project Appraia Document                                                                Page 25
Country: Brazil                                                Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Annex 4
Btazil
Bahia Water Resources Hanaqnrmnt Project
Components by Financiers
fUSs)
Local1
State Government,             IBRD                    Total            For.        (Excl.    Duties 9
Amount        I        Amount         I        Amount         I         Exch.     Taxes)      Taxes
A. Structural
1. Ponto Novo
a. Dam                                        5,655.872         16.0  6,640,849        54.0 12,296,721          14.5 676,028.4  9,595,955  2,024,138
b. Resettlement Plan                          2,562,335         50.9  2,467,701        49.1  5,030,036           5.9 450,878.0  3,75e,005  821,153.2
c. Re-forestation (MHta CiliarI               981,731.1         46.0  1,15Z,294        54.0  2,134,025           2.5 107,752.7  1,664,813  361,459.3
d. Irrigation Dovelopmetit                    4,930,652         42.9  6,564,070        57.1 11,494,122          13.5 537,123.8  9,138,837  1,818,761
e. Water Supply System                        1,297,125         36.3  2,272,662        63.7  3,569,788           4 2 178,216.9  2,794,131  597,440.4
Subtotal Ponto Novo                             15,427,715         44.7 19,097,578         55.3 34,525,293         40.6 1,950,000 26,951,741  5,623,552
2. Tucano                                        2,265,308         26.6  6,238,586         73.4  8,503,894         10.0 462,793.1  6,664,366  1,376,735
3. Rehabilitation                                4,612,692         44.8  5,680,843         55.2 10,293,535         12.1 495,886.9  8,170,791  1,626,857
4. Otliet Systems                                326,043.7    _20.2  1,289,9078   __9.8  1,615,121                  1.9   9)99.9   !_ '    71,557.7
Subtotal Structural                                 22,631,758        41.2 32,306,085         58.8 54,937,843         64.6 2,918,080 43,321,062  8,690,702
B. Water Resources Management
1. Institutional Arrangement
a. Integrated WRM System Development          653,399.5         75.8  208,066.1         24.2  861,465.6          1.0 123,347.1  662,021.3   76,097.2
b. WPiH Organizations Developement            4,576,939         65.2  2,445,952         34.8  7,022,891          8.3 931,427.1  5,353,843  734,621.4
c. WRMi Legislation Devetopment               412,056.0         63.4  237,787.0         36.6  649,843.0          0.0  60,492.7  566,591.0   22,759.3
d. WIU4 Training                              1,197,641         33.6  2,351,592         66.4  3,539,234          4.2 311,341.5  3,095,576  132,316.7
e. WRH Events-Diffusion                       258,806.5         26.0  736,487.2         74.0  995,293.7          I.2  14,615.Z  936,143.7   44,534.8
Subtotal Institutional Arrangement               7,088,843         54.2  5,979,865         45.8 13,068,728         15.4 1,444,224 10,614,175  1,010,329
2. Technical Support
a. Hydrological Database                      1,799,233         30.4  4,119,446        69.6  5,910,679           7.0 101,719.8  5,530,474  286,484.6
b. Water users csdastre/ Water uso rights  1,532,633           44.8  1,809,789         55.2  3,422,422           4.0   4,943.4  3,307,604  109,874.0
c. WRt System Development                     927,720.4         60.8 _995.8             39.2  1,5286 16          1.8 152,235.8  1,30.4,07    70,506.1
Subtotal Technical Support                       4,259,586         39.2  6,608,330         60.8 10,867,916         12.8 258,899.0 10,142,153  466,864.6
3. Tools for VW1
a. 8asin Master Plans                         229,020.0         13.2  1,501,654        116.8  1, 710, 674        2.0  27,142.1  1,610,229   85,303.0
b. State WA Master Plan                       25s0  40.9        17.6  1,177,980       82.4  _1,428,829           1.7  3L799.5  1,_55t839   69,190.3
Subtotal Tools for NRM      ;                    479,860.8         15.2  2,679,642         84.8  3,159,502          3.1  30,941.6  2,974,067  154,493.3
4. Project Management Unit                       539,787.8         18.2  2,426,222         81.8  2,966,010          3.5 305,330.4  2,483,628  177,052.1
Subtotal Rater Resources Management                 12,368,077        41.1 17,694,079         58.9 32,062117             4 2,039,395 26,214,023  1,808,739
total Disbursement                                   34,tOS,836        41.2 51,000,164         58.8 85,000,000        100.0 4,957,474 69,535,085 10,507,441
Fri May 09 15:48:41 1997



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 26
Country: Brazil                                                 Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Annex 5
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
Economic and Financial Analysis
Water Resources Management Component
I1.    The project's Water Resources Management Component would promote rational and efficient water
resources use by: (i) establishing an integrated water management (WRM) system; (ii) providing technical and
financial assistance to strengthen relevant institutions and entities; and (iii) developing the tools for implementing
the WRM. The principal outputs of the water resources management component would be:
A. Better coordination of water resources management activities
Better coordination among the agencies involved in WRM would yield significant economic benefits. In
Bahia, among the more than eight agencies (EMBASA, CODEVASF, CIR, CAR, DNOCS, CERB,
CHESF, COELBA) involved in WRM, there is little or no coordination in their respective water program
planning and implementation.
An integrated approach to WRM would foster resource consolidation and complementarity, and better use
of each agency's respective expertise. Water resources management coordination would lead to more
efficient project design and implementation, decreased cost overruns and more efficient use of existing
infrastructure.
B. WRMDecentralization
By strengthening the Regional Administrative office network and the Water User's Associations, and
developing a modem hydrological infornation network, the component would promote WRM
decentralization. With a more decentralized WRM, water would be used more rationally since it would be
more closely monitored, communications between users and WRM official entities would be improved and
a greater share of the economic cost of water consumed/used would be gradually borne by
consumers/users.
Table 1. Water Resources Management Component: Activities, Expected Impacts and Magnitude
Impact             Value                        Supporting Evidence
l          l       Source                       Level
Increased benefits       High        Ganges Basin         20% more benefits
(Rogers, 1993)
Reduced investment costs  High       BWRM Project         32% savings
Avoidance of cost overruns    High   Bank's experience    15% cost overruns in WR projects in area
Improved timeliness of WRM   Medium  Bahia's Irrigation Plan   12% loss in the present gross value of
development              ________production over the project's life
WRM Decnrlzt
Better control of WR use  High       India; Singh, 1983   25%/o-35% increased irrigation efficiency
Increased user participation in  High  de los Reyes et al, 1989  500/o-75% increased agri. productivity
WRM                                                       100% increase in irrigated area
Promote WUAs             High        Subramanian et al, 1997  25-30% decrease in costs of irrigation
__                                                 .  .supplies
2.     Bank Experience and Economic Evidence The evidence, derived from direct Bank experience and the
economic literature, convincingly demonstrates that the economic gains to be realized from improved water



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 27
Country: Brazil                                               Bahia Water Resources Management Project
resources management more than justify the associated costs. Table I summarizes the project component's main
activities, the nature of their economic impact and an estimation of the magnitude of these impacts.
3.     Minimum Impact Approach. The minimum impact approach was applied to evaluate the economic
feasibility of the project's water resources management component (Cummings et al., 1996 and Mexico Water
Resources Project, 1996). This approach determines the minimum economic impact needed to justify the project
investment. It determines the minimum impact ( increased benefits and/or decreased cost) the component must have
on the relevant values within the water sector to yield a minimum feasibility condition whereby benefits equal costs.
Social costs were assumed to be identical to economic costs. The water resources management component would
affect: a) water infrastructure investment decision-making; b) the development of the State's irrigation potential;
and c) A, O&M of existing and new water infrastructure. Table 2 summarizes the estimated annualized benefits and
costs of the activities to be carried out, and when feasible, their estimated economic impacts.
4.     Annualized costs of the water resources management component are estimated at US$ 2.5 million, so the
implied value of minimum impact to justify the investment would be equivalent to 0.3 percent of the social value
of the water sector. This means that economic feasibility of the water resources management component would
require that it affects (either by increasing benefits or decreasing costs) the current levels of water sector related
benefits/costs by an aggregate of equivalent to 0.3 percent of the social values . Even when applying this partial
list of conservatively estimated benefits, the annualized estimated benefits stemming from the component would be
more than US$20 million. Comparing the annualized benefit with the component's annualized costs, the
component's benefit cost ratio is greater than 8.
Table 2. Impact of the Economic Values of the Water Sector
(US$ million)
Economic Values (Benefit and Costs)    Present         Estimated Impact
Level
Type          Annual level
Planned water related investments in priority basins  24.0    15% efficiency gain  3.6
Costs overruns on water related investment      3.6    66% reduction             2.4
Public investment in development of irrigation  69.0    66% reduction in         6.8
costs overruns
Potential marketing of water rights (for present level  .  5% trade @ 20%        1.6
consumption)                                            premium
Irrigated agricultural production              770.4    +5% in area              4.9
O&M costs of irrigation systems                 26.9    5% efficiency gain       1.3
Water related emergency outlays                 4.1       .                      X
Ttal value                                     89&0                             20.6
Infrastructure Component
5. The project's Infrastructure Component focused initially on the Itapicuru River Basin, the river basin most
affected by water scarcities. The population of the project target area consists primarily of small poor households,
who, because of lack of irrigated water, rely upon subsistence farming. Access to irrigation would provide these
households with additional employment opportunities, improved productivity and higher returns. Increased access
to plentiful, safe water would improve their health and general living standards.
6. Economic and Financial Considerations. Prices reflect market values during the last quarter of 1996. Input
prices were collected in the specific region of each pilot sub-project, and product prices reflect average farm gate
prices for the last three years during harvest season. Financial prices were corrected by subtracting the value added
tax -or the service tax- imposed on them. The rate of exchange of the Real was set at R$ 1.04 per US Dollar. The
opportunity cost of capital used was 12%, and the time horizon considered for all the sub-projects was 25 years.
Shadow prices for labor were set equal to the prevailing minirmum wage. The estimate was based on a survey of the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 28
Country: Brazil                                                   Bahia Water Resources Management Projed
area population which shows that the overwhelming majority of households have incomes under two minimum
wages. Joint costs for multiple purpose investments were allocated according to the Separable Costs - Remaining
Benefits (SCRB) method (see Table 3 for the main assumptions).
Table 3. Infrastructure Component: Economic Analysis
Main Assumptions, Benefits and Direct Beneficiaries
1-. .  ''''''--X . . . .   ..   ..   ..
Discount rate:                      12%
Time horizon                       25 years
Growth in real prices of output:   constant
Real Exchange Rate                  constant
Input prices                       constant; last quarter of 1996
Output prices                       constant average 1994-1996 prices
..,,:: .--:  :--......  .......
increased horticultural, crops and forage production
increased water supply at lower cost
.,  .  ::': ::,:: ' ' ~~.   . :. '. ':.  . . . . .   . .   .-
Irnigation                          397 farm families (385 in Ponto Novo, 12 in Tucano)
Water Supply                        3885 urban households (2805 in Ponto Novo, 1080 in Tucano), and
130 rural households (Tucano)
7. Results of the Analysis. According to the analysis for this component, over a 25-year time horizon, the present
value of the net economic benefits would be US$67 million and would have an internal economic rate of return
(IERR) of 29.5%. The present value of the net financial benefits would be US$31 million, and the fnancial rate of
return would be 27.3%. The component would represent a fiscal gain of US$10 million. The analysis of fiscal
impact considered the effect of the infrastructure investment on revenue generated from taxes on: (i) agricultural
sales; (ii) farm employment; (iii) agricultural income; and (iv) water supply services (only in the case of Ponto Novo
which would be handled by a private frm). (See Table 4 for the results of the analysis for the infrastructure
component, and the Economic and Financial Analysis Report in the project file).
Table 4. Infrastructure Component: Aggregated Flows and
Internal Rates of Return of Pilot Sub-projects
(in 000 US$, 1997 = 0)
Present Value of Flows              Fiscal Impact
Economic              Financial                NPV
Analysis             Analysis                Taxes
Benefits            132,041               97,398                24,797
Costs               64,137                65,861                14,691
Net Benefits        67,094                31,537                10,106
IERR                    29.5%                 27.3%                 25.8%
Switching Values:
Investment costs: > 250%                              Benefits: -51 %
Infrastructure Sub-Project Analysis
8.     Estimates of internal economic rates of return (IERR) for two infrastructure sub-projects, Ponto Novo and
Tucano, each covering two different types of interventions -irrigation and water supply systems-, were carried out
through cost-benefit analysis. In each case, joint investment costs were distributed following the Separable Costs -
Remaining Benefits method. Benefits from irrigation investments were calculated as the aggregate of results of four
All figures are referred to the portion of the investments actually utilized and evaluated for the project



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 29
Coumtry: Brazil                                               Bahia Water Resources Management Project
farm models, representing the four main irrigated farm types in the region. The streams of attributable sub-project
costs, plus the streams of costs and benefits for all farm models, representing almost 400 beneficiary farms, were
aggregated and discounted to obtain the net present value (NPV) of the net benefits attributable to each sub-project.
Benefits from water supply investments were estimated through the application of a simulation model that allowed
calculation of the consumer surplus derived from increased water availability at lower unit cost (see Table 5 for
Summary of Economic Analysis).
Table S. Summary of Economic Analysis
Estimated Internal Economic Rates of Return
V' ~ ~ ~ ~ \ .1 "S
.W atr  So p y                   4 0
9.     Ponto Novo Sub-Project The Ponto Novo sub-project would include construction of a dam and reservoir,
a resettlement plan, reforestation activities, and two pilot interventions: development of a 4,200 ha irrigation area,
and upgrading and expansion of a water supply system serving the municipalities of Ponto Novo and Filadelfia.
Following the SCRB method, joint investment costs for dam and reservoir construction, resettlement plan and
reforestation activities were allocated 25% to irrigation activities, and 75% to water supply activities. According to
the analysis for this sub-project, the present value of the net economic benefits would be US$48 million and would
have an IERR of 28.5%. The present value of the net financial benefits would be US$33 million and would have a
fnancial rate of return of 29.7%.
10.    Irrigation Development. Benefits from irrigation investments were calculated as the aggregation of results
from five farm models which represent the main farm types projected to settle the new irrigation district. The
streams of attributable sub-project costs, plus the streams of costs and benefits for all farm models representing
almost 400 beneficiary farms, were aggregated and discounted in order to obtain the net present value (NPV) of the
net benefits attributable to each sub-project. Attributable sub-project costs amount to 64% of the allocated joint
costs -the development's share of irrigation water to be supplied by the reservoir-, plus all separable costs.
11.    Water Supply System. Benefits from water supply investments were estimated with the help of a
simulation model that allowed calculation of the consumer surplus derived from larger water availability at lower
unit cost. The underlying demand function was derived from the demand function for water for human
consumption in the Itapicuru Basin, calculated as part of the study to determine optimal water charges in Bahia.
Attributable sub-project costs amount to 35% of the allocated joint costs -the system's share of drinking water to be
supplied by the reservoir-, plus all separable costs.
12.    Tucano Sub-Project The pilot Tucano sub-project would comprise the first stage of a larger mixed
irrigation and water supply system, based on mining the plentiful, high-quality water resources lying deep
undemeath the sedimentary Tucano basin. The complete system would comprise two main distribution systems
serving five townships and ten small irrigation developments (200 ha total), fed by multiple wells. The first stage,
to be financed by the WRM, would include perforation of one well, installation of three irrigation (27 ha total)
modules, and construction of the first leg of the main for one of the two original water distribution systems. This
pilot distribution system will serve three groups of consumers: major urban households, smaller town households
and rural households. Following the SCRB method, joint investment costs for the well were allocated 25% to
irrigation activities, and 75% to water supply activities.
13.    Benefits from irrigation investments were calculated as the aggregation of results of three farm models,
representative of the proposed irrigation modules. The streams of attributable sub-project costs plus the streams of
costs and benefits for all farm models were aggregated and discounted to obtain the net present value (NPV) of the
net benefits attributable to each sub-project. Attributable sub-project costs amount to 64% of the allocated joint
costs -the development's share of irrigation water to be supplied by the reservoir, plus all separable costs. Benefits
from water supply investments were estimated with the help of a simulation model that allowed calculation of the
consumer surplus derived from larger water availability at lower unit cost.
14.    Beneficiaries were distributed into three groups, with costs of water for each group calculated based on
time spent in collecting and treating water. The underlying demand function for each consumer group was derived



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 30
Country: Brazil                                                     Bahia Water Resources Management Project
from the demand function of water for human consumption in the Itapicuru Basin, calculated as part of the study to
determine optimal water charges in Bahia.
15.     Attributable sub-project costs amount to 100% of the allocated joint costs -the system's share of drinking
water to be supplied by the well-, plus all separable costs, with the exception of the pipeline. The pipeline for the
distribution system is dimensioned to accommodate the demand of the households to be served in the second stage
of the project. For the purpose of the economic analysis of the distribution system, the pipeline costs considered
correspond only to the share of the total carrying capacity that will be utilized in this first stage of the project.
According to the analysis of this sub-project, the present value of the net economic benefits would be US$19 million and
would have an IERR of 32.3%.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 31
Country: Brazil                                              Bahia Water Resources Management Prject
Annex 6
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
Project Institutional Arrangements, Monitoring and Evaluation
1. The proposed State of Bahia water resources management system is relatively simple. Unlike other States,
Bahia decided that the Sao Paulo model was overly complex and not entirely appropriate for the water resources
challenges facing Bahia. An important departure from the Sao Paulo system, which other States have adopted, is
that Bahia's system would not be based on a State Water Resources Council. In other States, water resources
management is directed by the Water Resources Council, composed of the River Basin Committees. In these states,
the River Basin Committees encompass a variety of competitive interest groups. Instead, in Bahia, water resources
management would be directed by an Inter-Institutional Council. The River Basin Committees would be
representative of only the water resources users and would serve a consultative function to the Inter-Institutional
Council. The simplicity of the Bahian system would allow for the gradual development and adaptation of the
system to the realities of the State water sector.
2. The state of Bahia is organized into State Secretaries, with their corresponding decentralized agencies. The
most relevant to water resources management are:
Secretary of Water Resources, Sanitation and Habitation (SRHS), formulates, implements and evaluates water
resources politics, basic sanitation, popular habitation and promotes, coordinates, executes and supervises the
elaboration of the respective plans, programs and state projects, making them compatible with Federal and State
Government politics.
Secretary of Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLANTEC), inter alia, coordinates, and evaluates the
preparation and execution of plans, programs and development projects for the State as well as prepares, coordinates
and executes the State environmental politics.
Secretary ofAgriculture, Irrigation and Agrarian Reform (SEAGRI), prepared the Irrigation State Plan,
through the Coordination of Irrigation (CIR).
3. Other important entities are:
Company of Rural Engineering of Bahia (CERB) is a semi-autonomous enterprise which executes water
resources utilization programs, projects and actions, including river perpetuation, well drilling, and dam
construction.
Bahian Water and Sanitation Company (EMBASA), a semi-autonomous compahy which executes water supply
and sanitation policies.
General Directorate of Water Resources (SRH) is an autarchy, tied to the SRHS, which develops and executes
projects, public policies, and rules related to water resources control, use and management. The SRH: (i) promotes
studies about the water necessity and availability; (ii) operates and maintains hydro-meteorological network and
information data bank; (iii) monitors the execution of multiple-use water resources civil works; (iv) controls,
protects and recovers water resources; (v) mediates in resolving water conflicts, and (vi) monitors regulation
compliance.
Center of Environmental Resources (CRA),which executes the State System of Environmental Resources
Administration (SEARA), is an autarchy tied to SEPLANTEC, having regional offices. CRA defines criteria,
guidelines and utilization rules of natural resources and manages the environmental licensing system.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 32
Countty: Brazil                                                 Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Coordination of Irrigation (CIR), part of SEAGRI, coordinates, plans, evaluates, promotes and executes
actions, studies and projects, aimed at the development of irrigated agriculture, consistent with the Federal actions in
this area.
4. Principal Federal Entities are:
National Department of Civil Work Against Droughts (DNOCS) operates within the "Drought Polygon",
excluding the area of San Francisco Basin (administration of which is under CODEVASF). DNOCS executes the
Federal policies concerning: (i) the economic and social welfare of the area, (ii) the civil works to protect the
population against droughts and floods; (iii) irrigation works and policies; and (iv) resettlement programs.
Company of Development of the San Francisco Valley (CODEVASF) (i) promotes rational water and soil
utilization for agricultural and industrial purposes; (ii) encourages integrated economic development; and (iii)
establishes agro-industrial and farming districts.
5. Proposed Institutional Arrangements Water resources management in the State of Bahia is decreed by Law
6,855-95 which established the General Directorate of Water Resources (SRH) as the managing institution of water
resources. To fulfill this role and execute the State Water Resources Management Project (PGRH), SRH will
require close coordination and collaboration with other State entities. As the SRH is a management entity, the SRH
will rely upon other entities in the contracting, implementation and supervision of all civil works included in the
PGRH's infrastructure component, consisting of the construction and rehabilitation of dams, irrigation works and
water supply infrastructure, requires close coordination between the SRH and the respective implementing entities.
6. The importance and complexity of the US$85 million PGRH require the establishment of a specific institutional
structure. The Decree 6,295 of March 21, 1997 specifies that::
a) The Project Administration Unit - UGP, within the SRH, has clearly defined administrative responsibilities over
the Project; and
b) The UGP, which will exist only during project implementation, would special administrative and financial
flexibility would permit the payment of salaries which will attract and retain quality professionals.
c)  The present structure of SRH management level is considered very suitable, needing no substantial changes.
To strengthen the staff of the SRH, special career plans and salaries levels would be applied to attract qualified
professionals. The project would contract 32 well-prepared technicians.
7. A specialized team, within the UGP, would be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation system. With the
support of consultants, the SRH and the implementing institutions, the team would develop and establish the system.
This team would propose necessary adjustments in the PGRH implementation plan to correct and adjust for
deviations in the schedule. Since this project is decentralized and multi-disciplinary, involving many entities, a
relatively sophisticated information system, with graphic computation resources and data bank would be utilized. In
particular, the Superintendence of Economic and Social Studies of Bahia/SEPLANTEC, through its information and
statistics center, would collaborate with the information system organization, including in the field surveys.
8. In addition to semi-annual and annual progress reports of the main project activities, the UGP team would rely
upon regular meetings with those responsible for the various project activities, both in Salvador and in the field, to
assess and analyze data and information used for project monitoring and evaluation. To facilitate the system,
progress reports would be standardized for rapid input into the information system. In addition, special attention
should be given to the performance of the institutional arrangement and the impact of the infrastructure and
subsequent economic activities on the environment.. The reports would be accessible to World Bank and the
general public..
9. The information system should allow the evaluation of the PGRH performance and results, considering, not
only the acquisition done and the expenses, but also its impacts on the management of the water resources in terms,
water users conflict resolution, economic impact, environmental implications, etc.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 33
Country: Brazil                                                Bahia Water Resources Management Project
MONITORING INDICATORS
10. For the monitoring and evaluation of the PGRH it is proposed, in a preliminary character, a set of economical,
social, environmental indicators, specially those referring to water resources and management to be applied to each
one of its components and sub-components. The project of the proposed information system can add or exclude
other indicators according to the available information and the periodicity in which other factors can be obtained.
INDICATORS
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
Water resources management   Establishment and operation of:     Approval of regulament of Water Law
system                      Political frameworks;                Regular functioning of the institutional
Committee of Hydrographic Basins     arrangement.
Water users associations             Regular convocation of water resources entities.
Official water resources    Institutional development of SRH.    Data processing system: equipment, training and
institutional structure     Decentralization by Water Administrative  administrative systems - technical and managerial.
Regions.                             Offices of the Water Administrative Regions,
Institutional development of intervene  established and working.
entities.                            Acquisition of logistical infrastructure, equipment
Articulation with Federal entities and  and vehicles.
from other States.                   Agreement and contracts with State and Federal
Modernization of installations and   entities.
laboratories.                       Installed laboratories and effectuated analysis.
Legislation, rules and      Regulation of the management system.    Improvement ofjuridical instruments.
procedures                  Study of sanction legislation and charge    Absence of conflicts among users.
of wages.                            Increase in the efficacy ofjuridical norms.
Legal support for preparation and
application of plans and programs.
Associations of Water Resources.
l________________________  Legislation for ground waters.
Training                    Courses, training and technical      Courses realized and evaluated by students.
apprenticeship.                     Realized campaigns and public targeted.
Exchange and technical cooperation.  Programs of environmental education - reached
Campaigns of publication and awareness  children and teenagers and evaluation of results.
of rational use of water.           Users training courses and evaluation of obtained
Social communication and environmental  water economy.
education.               .           Rehabilitated works and regularity in maintenance
Guidance and training of water resources   -judgeship.
users.
Training to operation and maintenance of
water infrastructure.
Publication events and      Support plans, programs and management  Number of realized events and evaluation of l
information diffusions      system.                              results.
Seminars, workshops and fast courses.    Issued publications, number printed and number of
readers.
Technical support to water  Hydrologic and hydro-meteorological  Modernization, operation and maintenance of
resources management        information                          hydro-metric system.
Analysis, processing and systematization of
hydrological information.
Development of hydro-meteorological infornation
system.
________________ ___   Hydrological monitoring: quantity and quality



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 34
Countby: Brazil                                                      Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Registration of users                   Registration of users: supply, irrigation and others.
Registration of deep tubular wells. Registration of
hydraulic works.
Data bank of use of water resources. Sanction of
___________________________ ___________________________________ -the right to use the water resources.
Water resources system                  Information systems about water resources.
Geographical information systems- SIGs.
System of decision support.
Hydrological models: quantity and quality and
hydro-geologies.
Water resources planing       Director Plans of Hydrographic Basins    Elaboration, updating and complement of director
plans of basins.
Development and application of data processing
systems of support to the plans.
State Plan of Water Resources           Elaboration, evaluation and control of State Plan of
Water Resources.
Formulation of annual and multi-annual programs
of water resources.
Management of annual and multi-annual programs.
INF RASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
Ponto Novo System             Ponto Novo D)am. System of Associated   Increase of: the water availability per capita, the
Supplies. Irrigation System of Ponto   volume of distributed water, the number of users;
Novo.                                  Irrigated area and volume of produced water
Users' association
Increase of the per capita income
Health improvement: nutrition, infantile mortality,
diseases related to water, irrigated area, agricultural
production
Number of agriculturists with regularized land
Tucano Project                Pipelines, reservoir, implantation of wells  Same (ditto)
and demonstration field.               __
Recuperation of cilliary      Implantation and recuperation of the    Area reforested and maintained
vegetation                    cilliary vegetation.                    Reduction of sediments transport
_______________ ___   Monitoring of water quality
Rehabilitation of existing    Survey of the water structures and      Number of recuperated structures
water structures              formulation of a recovery proposal.     Outflow and volumes of recuperated water
Efficiency of operation and maintenance
Assignmnent of operation and maintenance
Other systems                 Elaboration of studies and projects of  Number of elaborated projects
other works of water structure.        Updating and innovation of used criteria
Evaluation of evolution of the projects' quality
I Quality of environmental and resettlement studies



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 35
Country: Brazil                                                            Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Annex 7
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procuremen
All project components financed under the proposed Loan would be procured in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996). Contracts for works estimated
to cost more than US$5.0 million equivalent, and for goods estimated to cost more than US$350,000 equivalent,
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank
Guidelines and using relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank. Any modifications to such
documents which may be necessary would have to be agreed with the Bank.
Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
_____________ __  (in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                  Procurement Method                          Total Cost Including
._____________________________  .__________  ______________                                 C ontingencies)
.__________________  ICB                          NCB              Other             N.B.F.'      _
1.   orkas                         21.52          13.81                                          37.48
(12.86)       (7.61)            (1.19)                        (21.66)
2. Goods                           12.15         0.65              1.38                           14.18
(9.14)        (0.49)            (1.04)                        (10.67)
3. Con  iItStrvice               _                                 . T?8                          17.78
___ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __   __(16.00)             (16.00)
4. Training                        __      l_12.55                                                2.55
l ________________________ i        _____  i__i  (2.29)                                           (2.29)
5. Miscellaneous  T1I                                                                2.49        2.49
____________L___I____I_@                                                                (0.0)    (0.0)
6.  ecuirent Costs
Personal Services                                                                5.90         5.90
(0.00)      (0.00)
Operating Costs                                                 4.62                          4.62
.     (0.38)5                       (0.38)
Total          7                33.67         14.46             28.48            8.39         85.00
_ _ _  (22.00)   (8.10)           (20.90)           (0.00)       (51.00)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
I NBF = Not-Bank financed
2 National shopping for works and goods
3Includes consultant services (individuals and firms) and technical assistance, to public entities involved in implementation and to
beneficiaries. Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants
(January 1997)
4 Includes resettlement indemnization fund and land purchases
I Recurrent costs (travel, per diems, office maintenance and supplies) for Project Management Unit



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 36
Country: Brazil                                                  Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Table A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Category                                Selection Method                       Total Cost
(Including
Contingencies)
QCBS'        LCST          Other        N.B.F._'
A. Firns                          11.0         2.55                                    13.55
(9.90)       (2.29)                                  (12.19)
B. Individuals                                              4.234                      4.23
X__ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _   _(3.81)   (3.81)
Total                          11.00        2.55         4.23                        17.78
(9.90)       (2.29)       (3.81)       (0.0)         (16.00)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
QCBS = Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
2. LCS = Least-Cost Selection
3. NBF = Not-Bank financed
4. Individuals selected on the basis of qualifications of consultant.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category                     Type of Procurement                 Prior Review
1. Works|
<US$350,000                             Three quotations                         NoneI
US$350,000 - 5,000,000                 NCB                                      All
>US$5,000,000                          ICB                                      All
2. Goods
<US$100,000                            National Shopping                        None
US$100,000 - 350,000                   NCB                                      All
>US$350,000                           ICB                                       All
3. Consultant Services
(a) Individual                         Consultant Guidelines
<US$50,000                          Qualifications
>US$50,000                           Qualifications                           All
(b) Firns                              Consultant Guidelines
<US$100,000                         QCBS or LCS                              TORs only 2
>US$100,000                         QCBS or LCS                              ALL
I Random Ex-post review
2 Except for single source selection of consultants, assignments of a critical nature and amendments to
contracts raising the original contract value above the threshold.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in                       Financing Percentage
US$million
Works                       16.40            55%
Goods                       9.20             75%
Services                    16.55            100% of foreign expenditures and
90% of local expenditures
Resettlement Plan            2.47            80%
Project Management Unit:     0.38            100% of expenditures.
Recurrent Costs
Unallocated                  6.00
Total                       51.00           _



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 37
Country: Brazil                                          Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Annex 8
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
Environmental Assessment and Resettlement Plan
Part A. Environmental Assessment Summary
1. The State of Bahia's Engineering Company (Companhia Engenharia Rural da Bahia, CERB),
responsible for the dam construction, with its environmental team, including two environmental
specialists, an engineer and a geologist, performed an environmental assessment based on extensive
field visits and environmental research. On the basis of the Environmental Evaluation, the Center for
Environmental Resources of the State of Bahia (Centro de Recursos Ambientais, CRA) granted
CERB the Site Permit (Licen,a da Localiza,co, LO) for the proposed dam construction. CERB will
present to CRA complementary studies related to the civil works, upon which the Conselho de
Prote,do Ambiental (CEPRAM) would base its decision to issue the Implementation Permit (Licen,a
de Implantaqdo, LI), required to initiate the civil works.
2. Area of Influence. The general area of the influence is in Ponto Novo, in the interior of the State
of Bahia, about 300 km northeast from the capital of Salvador (100 51'12" S. latitude and 400 10'13"
east longitude) and wholly within the semi-arid area, found in the Brazilian Northeastern region
("Drought Polygon"). In the Itapicuru River Basin, there are more than 18 darns with a volume
greater than one million i3. The proposed dam would be located 4 km from the city of Ponto Novo.
The region is entirely within the Brazil's Northeastern semi-arid area, which experiences irregular and
often protracted droughts. The spatial and temporal distribution of rainfall is complex, with an annual
average of 908.3 mm, ranging from between 477.6 mm and 1,129.3 mm. Rains fall between January
and March. The driest months are between August and October.
3. Abiotic Environment. The area to be directly impacted by the construction of the proposed
system would be the 3 km around the lake to be formed by the dam and the affected river stretches, as
well as the areas near the 24 km stretch downstream of the dam up to the lake formed by the
Queimadas Dam. This area is generally level with gently rolling hills. On the flatter and slightly
elevated areas, the soils are predominately latosoils, having medium texture and good drainage.
While lacking natural fertility and moisture, the soil's physical structure is suitable for agricultural
development, including mechanization. On the lower levels, soils tend to be sandy, rich in sodium
and are not suitable for agriculture.
4. Biotic Environment. Water quality is most threatened by sewerage. Many of the smaller towns
and population centers, which lack modern sanitation systems, discharge raw waste directly into the
river or streams feeding into the river. While the larger -urban centers have treatment facilities, the
treated materials are also emptied into the adjacent water bodies. With normal rain levels, the river
has sufficient capacity to recuperate its water quality to acceptable levels. According to CONAMA
classifications, the river water quality is Class 2 - adequate for human consumption with conventional
treatment and for fish life, recreation and irrigation, without treatment. Ground water sources in the
region are limited, both in terms of quantity and quality. Mata ciliar is an important riparian
vegetation. This protective vegetation helps maintain the stability of the riverbanks. In the project
area, despite the lack of effective control of land clearing activities and good natural resource
management practices, the river banks are relatively stable and in sound condition. Species,
indigenous to the area, which are threatened with extinction are: (i) flora: a) "Areoira" (Astronimn
urudeuva); b) "Brauna" (Schinopsis brasiliensis); c) "Angico" (Pitadenia sp.) and d) "Quixabeira"
(Bumelia obstusifolia); and (ii) fauna: "Jacu" (Penelope superficiliaris). While these species are



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 38
Country: Bazil                                              Bahia Water Resources Management Project
indigenous to the area, CERLB is currently conducting studies to determine which, if any of these
species, might be affected y the proposed system.
5. Environmental Impact. The proposed project could pose some negative environmental impacts.
During construction, it is likely that the building equipment, material and dirt fill deposits could
damage the vegetation on the river, provoking erosion and run-off. Unless there is an initial clearing,
filling the reservoir would submerge stretches of mata ciliar, the decay of which would effect the
water quality. Earth movement and heavy construction machinery could temporarily compromise
downstream water quality by increasing turbidity and solid sedimentation. Once the reservoir is
filled, its 24 km shoreline will lack the natural vegetative cover needed to contain and protect the
shoreline from erosion. Finally, increased agricultural and livestock activities and pedestrian traffic
along, near and across the reservoir's protective border could damage vegetation and accelerate
erosion. Appropriate measures and precautions might be needed to replant, where necessary, and
protect the mata ciliar to prevent accelerated erosion and sedimentation.
6. Recommended Mitigative Measures. CERB is conducting two exhaustive studies to: (i)
prepare the preliminary proposal for the establishment of a regional natural reserve, the first of its kind
for this ecological habitat. The report would propose the site, cost and action plan for reserve
establishment; and (ii) analyze the impact of the proposed infrastructure and water system on the
regional flora and fauna, especially those species threatened by extinction. This study would also
provide a complete analysis on the effect on marine and benthic life resulting from modifications in
the river flow characteristics. If deemed necessary, the study would propose a plan for rescuing
animals which might be affected by the flooding. These reports, to be presented to the World Bank,
would be completed prior to construction. As a result of these studies, the project would develop: (i) a
natural habitat reserve; (ii) a detailed plan for saving the animals from the area to be flooded; (iii) a
design for the reservoir's fish stocking program; and (vi) a flow regulation compatible with
environmental needs.
7. The project management, the UGP, has hired a full-time environmental specialist to oversee all
environmental issues related to the project, especially the system to monitor and evaluate the project's
environmental impacts. To support the environmental specialist, a transitory Technical Commission
for Environment Management (CTGA) would be established to oversee the dam and construction,
reservoir flooding and implementation. The CTGA, composed of the environmental specialist and
representatives of CERB, CRA and other relevant institutions, would ensure that negative impacts are
adequately mitigated and/or compensated for, or corrected, to the fullest extent possible. The project
would conduct an initial clearing of plant growth in the area to be flooded. Once constructed, the
project, in collaboration with the Instituto Florestal, would conduct a R$1.6 million program to
recover the mata ciliar, the vegetative growth critical to the integrity of the river banks and shoreline,
to fully cover the reservoir's perimeter and the river banks with local varieties of mata ciliar.
8. Contracts with firms involved in the construction of the dam and reservoir would have clauses to
ensure that environmental management practices, meeting the standards World Bank and the State of
Bahia, would be followed. To reinforce the contract provision, construction workers would receive
basic environmental training. Special zones would be designated for heavy equipment and waste
materials to mitigate possible damages to the shoreline. In addition, once construction is completed,
the project would finance a program to recuperate environmental damages resulting from the
construction phase. Road and electrical infrastructure affected would be rehabilitated or replaced.
Finally, to contain the expected flow of traffic, special foot paths and access roads would be
constructed around the reservoir and near the river banks. Based on the findings of the detailed study
on marine life, the project would stock the reservoir with appropriate fish species.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 39
Country: Brazil                                             Bahia Water Resources Management Pract
9. As part of the overall project, extensive environmental education programs, directed to both urban
water consumers and farmers, would be especially important, not only to the mitigation and/or
prevention of any negative environmental effects associated to the dam and the reservoir, but also to
the sustainability of the region's natural resources. This education program would focus initially on
the Itapicuru Basin and would extend throughout the priority Basins in the State. The program would
stress the importance of maintaining the ecological balance through the rational water use and
management of natural resources, particularly water and soil. The allocation of water rights, as
provided for in the project, would significantly mitigate the potential of environmental impact of the
system by: (i) setting aside the water rights for the river so that river would have a minimum flow of
400 I/s; and (ii) under the licensing arrangements, monitoring and controlling effluent discharge.
10. The State Project Preparation Team has developed an Environmental Monitoring Plan,
encompassing the area of influence of the dam and the reservoir. The Plan is based on the
consolidation of the observation stations of the Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
(DNAEE); the Superintendencia para o Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE) and the
Departamento de Obras Contra as Secas (DNOCS). Under the Plan, this basic network would be
equipped with sensors to measure rainfall, water flow, sedimentation and provide early warning of
extreme conditions. The use of data loggers would permit virtually simultaneous data collection,
input and transmission. In the upper part of the Itapicuru, there are 18 observation stations.
11..  The Plan would monitor water quality, including the production of, and alterations in solid
materials (see Table 6). In addition, special monitoring systems would be established to document
and evaluate: (i) the state of the mata ciliar; (ii) the effect of agricultural activities on the environment;
and (iii) the condition of the regional vegetative
Part B. Environmental Assessment of the Water Resources Management Component
12.    The project, focusing on three priority river basins, would establish the regulatory and institutional
frameworks to formulate and implement efficient, rational and sustainable water resources management
policies and plans by: (i) strengthening State institutions, and Basin and Local User Organizations; (ii)
introducing mechanism to promote efficient and rational resource use and allocation, includig tariffs,
taxes, transferable use rights etc.; (iii) implementing a monitoring and information network; and (iv)
conducting public education programs regarding rational water resources use and conservation.
13.    The project would support: (i) water users' organizations; (ii) water resources management
decentralization; (iii) allocation and enforcement of water use rights; (iv) sustainable cost-recovery
mechanisms; and (v) construction and/or installation of storage and conveyance structures, and distribution
networks to optimize the storage, delivery, and use of potable and irrigation supplies within selected areas
of the Itapicuru river basin. The project would strengthen the entities involved in environmental and water
resources control throughout the State government. Finally, the project would develop an institutional
prototype for all the River Basins within Bahia, with concepts which could be applicable to other States
within Brazil.
14.    Environmental issues: Environmental issues would be specifically represented by SEPLANTEC
in the CIRH, and by CRA and DDF in the COREH. In addition, with the CIRH authorization, COREH
could call upon the participation of IBAMA or any other federal entity involved in environmental,
sanitation and water resources issues. An environmental specialist would be a member of the permanent
professional staff of the SRH's Project Management Unit, with direct responsibility for project
administration. The environmental specialist would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of
project environmental impact and in the effective implementation of all necessary mitigative measures.
15.    Expected Environmental Impacts. The expected environmental impacts of the Water Resources
Management Component would be to:
*  strengthen State institutions, and Basin and Local User Organizations to effectively manage water
resources in the State of Bahia, in a financially and environmentally sustainable manner;



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 40
Country: Brazil                                               Bahia Water Resources Management Project
*  assure stakeholder involvement in water resources management and educate the public of the value of
water resources and the importance of water conservation, through rational use and control of water
pollutants;
*  within the three priority river basins, establish an institutional structure to: (i) enhance and stabilize
water supplies; (ii) manage infrastructure A, O&M; (iii) promote sound environmental approaches and
water quality standards; and (iv) encourage efficient water usage, through allocation and enforcement
of water rights, conflict mediation, tariffs and user education programs; and
*  allocate water rights which would: (i) allow better monitoring and control of water pollutants; (ii)
represent the first step towards the establishment of water market; and (iii) secure minimum flow water
rights for environmental purposes.
Part C: Resettlement Plan
16. The Resettlement Plan (RP), endorsed by the State Govermnent, is designed to mitigate the negative
effects the dam construction would have on the lives of the households whose properties (in part or whole)
are located in the area and the periphery of the area to be flooded by the reservoir and the construction sites
of the dam and any related works, such as access roads, power lines, etc. The Plan would provide
assistance to restore or improve their living conditions and social lives in the shortest possible time. The
Plan ensures the improvement or maintenance of the affected household's housing conditions, level of
income and agricultural production, and access to social services, including health and education. In
addition, the Plan offers the population a choice of compensation options from which to choose.
17. The Itapicuru River Basin, one of the largest river basins in the State of Bahia, encompasses 45
municipalities, with more than 1.19 million inhabitants, more than 10 percent of the State's population.
The Basin, more than 90 percent of which is in the semi-arid region, includes the Itapicuru, Itapicuru-A,u,
Itapicuru-Mirim and Tucano Rivers, as well as over 30 reservoirs.
18. The total population would include 213 families with 863 people, about 45 percent of whom are under
18 years old. On the basis of a survey conducted of 167 of the affected properties (90 percent of the
affected properties), the affected population is extremely poor, with 85 percent of the heads of households
earning less than one SMM; dependent upon agriculture as its primary source of livelihood; relatively
stable, with 79 percent of the household heads having lived in their present residence for more than 5 years
and 51 percent of whom have lived there for more than 20 years; and uneducated, with only 3 percent
having completed elementary school.
19. To ensure that the affected households are fully informed of the implications of the dam construction
and the options available to them, State Rural Engineering Company, (Companhia de Engenharia Rural de
Bahia, CERB) established a permanent office in Ponto Novo. In addition, teams of social workers were
sent to discuss with the affected households, the communities and the municipal leaders. At these meetings
the affected population provided valuable input into setting equitable and acceptable compensation
package options. The CERB's field team has conducted three formal meetings to explain to the affected
communities the likely implications of the dam construction. In May 1997, with the State having given its
formal endorsement to the Resettlement Plan, CERB began to organize additional meetings with the
communities to be held throughout the coming months to discuss the specific details of the compensation
options. It is very important at these meetings that the communities can appreciate the economic
implications of the options offered. For this reason, CERB is considering constructing a farm house
prototype and bringing the communities to the proposed resettlement site.
20.    Households could choose between a range of in-kind replacement/improvement of their farm and
residence or the cash indemnification. The compensation packages provide a sliding subsidy, over and
above the assessed value of the property, ranging from 50% for the poorest households to 10% for the
highest income households, over and above the estimated market value of the affected properties, including
land, infrastructure, and production. As the value of the indemnification packages were estimated to
compensate the households sufficiently to be able to replace these assets, depreciation factors were not
applied. In addition, indemnification was to cover not only the loss of property experienced by the



Project Appraisal Docwment                                                             Page 41
Country: Brazil                                               Bahia Water Resources Management Prjet
households, but to compensate them for intangible losses resulting from the resettlement, such as
disruptions in social patterns and associations. There is a floor value to ensure that those households with
essentially no assets can acquire a small farm in the vicinity.
21. The affected households were categorized into four groups:
Household Group I    totally affected
Household Group 2    partially affected and be left with more than 5 ha unaffected
Household Group 3    partially affected and be left with less than 5 ha unaffected
Household Group 4    farmland is rented and would be totally or partially affected.
22. As a minimum, households in Groups I and 3 would be offered:
*  reseftlement to the farm model with full title to a 5 ha of agricultural land, of which 2 ha would be
irrigated, with a residence and shed, serviced with water and a septic tank; or
*  sufficient compensation to be able to purchase equivalent property in the region: This would have as a
minimum base level, R$7,000 for urban resettlement and R$ 12,000 for rural resettlement.
23. Those in Group 2 could choose to:
*  remain in their original sites and receive compensation for the land lost and/or affected;
*  remain at their original site and participate in collective irrigation program to be established under the
project;
*   be resettled to the model farm; or
*  be compensated for the value of their entire original site.
24. Those in Group 4 would be guaranteed access to equivalent or better land through resettlement. Those
with this right would be those households which had been registered as occupants prior to June 30, 1997.
25. The State has identified an appropriate site and would acquire the site under a decree of social interest
(decreto de interesse social). The site would consist of up to 540 ha, currently owned by three, fully
documented, proprietors and is completely within the bounds of the project. It is located 2 km from Ponto
Novo and has a major road running along its eastern boundary. Each family resettled under the project
would receive 5 ha of irrigable farm land, of which 2 ha would be fully equipped with a pressurized
irrigation network, a 58 m2 residence, with ruming water and sanitation and a store house. The total cost
of the farm with house option, infrastructure for which would be constructed by or contracted by the State
through CERB, is an estimated R$26,000 and would be financed by the Bank loan.
26. The Resettlement Plan would provide: (i) legal assistance to review existing land documentation and
provide valid land titles; (ii) extension services to help farmers effectively make the transition from dry to
irrigated farming; (iii) training in O&M of water infrastructure; and (iv) assistance to strengthen
community associations.
27. The Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto (UGP) of the Superintendencia de Recursos Hidricos
(SRH) of the Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos Saneamento e Habita,co (SRHSH) would be responsible for
the project and as such for the successful implementation of the Resettlement Plan. The Companhia de
Engenharia Rural da Bahia (CERB), the entity responsible for the construction activities related to the
Ponto Novo, would also be responsible for the implementation of the Resettlement Plan. In this regard, a
formal agreement between CERB and SRHSH would identify the specific institutional responsibilities.
CERB, would among other things, facilitate inter-institutional coordination among the various agencies
associated with the execution of the Plan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 42
County: Brazil                                                     Bahia Water Resources Management Project
28. To execute its responsibilities, CERB has appointed an Executive Manager for Resettlement, reporting
directly to CERB's President. The Manager is supported by an in-field inter-disciplinary team, which
includes a sociologist, a lawyer, and agronomist and social workers. In addition, a small team in CERB's
Salvador office would provide additional managerial support to the execution of the Plan.
29. To ensure that social infrastructure constructed for the resettled population would be operational,
assurances, by means of formal agreements, would be sought from the relevant institutions, such as the
Secretaries of Health and Education, as well as the Municipal government, to provide sufficient personnel,
operational materials and service. Such services would be provided through public entities and private
finns and the conditions of the delivery of these services would be specified in contracts with CERB and/or
a private firm contracted to provide and/or overview such services for the project.
30. Beginning in April, 1997, inter-institutional coordination would begin, through meetings with the
entities related to the implementation of the Plan would be convened at least monthly throughout the
resettlement process. These would be conducted primarily by CERB. Also. the CERB legal assistance
program would begin validation and documentation of the tenure and legal status of the affected
households would begin and continue throughout the following year. This process would be led by the
CERB legal office in Ponto Novo. The consultative process with the affected communities, conducted by
CERB contracted social workers as well as by contracted private finns specialized in resettlement activities
would continue.
31. In June/July 1997, the State would, by virtue of the decree of social interest, complete the process of
acquiring the resettlement site and documenting the transfer. With respect to the construction of the farm
with house option, after acquiring the resettlement site, CERB would (i) receive the required environmental
permits for construction activities, (ii) prepare the final designs for the civil works; (iii) issue the bids for
tender for construction contractors; (iv) award the contracts; and (iv) supervise the works. CERB would
begin the process for the development of social infrastructure in August 1997. This would involve the
formal agreement with the relevant entity regarding complementary material and personnel to operate the
facilities; complete the civil work design in collaboration with the relevant institution; issuance of bids for
tender; and the supervision of the construction activities. In the early stages, training and technical
assistance would be required to help the communities appreciate the social and economic implications of
the options being offered to them. This is especially needed as many may not be fully aware of the
medium to long term income streams related to the farm with house option. Prior to actual resettlement
activities, monitoring and evaluation would begin to ensure there is adequate base line data concerning the
affected households. Final Evaluation would be conducted with the completion of the Resettlement Plan.
In addition, continuous M&E would be conducted as part of the Project's overall M&E.
Cost and Funding Sources
(R$ 1,000,00)
i~~~~~ .     - ..  ....     .       T '      .      ':: ....         '                  ..  :.   -: .  .. ....
~~~~~~~~~~~.           1. .              .    .....    ........ ..... .............. ,.  6  .,:,., ......  ' ...
Item                                                end Bank            State~~~~~~tm    --j v..........
-ash pnye,t
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :                                  .     E---:. .i........... - 
,,h                                   J,-76e  -:  ;i; .g                                        ..........
icuItural nputs & Ma hn e                 E 3. 8                                   72 
"$"u!g .!                . !.. ..ii ..e-s  .        . i*.... 121.  j         -      j
Comnity Infastuctre                        -_____-______
Total                                  5,030                 2,470                2,60



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 43
Country: Brazil                                                Bahi Water Resources MUnagement Project
Annex 9
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
_ _     _     _    _     _     _     _              Planned                 Achal 
A. Project Budget (US$000)                                300.0                     280.6
B. Project Schedule                                   __ :_ _ __
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                 15                       21
First Bank mission (identification)                      09/1995                  09/17/1995
Appraisal mission departure                              05/1996                  03/31/1997:
Negotiations                                             05/1996               07/14-18/1997
Date of Effectiveness                                    12/1997      
Prepared by: The Water Resources Directorate (SRH)
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant, TA funds from the on-going Irrigation Sub-sector Project (Ln.
2950 BR)
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Peter Wittenberg, (Task Manager), Luiz Gabriel
Azevedo, Larry Simpson (LCSES); Alberto Ninio (Legal); as well as Pablo Anguita, Alvaro Soler and
Anne Marie del Castillo (FAO/CP), George Tobar



Project Appraisal Docwnent                                                     Pa 44
Country: Brazil                                         Bahia Water ResourCes Management Proje
Annex 10
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Proposta de Metodologia para Elaboragao do Piano Nacional de Recursos Hidricos, SRH,
1996
Bahia, Plano Estadual de Irrigacao, Secretaria de Agricultura, Irriga,cao e Reforma Agriria,
Governo da Bahia
TUCANO, CERB, Govemo da Bahia
Programa Plurianual de Irriga,ao, 1995-98, Govemo da Bahia, 1995
Sistema Ponto Novo, Plano de Reassentamento, Vol. I & II, SRH, Bahia, Maio 1997
Projeto de Cooperacao Tecnica - PCT, SRH/RGN, 1996
Plano de Monitoramento Hidrometeorol6gico de Bacias Hidrograficas, SRH, Bahia, 1996
Programa de Qualidade das Aguas da Barragem Pedra do Cavalo e da Bacia do Rio Subae,
SRH, Bahia, 1996
TUCANO, Custos Globais, SRH, Bahia
Gerenciamento dos Recursos Hidricos e Desenvolvimento Sustentavel no Semi-Arido
Baiano, COFIEX, Carta Consulta
Plano Diretor de Recursos Hidricos, Bacia do Rio Paraguacu, SRH, Bahia, 1993
----    Bacia do Reconcavo Sul, SRH, Bahia, 1993
----    Bacia do Rio Grande, SRH, Bahia, 1993
Projeto de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hidricos do Estado da Bahia, Fase Identificacao, Vol
1, Tomo 1, Geohidro, 1995
----    Analise de Alguns Aspectos do PDRH, Bacia do Rio Itapicuru, Vol II, Tomo 1,
Geohidro, 1995
----    Analise de Alguns Aspectos do PDRH, Bacia dos Rios Verde e Jacare, Vol II, Tomo
11, Geohidro, 1995
----   Fase de Preparacao, Bacia do Rio Itapicuru, Sintese, Vol l.A, Geohidro, 1996
----   Fase de PreparacAo, Bacia dos Rios Verde e Jacare, Sintese, Vol 1.B, Geohidro,
1996
----   Fase de Preparaco, Bacia do Alto Paraguacu, Sintese, Vol 1.C, Geohidro, 1996
Projeto de Gest&o de Recursos Hidricos da Bahia, Avaliacao dos Aspectos Institucionais
Visando a Implementacao do Projeto, SRH, Bahia, 1996



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 45
Country: Brazil                                         Bahia Water Resources Management Project
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Brazil: Managing Environmental Pollution in the State of Rio de Janeiro, Vol I & II, LAC,
1996
Brazil. A Poverty Assessment, Vol I & II, Report No. 14323-BR, 1995
Brazil. The Management of Agriculture, Rural Development and Natural Resources, Report
No. 11783-BR, 1994
A Review of World bank Experience in Irrigation, Report No. 13676, 1994
Brazil. Management of Water Resources, LAC Economic Notes, 1995
Portfolio Improvement Program, Irrigation Subsector, AGR, 1996
Water Resources Management, A World Bank Policy Paper, 1993
Peer Review Documents
Department PCD Review Meeting Minutes
Bank-wide PCD Review Meeting Minutes
C. Other
Acta de la Primera Reunion Nacional Sobre Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental, CONAMA
Principios de Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental, CONAMA
Modernization Program for the Laboratory of Hidrometeorology of the State of Bahia, Paulo
Nobre, June 1996
Proyecto de Gestion de los Recursos Hidricos, Corporacion de Cuenca del Rio Bio Bio,
Informe Final, Vol 1-4, Oct. 1995
---    Primer Informe Intermedio, Vol. 1 & 2, Oct. 1995
---    Segundo Informe Intermedio, Vol I & 2, Oct. 1995
Borrower Budget Estimates
D. Project Supporting Documents
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
Technical Assessment of the Infrastructure Component
Institutional Arrangements
Water Management Issues in Bahia
Bahia Water Sector Policy Letter, August, 1997
Economic and Financial Analysis
Lessons Learned
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 46
Country: Brazil                                                            Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Annex 11
Part A
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(as of July 31, 1997)
Difference Between
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             actual
Loan or   Fisca                                                                                                                  and expected
Project ID    Credit        1             Borrower                  Purpose             IBRD        IDA      Cancellation  Undisburse    Disbursements a/
No.      Year                                                                                      s              d
Number of Closed Loans/credits:
190
BR-PE-6495  L34805         19    GOB BRAZI                    NATL IND POLLUTN             0.00        0.00            0.00          0.00                    0.00
BR-PE-6431  L28100        1987   FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF          SKILLS FORMATION            74.50        0.00           58.90           .35                   59.25
BRAZI
BR-PE-6360  L29500        1988   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL         IRR SUB-SECTOR             195.00        0.00           26.00           .72                   26.72
BR-PE-6414  L30430        1989   COMGAS, SAO PAULO            NTRL GAS DIST               94.00        0.00            0.00         14.41                   14.41
BR-PE-6370  L30130        1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF   NE IRRI JAIBA                   71.00        0.00            0.00          7.50                    7.50
BR
BR-PE-6446  L31730        1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF   NAT ENVIRONMT                  117.00        0.00            0.00         37.93                   37.93
BR
BR-PE-6453  L31700        1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF   NE IRRIG I                     210.00        0.00           69.00         54.44                  123.44
BR
BR-PE-6473  L31600        1990   STATE OF SANTA CATARINA  LND MGMT II-S.                  33.00        0.00            0.00          9.48                    9.08
CATAR
BR-PE-6403  L31350        1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF   NE BASIC HLTH SRV              267.00        0.00           50.00         22.20                   72.20
BR                          II
BR-PE-6442  L28831        1990   ELETROBRAS                   ITAPARICA                  100.00        0.00            0.00          3.21                   35.21
BR-PE-6492  L33760        1991   PETROBRAS   BRAZI            HYDROCARBN                 260.00        0.00            0.00         30.02                   30.02
TRNSP/PRO
BR-PE-6364  L33750        1991   STATE OF SAO PAULO           INNOV BASIC ED             245.00        0.00            0.00       103.72                   102.72
BR-PE-6505  L34920        1992  GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL          MATO GROSSO NAT            205.00        0.00            0.00        99.10                    94.10
RES
BR-PE-6379  L34570        1992   GOB BRAZI                    METRO                      126.00        0.00            0.00        15.03                    15.03



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 47
Country: Brazil                                                       Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Difference Between
Original Amount in US$ Millions                        actual
Loan or  Fisca                                                                                                        and expected
Project ID   Credit      1            Borrower                Purpose           IBRD        IDA    Cancellation  Undisburse    Disbursements a/
No.     Year                                                                              s             d
TRANSP.SPAULO
BR-PE-6368  L34420      1992  GOVERNMENT                WATER SECTOR             250.00       0.00           0.00      101.24                  89.44
MODERNI
BR-PE-6547  L36330      1993  FED.REP.OF BRAZIL         METRO TRANSP. RIO        128.50       0.00           0.00       56.11                  51.11
BR-PE-6427  L36040      1993  MIN. OF EDUCATION   N    NE BASIC EDUC II          212.00       0.00           0.00       93.87                  61.87
BR-PE-6540  L35540      1993  MINAS GERAIS ST.          WTR Q/PLN(MINAS          145.00       0.00           0.00       70.83                  70.83
GERA
BR-PE-6378  L35480      1993  STATE GOVERNMENTS         STATE HWY MGMT            38.00       0.00          18.00       11.68                  -8.32
BR-PE-6378  L35470      1993  STATE GOVERNMENTS         STATE HWY MGMT            50.00       0.00           0.00       10.11                   5.55
BR-PE-6541  L35050      1993  S.PAULO/PARANA STS.       WTR                      117.00       0.00           0.00       62.30                 -54.70
Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)
BR-PE-6541  L35040      1993  S.PAULO/PARANA STS.       WTR                      119.00       0.00           0.00       51.02                 -67.98
Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)
BR-PE-6541  L35030      1993  S.PAULO/PARANA STS.       WTR                        9.00       0.00           0.00        6.91                   6.98
Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)
BR-PE-6522  L37670      1994  ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO      ESP.SANTO WATER          154.00       0.00           0.00      108.42                  59.02
BR-PE-6558  L37660      1994  REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL        PARANA BASIC EDUC         96.00       0.00           0.00       58.82                  15.32
BR-PE-6543  L37330      1994  GOVERNMENT                M. GERAIS BASIC          150.00       0.00           0.00       89.89                 23.89
EDUC
BR-PE-6555  L37150      1994  STATE GOVTS               STE HWY MGT II            79.00       0.00          18.00       38.53                 -22.47
BR-PE-6555  L37140      1994  STATE GOVTS               STE HWY MGT II            87.00       0.00           0.00       15.10                 -71.90
BR-PE-6555  L37130      1994  STATE GOVTS               STE HWY MGT II            54.00       0.00          18.00       24.83                 22.15
BR-PE-6452  L36630      1994  MINISTRY OF EDUCATION   NE BASIC EDUC III          206.60       0.00           0.00      106.24                 59.16
BR-PE-6546  L36590      1994  GOVERNMENT                AIDS CONTROL             160.00       0.00           0.00       33.65                  -2.05
BR-PE-6524  L36390      1994  ST.OF MINAS GERAIS        MINAS                    150.00       0.00           0.00       56.59                 32.59
MNC.DEVELOPMT
BR-PE-      L39190      1995  GOVT OF BRAZIL            RURAL POV.-SERGIPE        36.00       0.00           0.00       26.37                  2.37
38885
BR-PE-      L39180      1995  GOVT OF BRAZIL            RURAL POV.- CEARA         70.00       0.00           0.00       63.85                 13.85
38884
BR-PE-      L39170      1995  GOVT OF BRAZIL            RURAL POV. (BAHIA)       105.00       0.00           0.00       76.95                   7.95
35717
BR-PE-6564  L39160      1995  FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL       BELO H M.TSP              99.00       0.00           0.00       88.40                 27.90
BR-PE-      L39150      1995  FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL   RECIFE M.TSP              102.00       0.00           0.00       98.72                 28.72
38882
BR-PE-6436  L37890      1995  STATE OF CEARA  ZIL       CEARA UR.DV/WATER        140.00       0.00           0.00      118.65                 50.65
CO
BR-PE-      L40600      1996  STATE OF PARANA            (PR)R.POVERTY           175.00       0.00           0.00      175.00                 33.90
37828
BR-PE-6554  L40470      1996  FED. REP. OF BRAZIL       HLTH SCTR REFORM         300.00       0.00           0.00      272.75                 22.75
BR-PE-      L40460      1996  FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF  RAILWAYS                   350.00       0.00           0.00      192.15                  -7.85
40028                         BR                        RESTRUCTURG
BR-PE-6512  L39240      1996  CVRD                      ENV/CONS(CVRD)            50.00       0.00           0.00       36.75                   3.10
BR-PE-      L41900      1997                            CEARA WTR PILOT            9.60       0.00           0.00        9.60                   0.00
46052
BR-PE-      L41890      1997  THE STATE OF MATO         MT STATE PRIV.            45.00       0.00           0.00       45.00                   0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 48
Country: Brazii                                                          Bahia Water Resources Management ProJect
Difference Between
Original Amount in US$ Millions                          actual
Loan or   Fisca                                                                                                            and expected
Project ID   Credit       1             Borrower                 Purpose            IBRD        IDA     Cancellation  Undisburse    Disbursements a/
No.      Year                                                                                 s             d
48870                           GROSSO
BR-PE-6532  L41880       1997  FEDERAL GOVERNMENT          FED HWY DECENTR           300.00       0.00           0.00       300.00                    0.00
BR-PE-       L41690      1997  FED.REP.OF BRAZIL           AG TECH DEV.               60.00       0.00           0.00        60.00                    5.40
43873
BR-PE-      L41650       1997  RIO GRANDE DO SUL           RGS HWY MGT                70.00       0.00           0.00        70.00                    0.00
34578
BR-PE-      L41480       1997  STATE OF RGS                RGS LAND                  100.00       0.00           0.00       100.00                    0.00
43868                                                      MGT/POVERTY
BR-PE-6475  L41470       1997  FED. REP. OF BRAZIL         LAND RFM PILOT             90.00       0.00           0.00        90.00                    0.00
BR-PE-6562  L41400       1997  STATE OF BAHIA              BAHIA MUN.DV              100.00       0.00           0.00       100.00                    5.00
BR-PE-      L41390       1997  STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO   RGS ST.REFORM                125.00       0.00           0.00       125.00                   50.00
39196                           SU
BR-PE-      L41220       1997  STATE OF PERNAMBUCO         R.POVERTY(PE)              39.00       0.00           0.00        39.00                    5.70
42566
BR-PE-       L41210      1997  STATE OF PIAUI              (PIAUI)R.POVERTY           30.00       0.00           0.00        30.00                    4.00
43871
BR-PE-      L41200       1997  STATE OF RGN                R.POVERTY(RGN)             24.00       0.00           0.00        24.00                    3.00
38896
BR-PE-       L42110      1998  STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO  RI ST.PRIV.                  250.00       0.00           0.00       250.00                    0.00
39197
Total                                                                              6,872.20       0.00         257.90    3,786.44
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              2,827.86           14,946.53          17,774.39
of which has been repaid:                327.19          11,664.58           11,991.77
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              6,287.11            3,378.87            9,665.98
Amount sold                     :                0.00               45.83               45.83
Of which repaid                               0.00               45.83              45.83
Total Undisbursed               :            3,786.44               96.92            3,883.36
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter base:
system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio
Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
c. Following the FY94 ARPP, "Implementation Progress" will be reported here.



Project Apprusai Document                                                    Pae 49
Country: Braal                                         Baha Water Resources Managenlent Poject
Annex 11
Part A
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of April 30, 1997
(US$ Million)
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval          Company          Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1966/69/89          Celucat                 1.15       0.00       0.00     0.00   1.15     0.00     0.00     0.00
1973/8/83           CODEMIN                 0.00       4.34       0.00     0.00   0.00     4.34     0.00     0.00
1975/96             Oxiteno NE             30.00       0.00       0.00     0.00  30.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1980/87            Ipiranga                 0.00       6.32       0.00      0.00   0.00    6.32     0.00     0.00
1980/88             OPP                      .93       1.64       0.00      .40    .93      1.64    0.00      .40
1980/92             DENPASA                  .44       1.00       .12       0.00    .44     .96      .05     0.00
1981                Brasilpar               0.00        .04       0.00     0.00   0.00      .04     0.00     0.00
1982/84/86          PISA                    0.00       3.90       0.00     0.00   0.00     3.90     0.00     0.00
1982/86             Cimento Caue            0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1983                SOCOCO                  0.00       0.00       2.50     0.00   0.00     0.00     2.50     0.00
1987/92/96          MBR                    14.55       0.00      10.00     17.70  14.55    0.00    10.00    17.70
1987/96             Perdigao               35.00      10.00       0.00    20.00  35.00    10.00     0.00    20.00
1987/96/97          Duratex                22.14       0.00       0.00    78.35  22.14     0.00     0.00    78.35
1987/97             SP Alpargatas          26.60       0.00       5.00      .40  22.30     0.00     5.00      .40
1989                COPENE                  9.09       0.00       0.00      0.00   9.09    0.00     0.00     0.00
1989                ELUMA                   1.00       0.00       4.00     0.00   1.00     0.00     4.00     0.00
1989                Politeno Linear         4.50       0.00       0.00     0.00   4.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1990                ENGEPOL                 1.75       0.00       0.00     0.00   1.75     0.00     0.00     0.00
1990                Ripasa                  8.57       5.00       0.00     0.00   8.57     5.00     0.00     0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 50
Country: Brazil                                        Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval          Company         Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1990/91/92         Bahia Sul              20.71       20.97      0.00     15.00  20.71    20.97     0.00    15.00
1991               Bradesco-AL            26.03        0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1991               Bradesco-Eucatex        7.50        0.00      0.00      0.00   7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1991               Bradesco-Petrofl        7.50        0.00      0.00      0.00   7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1991               Rhodia-Ster             11.43       5.95      0.00      0.00   11.43    5.95     0.00     0.00
1991               Bradesco-Bahia          6.75        0.00      0.00      0.00   6.75     0.00     0.00     0.00
1991               Bradesco-Romi           2.78        0.00      0.00      0.00   2.78     0.00     0.00     0.00
1992               Brazil Inv. Fund        0.00        3.00      0.00      0.00   0.00     3.00     0.00     0.00
1992               CRP-Caderi              0.00        2.00      0.00      0.00   0.00     .75      0.00     0.00
1992/93            TRIKEM                  0.00       12.86      0.00      0.00   0.00    12.86     0.00     0.00
1993               BACELL                  13.50      10.70      0.00     30.60   13.50    10.70    0.00    30.60
1993               Coteminas               0.00        4.00      0.00      0.00   0.00     4.00     0.00     0.00
1993               CEBRACTEX               3.00        0.00      0.00      0.00   3.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1993               Macedo Alimentos        19.25       0.00      0.00      0.00   19.25    0.00     0.00     0.00
1993               Votorantim              16.86       0.00      0.00      1.43  16.86     0.00     0.00     1.43
1993/96            CEVAL                  58.57       10.00      10.00    131.43  58.57    10.00    10.00   131.43
1994               GAVEA                   10.63       0.00      5.50      0.00   10.63    0.00     5.50     0.00
1994               GP Capital              0.00       19.47      0.00      0.00   0.00    18.67     0.00     0.00
1994               Para Pigmentos         30.00        9.00      0.00     35.00  25.50     8.14     0.00    29.75
1994               Portobello              17.00       5.00      0.00      0.00   14.00    5.00     0.00     0.00
1994/95/97         Sadia                  54.00       10.00      10.00    212.44  54.00    10.00    10.00   212.44
1994/96            CHAPECO                25.00        0.00      0.00      5.00  25.00     0.00     0.00     5.00
1994/96             S.A.I.C.C.             0.00        7.85      6.87      0.00   0.00     7.70     6.87     0.00
1995               Bradesco-Hering         7.50        0.00      0.00      0.00   7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1995               Brahma - BRA           35.00        0.00      0.00     98.40  35.00     0.00     0.00    98.40
1995               Cambuhy/MC             24.38        0.00      0.00      0.00  24.38     0.00     0.00     0.00
1995               Lojas Americana        28.00        0.00      5.00     20.00  28.00     0.00     5.00    20.00
1995               LATASA - Brazil         18.33       0.00      0.00      4.00   18.33    0.00     0.00     4.00
1995               Politeno Ind.           19.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   19.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1995               Rhodiaco/PTA           30.00        0.00      0.00     30.00  30.00     0.00     0.00    30.00
1995/96            Globocabo              35.00       18.06      0.00    118.00  35.00    18.06     0.00   118.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 51
Country: Brazil                                          Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval          Company           Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996                Banco Bradesco          40.00        0.00      0.00     60.00   0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                Mallory                  8.00        3.96      0.00      0.00   8.00      3.96     0.00     0.00
1996                TIGRE                   25.00        0.00      5.00     23.50  25.00      0.00     5.00    23.50
1996                Banco Liberal           10.00        0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996/97             Lightel                 25.00       18.17      0.00      0.00  25.00    18.17      0.00     0.00
1997                Samarco                 18.00        0.00      0.00      16.00   0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                Sucorrico               15.00        0.00      0.00       0.00   15.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                824.44      193.23      63.99    917.65  718.6   190.13    63.92   836.40
1
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic
1996                AGUAS LIMEIRA           17.00        1.00      0.00     23.00
1998                BANCO ICATU             30.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                BOMPRECO                25.00        0.00      5.00      0.00
1997                COPESUL BLINC.           0.00        0.00      0.00     45.00
1997                COPESUL EXPANS.         40.00        0.00      0.00    135.00
1997                CTBC                    35.00        0.00      0.00    150.00
1996                CTBC (LIGHTEL 1)        25.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
1996                GLOBOCABO II             0.00        0.00      0.00      38.00
1997                GUILMAN-                30.00        0.00      0.00      90.00
AMORIM
1997                IPIRANGA                35.00        0.00      5.00    150.00
EXPANS.
1997                IPIRANGA RI              0.00        .32       0.00      0.00
1997                NOVA DUTRA              35.00        0.00      0.00     70.00
1997                NOVA DUTRA               0.00        0.00      0.00      10.00
BLINC
1996                OXITENO/ETHYLO           0.00        5.00      0.00      0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 52
Country: Brail                                            Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval           Company          Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997                SP ALPARGATAS II          0.00        0.00       0.00     30.00
1997                UNIBANCO                 50.00        0.00       0.00      0.00
LIVESTO
1997                WENTEX                   15.00       10.00       0.00     20.00
Total Pending Commitment:        337.00       16.32      10.00    761.00



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                                                    Page 53
Country: Brazil                                                               Bahia Water Resources Management Project
Annex 12
BRAZIL
Water Resources Management Project
Brazil at a glance                                                            417/97
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America  middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  income     Development diamond'
Population mid-1995 (millions)                      159.2       478      438
GNP per capita 1995 (US$)                           3,640     3,320    4,260                Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                             579.8      1.588    1.868
Average annual growth, 1990.95
Population (%)                                        1.5        1.7     1.7      GNP                            Gross
Labor force I%)                                       1.6       2.3      2.0      per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailable since 1989)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty headcount index (% of populatfon)
Urban population (% of total populaaon)                78        74       73
Life tapectancy at birth (years)                       67        69       69
Infantmortality (per 1,000 live births)                44        37       35               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of chWidren under 5)            1i
Acess to safe water (% ofpopulaton)                    92        80       86
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    17        13       13                .razi
Gros primary enrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)    111       110      107
Male                                                                                ___Upper-middle-income group
Fernale
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1996    1996
GDP (billions USS)                          121.8    222.9    716.9    750.3      Economk ros'
Gross domestic investmentlGDP               26.8    19.2       20.1        5              Openness .economy
Exports of goods and serices/GDP             7.5    12.2        6.7      6.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  22.9    24.4        19.2    18.2
Gross national savings/GDP                  21.5     19.0       18.0    16.2
Current account balance/GDP                  -5.8    -0.2       -2.5    -3.2
Interest paymentslGDP                        1.7      3.3        1.2      ..    Savings                      Investment
Total debtWGDP                              22.4    46.5        22.2
Total debt serviceiexports                  43.5    39.1        39.8
Present value of deWtlGDP                      ..      ..      21.2
Present value of debtVexports                 ..       ..    270.7                            indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                    Brazil
GDP                                 3.1       1.6     4.1       3.1      5.3               Upper-ridde4ncome grup
GNP per capita                      0.2    -0.7    10.4         1.2      4.0
Exportsofgoodsandservices           10.5     6.3    -1.4        6.1      8.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985       1996    1998
(% of GDP)                                                                        Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                 12.1     11.5       14.1     14.2     10
Industry                                    40.2    45.3       35.9    35.6        s
Manufacturing                              30.3    33.7       23.4    23.2       0
Services                                    47.7    43.1       49.9    50.2                          93   94   95   95
.5
Private consumption                         66.5    65.8       64.9    65.7    .10
General govemment consumption               10.6      9.9       15.9    16.1                     GDI   -   GDP
importsofgoodsandservices                   11.5      7.1       7.6      7.9                 -
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual groth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and imports (%N
Agriculture                                  4.3      2.8       4.9      3.3      40
Industry                                     3.0    -0.6        2.1      2.2
Manufacturing                               2.6    -1.0        2.1      2.2     20/                         /
Services                                     2.9      2.9       5.3      3.7
Privateconsumption                           3.0      2.4       11.1     4.1     0o
General govemment consumption                1.2      0.6       2.0      0.8                               94   95   so
Gross domestic investment                    -2.9     0.1       9.4      0.0    .20
Imports of goods and services                -4.0    10.0      36.8      5.9                   Eioft    -.       t
Gross national product                       2.5      1.5       11.9     2.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                            Page 54
CDmtzy: Brazil                                                                                            Bahia Water Resources Management Project
STRUCTURE of the ECONOM Y
1975      1985      1994      1995        Growth rates of output and
(16of GDP)
AgdIultur.                                        .1       11.5       27        128       o 
Industry                                         402       45.3      387       38.4       s
M anufacturlng                                 30.3      33.7       25.2      24.8
Sem-ites                                         47.7      431       48J.      48.9                                  93    94      5
Private consumption                              66.5      65.8       611       62.1     -o
Gene- agovernment.on.umption                     106        9.9      1t.0      t6.8    _      _    _      
Imports ofgoods and non-fatorserices              11.5      7.1       .65       7.6                        O     *--OGDP
(averaos ann.alg,owthJ                      19785-64 19885-9        1994      1988       G rowth rates of exports and
Agric.lture                                       42        2.3        7.6      5.9       40
Industry                                          3.0      -0.5        7.1      2.0
M anfa.turIng                                   2.6      -0.9        S.5       16       20
SerIces                                           2.9       3.0       4.4       5.7
Pdrvt. consuonption                               43        19        72        7.9        0
Genera governmentconsumption                      0.8       23        -10       2.4               so    0            0 3    94    95
Gross domestic Inv-sfmont                        -32        0.2        8.5      9.2      -2-
Imports ofgood. and non-factor ervicos           -3.7       9.0       15.4     37.3
Gross nsationalproduct                            2.5       17        62        3.8              -E      tpOt            mpors
Note 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds shoowfour keyindicstors in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing,the diamond will
be Incomplete.
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNIM ENT FINANCE
1S76     1986       1184      1SS 
Domestic   resInflation  %)
(%change)                                                                                3 005
Consumarprices                                   29.1    226.9    22698.6      60.0      o.oc
Implicit GOP deflator                            33.9     231.7   2284.0       67.4
Gosvernm.nt finance                                                                       .
(%ofGDP)
Cfrrentrevenue'                                                      24.6      29.7                 o    91   92    us    94   9t
Cuffentbudgetbalance'                                                 52       04
Overallsurplus/deficiP                                                1t3       -5.0                      GDPdf.  --0-CPI
TRADE
(millions USS)                                 1975      1985       1994      lS95        Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total eports (fob)                                      25,638    43,563   46,506        s0.000
Coffee                                                  2,607      t,942    2,850
Otherfood                                               2,545      1t51      2,10|
M anufacturec                                          13,356    26,844    27,0W1
Totalimports(cif)                                        13,153    33,233    49,663       000          L
Food                                                         ,     4,740     7,500
Fuel and energy                                         6,176      4,695     5,103
Capital go ods                                          2,480      11M906    18,200
Exportpriceindex (1987=100)                                 97         M16       21              Cs   t0  91   92   53  9<   .5
Import price index (1987=100)                               79        139       94a                     E.p.n.    ar nports
Terms oftrade(10987=10)                                     123        84        S2
BALANCE of PAYM ENTS
(mil.ions US$)                                                                            Current account balance to GDP rati
Exportsofgoods andnun-factorservices            9,418    27,713    44,966   47,846
Imports olg.ods and -n-f-ctor-erices           146323    16,828    36,187    03,516
Resource balance                               -4,905    10,785     8,779    -5.670
Net aftortncume                                -2,106    -11,213    -12,580   -19,246    0
Netcurrettransfers                                 0         0      2,597     3,513          a9          at   us   03   94 25
Currant acco.nt balan1e,                                                                 2
before official transfers                     -7,01M    -428      -1,203    17,404
FinsnocqgItems (net)                           5946      16342     8203    30,450
Changes In net raoerves                         1.065    -1,454    -7.000  -43,046       -4
Mfemo:
Resarves including gold(mill. US$)              4.166    tl,6t8    39,463   53J704
Converslon rate (IocafUS$)                    3.0E-12  2.3E-09        0.6       0.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1897     1985       1994      1585
(millions US$)                                                                           C.mp.stion of total debt, 1895 (milI,
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed              27,329   105t87      15t1f04   157,397                        A    C
IBRD                                          1.045    5,274       6,311    6,039                        o039 02  5
IDA                                               0        0          0         0              G
30596                 2670 
Totaldebtsemice                                 4,319     1.471      16,105   21,199                                     20419
IERD                                            98       796       1,883     1,868
ID.A                                              0        0          0         0
Ca,mposillon ofnet resource fllw
Otilcilt grants                                   9       34         69        65
Official creditors                            t,059      935      .2,116     -tl1,\
Peivaus-editorn                               4213       149       3,71?      667
Foreigndirectinvestment                       1,302     1,348     3,072      3.10O
Portlollo equlty                                 0         0      5,052     2,976                          F9EP2
World Eank prog50m
Commitments                                    536      1525       1,024      404       A -151RD                      E - gliasts,l
Dlabur.ements                                  249       765        640       638       B - IDA    D - Oth. r-Atilst .a   F - Pri-st.
Principal repayments                            26       405       1,346     1,377      C - MF                        a - Short-tsrm
Net lows                                       224       359       -706      -539
Interest payments                               72        391       537       481



