E-1 72
VOL. 1
BRAZIL
State of Bahia
Water Resources Management Project
PART A
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Part A
Evaluation of the Environmental Impact of the Ponto Novo Reservoir
Background
1.    The State of Bahia is the largest state in the Northeast, with a population of 12 million
inhabitants and an area covering over one half million km2. Bahia boasts Brazil's fifth largest
economy, with significant agricultural and industrial sectors, the latter dominated by the
petrochemical industry. Despite its economic importance, the State suffers from an incidence of
poverty almost twice the national average. Poverty is most pronounced in the rural areas, where
more than 60 percent of the population lives. Nearly three-quarters of rural heads of household
have monthly incomes under US$80, less than one minimum wage per month, and more than half
are illiterate. Less than a quarter of the rural population has access to proper sanitation facilities
and only 10 percent has reliable access to safe water.
2.    The Sao Francisco River flows through Bahia and separates the eastern two-thirds of the
state, which includes areas of small subsistence farm settlements, from the western third, marked
by larger fanners, growing soybean and other export crops. Nearly 70 percent of Bahia's land
area falls within the Northeast "drought polygon". The scarce and highly irregular rainfall which
characterizes this semi-arid region reduces crop yields and quality and their subsequent market
value. Rural poverty in the semi-arid region is correlated with these variable agro-climatic
conditions that make the region vulnerable to drought. In contrast, the area encompassing the west,
south and coastal regions, is marked by plentiful water supplies, greater rainfall and fertile soils,
and is the more productive agricultural and livestock area Nonetheless, conflicts over water use in
this area, such as that noted in the western region between hydroelectricity and irrigation, have
intensified.
3.    The abundance of water resources in Bahia, contrasted with the regional water scarcities
and water use conflicts, underlines one of the State Government's central challenges for future
economic development of the state: effective water resources management. Annual water demand
relative to total availability is not high, but water resources are unevenly distributed in both time
and location. Therefore, effective water management, by optimizing the allocation and use of
water resources throughout the State, can mitigate water conflicts stemming from competing uses
and relieve water scarcities affecting the semi-arid rural areas, problems which impinge upon
Bahia's economic development.
4.    Water resources management is nascent in the State of Bahia. The State Government
(SG) recognizes that without a comprehensive water resources management plan linked to its
investment projects, it cannot resolve the State's complex problems of water scarcity, water
VLf t  t    ta L pX, 'LA



conflicts and watershed conservation. As a first step, in 1995, the SG created the Water Resources
Directorate (Superintendencia de Recursos Hidricos, SRH), under the Secretariat of Water
Resources, Sanitation and Housing (Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos, Saneamento e Habitado,
S9YSH).N QDYis responsible for water resources planning and management, including technical
studies, inventory, and cadastre of water users, issuance of water permits, hydrologic and
meteorological monitoring, a hydrologic database and baseline studies of the major watersheds. In
addition, the SG is committed to the process of decentralizing water resources management, and
accordingly has divided the state into 13 "Water Management Regions" (Regioes Administrativas
da Agua) corresponding to its major watersheds. SRH will have a regional office (with a small
number of staff) in each region. Therefore, water users will have an open channel to SRH without
the need to go to the state capital, Salvador. The creation of regional offices will also facilitate the
issuance of water permits, the resolution of conflicts between users and the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the State's hydrologic monitoring network.
5.     At the same time, as part of a program to improve urban water supply and sanitation, an
ongoing, Bank financed water sector modernization project is, inter alia, providing institutional
strengthening to the public water company serving the urban areas. In addition, the SG is
collaborating with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to clean and protect the "Bahia de
Todos os Santos" (All-Saints Bay) in the metropolitan region of Salvador. Finally, as a result of
recent efforts, and through collaboration with public banks and the electricity company, Bahia's
water use registration and permit program now covers over 75 percent of irrigation water use.
6.     The goal of SG is to formulate a State Strategy for Water Resources Management which
would support economic and social development in Bahia through a more efficient and rational
allocation of water resources among competing uses. SRH has begun to assess water uses and
resources of its major watersheds, identifying major water conflicts and specific water resource
problems hindering regional economic growth. In the semi-arid region, for example, there are
documented ground water supplies which could be managed for irrigation, for potable water
supplies to both the rural areas and urban centers, and for other uses. In addition, the State is
evaluating procedures and incentives for promoting the resolution of water conflicts. SRH has also
started to investigate methodologies and models that can be used for the development of a system
of bulk water tariffs and for the establishment of water market mechanisms in parts of the State.
However, given the complexity of water issues and their inter-sectoral nature, the task of
formulating, implementing and enforcing sound water resources management guidelines in Bahia is
difficult and hampered by a weak institutional framework.
Project Description: Water Resources Management and Infrastructure Components
7.     The project would have two components: a) Water Resources Management Component.
This component would provide the necessary technical and financial resources to strengthen the
State, Basin and user level institutions to effectively manage water resources in Bahia. The
component would establish an institutional structure which has the technical, financial and legal
capacity to administer a bulk water distribution system which would: (i) ensure users a reliable
water supply to meet consumptive and productive needs; (ii) supervise infrastructure A, O&M; (iii)
enforce water pollution control mechanisms; and (iv) encourage efficient water usage, through
allocation and enforcement of water rights allocation, mediation of conflicts, and collection of
water tariffs. Additionally, this component would also provide training and technical assistance to
enable water users to administer, operate and maintain water infrastructure by establishing and/or
strengthening water users' committees in the three priority basins through technical assistance and



training programs, including a public information and education water resources program. To
facilitate water resources management, the component would develop and establish an integrated
hydro-meteorological information system (HMIS) for the three priority basins.
8.     The Infrastructure Component would finance the construction and rehabilitation of water
storage and distribution infrastructure in the Itapicuru River Basin. The investments would be
based on well-defined economic, technical and environmental criteria as well as social and
environmental impact assessments. All infrastructure investments would be consistent with the
Basins' Water Resources Management (WRM) Plan.
9.     Proposed System. The multi-purpose Ponto Novo reservoir, located in the Itapicuru
River basin', is designed to service: (i) the populated urban centers, including the municipalities of
Ponto Novo, Filadelfia, and surrounding towns, with increased water supply; and (ii) the rural
areas, with water for human and animal consumption, and irrigation. The dam, composed of
argillaceous soils obtained from the reservoir excavations, would measure 22.7 meters in height.
The proposed reservoir would inundate 24 km of the Itapicuru-Acu River and 11 km of the Apia
River. The reservoir, with a maximum volume of 39 million m3, would flood 1,400 her.
Table 1. Benefits of the Proposed Ponto Novo System on Urban Water Supplies
Without (Actual)    | With (Proj ected)
First stage'          Second stage'
Location                                             1/s
PontoNovo             10                    23.13                 35.75
Filadelfia            13                    21.80                 29.29
Other                 0                     0                     6.69
'Table refers to the two stages of infrastructure development of which the proposed project would
address the first.
10.    Direct benefits to be derived from the Ponto Novo dam and reservoir system include the
increase of water supplies available for the urban communities of Ponto Novo, Filadelfia and
Jacare, which have an aggregate population of 14,000. Perhaps most importantly, the system
would protect the rural population from the devastation to human health, animal life and
agricultural production caused by annual severe water scarcities and protracted periods of drought
(see Table 1).
Table 2. Benefits of the Proposed Ponto Novo System
Projected Expansion in Irrigated Area
Small Farmer Plots
Number of Plots              Size                          Total
(ha)
220                          5                             1,100
50                           10                            500
Commercial Plots
JNumber of Plots              Size                          Total
'The Itapicuru River is an intermittent river whose upper course is dry between four to six months each year.



(ha
55                          20                           1,100
20                          50                           1,000
50                          10                           500
PROJECT TOTAL                                            4,200
11.   Water for irrigation purposes would also be provided. The soils to be irrigated are Class 2
and 3, highly suitable for irrigation, having good depth and drainage. In accordance with the
Irrigation Law, half of the total area to be irrigated would be reserved for small farmers and the
rest would be sold to medium and larger commercial farmers (see Table 2). Crops to be cultivated
include beans and corn for the first years, to be gradually replaced with squash, tomatoes, peppers,
citrus, grapes, acerola, pineapple, mangos, melons and vegetables. Conventional sprinkler
irrigation would be used for the annual crops, micro-sprinkler irrigation for permanent corps and
drip irrigation for higher-valued annual crops. As required by the new State Water Law, all
irrigation systems would have to meet specified modem water efficiency standards.
12.   The reservoir would not only increase the availability of potable water and water for
irrigation, but would also have associated positive environmental effects, including: (i) increased
flora and fauna varieties; (ii) increased soil productivity; (iii) decreased extensive and
environmentally depletive agricultural practices; and (iv) improved human and animal health.
13.   Environmental Evaluation The purpose of the environmental evaluation, required by
both the State of Bahia and the World Bank, is to: (i) provide essential background information
concerning the environmental context within which the dam and reservoir would be constructed and
operated; (ii) estimate the probability and magnitude of environmental impacts related to dam
construction, reservoir filling and operation; (iii) identify appropriate mitigative activities; and (vi)
provide a preliminary design for an environmental monitoring system, specifying quantifiable and
measurable indicators which would permit the assessment and evaluation of the system's
environmental impacts. Finally, the Evaluation includes a time-frame for actions needed,
consistent with the Project's overall time-frame, and identifies the entities responsible for
implementing each activity. The evaluation was based upon the guidelines as found in the World
Bank Operational Instructions O.D. 4.01- Annex B.
14.    The State of Bahia's Engineering Company (Companhia Engenharia Rural da Bahia,
CERB), responsible for the dam construction, with its environmental team, including two
environmental specialists, an engineer and a geologist, performed an environmental assessment
based on extensive field visits and environmental research. On the basis of the Environmental
Evaluation, the Center for Environmental Resources of the State of Bahia (Centro de Recursos
Ambientais, CRA) granted CERB the Site Permit (Licenca da Localizacdo, LO) for the proposed
dam construction. CERB will present to CRA complementary studies related to the civil works,
upon which the Conselho de Prote,Co Ambiental (CEPRAM) would base its decision to issue the
Implementation Permit (Licenca de Implantacdo, LI), required to initiate the civil works.
15.    Dialogue with Local Communities and NGOs. The State has held several meetings with
the local communities to explain the implications of the proposed dam and reservoir and to receive
their feedback concerning the proposal. These meetings have been convened in the project area to
explain to the communities: (i) the Resettlement Plan and compensation options for those families



which will need to be resettled; (ii) the socio-economic impact of increased availability; and (iii)
likely environmental impacts of the proposed system. The people of these communities, victims of
severe water shortages and many of whom must rely on trucked water during the long dry periods,
afe very enth1usastic taboutL                   rsu poeticad trpplies
16.   Area of Influence. The general area of the influence is in Ponto Novo, in the interior of
the State of Bahia, about 300 km northeast from the capital of Salvador (10° 51'12" S. latitude
and 40° 10' 13" east longitude) and wholly within the semi-arid area, found in the Brazilian
Northeastern region ("Drought Polygon"). In the Itapicuru River Basin, there are more than 18
dams with a volume greater than one million m 3.
17.   The proposed dam would be located 4 km from the city of Ponto Novo. The region is
entirely within the Brazil's Northeastern semi-arid area, which experiences irregular and often
protracted droughts. The spatial and temporal distribution of rainfall is complex, with an annual
average of 908.3 mm, ranging from between 477.6 mm and 1,129.3 mm. Rains fall between
January and March. The driest months are between August and October.
18.   Abiotic Environment. The area to be directly impacted by the construction of the
proposed system would be the 3 km around the lake to be formed by the dam and the affected river
stretches, as well as the areas near the 24 km stretch downstream of the dam up to the lake formed
by the Quemadas Dam. This area is generally level with gently rolling hills. On the flatter and
slightly elevated areas, the soils are predominately latosoils, having medium texture and good
drainage. While lacking natural fertility and moisture, the soil's physical structure is suitable for
agricultural development, including mechanization. On the lower levels, soils tend to be sandy,
rich in sodium and are not suitable for agriculture.
19.   Biotic Environment. Water quality is most threatened by sewerage. Many of the smaller
towns and population centers, which lack modern sanitation systems, discharge raw waste directly
into the river or streams feeding into the river. While the larger urban centers have treatment
facilities, the treated materials are also emptied into the adjacent water bodies. With normal rain
levels, the river has sufficient capacity to recuperate its water quality to acceptable levels.
According to CONAMA classifications, the river water quality is Class 2 - adequate for human
consumption with conventional treatment and for fish life, recreation and irrigation, without
treatment (see Table 3). Ground water sources in the region are limited, both in terms of quantity
and quality.
Table 3. Water Quality Indices for the Itapicuru River
Indicator            Results              Indicator             Results
OD                   6.6 mg/L              pH                   5.4
DBO                  4.9 mg/L              Conductivity          121 mS/cm
Turbidity            75 NTU                Total Alkalinity     4 mg_CaCO3
Sedimentary solids   <0.1 ml/L             Amonical Nitrogen    0.61 mg/L N-NH3
Total durable material  29 mg/L CaCO3      Sodium (Na +')        0.40 mE/L
Phosphate            0.090 mg/LP           Chloride             39 mg/L Cl-
Sulfate              0.45 mgL S04 -2    _Magnesium (Mg +2)    0.41 mE/L
Calcium (Ca'2)       0.19 mE/L             SAR                  0.71
Source: Projeto de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hidricos



20.   The region's vegetation can be classified in three groups: (i) Caatinga Arborea Aberta; (ii)
Secondary vegetation with Palms; and (iii) Vegetation found in areas with agricultural and
livestock activities. The Caatinga Arborea Aberta refers to the native vegetation, typically found
on the level to elevated areas of the regionn Thorny bushes with palms prenlotiinate  The fauna
includes birds, small mammals, reptiles and fish. The secondary vegetation refers to that
vegetation which is found on areas which had been previously cleared of the original native growth.
The diversity of the flora and fauna is more limited than that found in the original caatinga.
Agricultural activities are prevalent throughout the area. Most farmers practice dryland farming
and cultivate com and beans. Livestock graze extensively on native legumes growing on soils of
relatively low fertility.
21.   Mata ciliar is an important riparian vegetation. This protective vegetation helps maintain
the stability of the riverbanks. In the project area, despite the lack of effective control of land
clearing activities and good natural resource management practices, the river banks are relatively
stable and in sound condition.
22.    Species, indigenous to the area, which are threatened with extinction are: (i) flora: a)
"Areoira" (Astronium urudeuva); b) "Brauna" (Schinopsis brasiliensis); c) "Angico" (Pitadenia
sp.) and d) "Quixabeira" (Bumelia obstusifolia); and (ii) fauna: "Jacu" (Penelope
superficiliaris). While these species are indigenous to the area, CERB is currently conducting
studies to determine which, if any of these species, might be affected y the proposed system.
Table 4. ENVIRONMENTAL EVALUATION OF PONTO NOVO
SUMMARY TABLE OF THE MAJOR NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
EFFECT INFLU    REVERSI   LENGTH    MAGNI    PROBA
j ENCE    BILITY                  TUDE       BILITY
CONSTRUTO   HSE,
Submersion of the mata ciliar 4    0 0                  x                     000
Alter water quality       4 -               >                      s)  *000
Building materials and                                            . 0  cx      00
construction waste deposits
change the vegetative cover
Accelerate erosion        4-       0                    o.0
OPERATIONALTPHSE'. -_______    ___
Damage to the vegetation on  40                         0x                    000
the reservoir's protective
perimeter
Modification in the behavior  4-   0       =>                                 000
of aquatic organisms              I       I
LEGEND
Effect:       Influence     Reversibility:    Duration:     Magnitude:  Probability:
Positive: 1   Local: 0      Reversible: cr   Permanent: x   High: ...    Very probable: 000
Negative: I   Regional: 0    Irreversible: =>   Temporary n  Medium: ..  Probable: 00
Cyclical: 0    Low: *   - Low probabili  0



23.    Environmental Impact. Aside from the socio-economic impacts associated with the
resettlement of households whose properties would be affected by the dam construction, reservoir
inundation and implementation of the dam (see Executive Summary for the Resettlement Plan), the
proposed project could pose som.e negat.iv,e enviro.nmen.tal imppacts (sfee. Table 4).1
24.    Construction Phase. During construction, it is likely that the building equipment, material
and dirt fill deposits could damage the vegetation on the river, provoking erosion and run-off.
Unless there is an initial clearing, filling the reservoir would submerge stretches of mata ciliar, the
decay of which would effect the water quality. Earth movement and heavy construction machinery
could temporarily compromise downstream water quality by increasing turbidity and solid
sedimentation.
25.    Operational Phase. Once the reservoir is filled, its 24 km shoreline will lack the natural
vegetative cover needed to contain and protect the shoreline from erosion. Finally, increased
agricultural and livestock activities and pedestrian traffic along, near and across the reservoir's
protective border could damage vegetation and accelerate erosion. Appropriate measures and
precautions might be needed to replant, where necessary, and protect the mata ciliar to prevent
accelerated erosion and sedimentation.
26.    Recommended Mitigative Measures. The principal recommendation and plan of action,
with identification of responsible entities are summarized in Table 5 and discussed below.
27.    Study Phase:  CERB is conducting two exhaustive studies to: (i) prepare the preliminary
proposal for the establishment of a regional natural reserve, the first of its kind for this ecological
habitat. The report would propose the site, cost and action plan for reserve establishment; and (ii)
analyze the impact of the proposed infrastructure and water system on the regional flora and fauna,
especially those species threatened by extinction. This study would also provide a complete
analysis on the effect on marine and benthic life resulting from modifications in the river flow
characteristics. If deemed necessary, the study would propose a plan for rescuing animals which
might be affected by the flooding. These reports, to be presented to the World Bank, would be
completed prior to construction. As a result of these studies, the project would develop: (i) a
natural habitat reserve; (ii) a detailed plan for saving the animals from the area to be flooded; (iii) a
design for the reservoir's fish stocking program; and (vi) a flow regulation compatible with
environmental needs.
28.    Construction Phase. The project management, the UGP, has hired a full-time
environmental specialist to oversee all environmental issues related to the project, especially the
system to monitor and evaluate the project's environmental impacts. To support the environmental
specialist, a transitory Technical Commission for Environment Management (CTGA) would be
established to oversee the dam and construction, reservoir flooding and implementation. The
CTGA, composed of the environmental specialist and representatives of CERB, CRA and other
relevant institutions, would ensure that negative impacts are adequately mitigated and/or
compensated for, or corrected, to the fullest extent possible (see Table 5).
29.    The project would conduct an initial clearing of plant growth in the area to be flooded.
Once constructed, the project, in collaboration with the Instftuto Florestal, would conduct a R$1.6
million program to recover the mata ciliar, the vegetative growth critical to the integrity of the
river banks and shoreline, to fully cover the reservoir's perimeter and the river banks with local
varieties of mata ciliar.



30.    Contracts with firms involved in the construction of the dam and reservoir would have
clauses to ensure that environmental management practices, meeting the standards World Bank and
the State of Bahia, would be followed. To reinforce the contract provision, construction workers
would receive basic en.vironmental training. Special zones would be designated for heawv
equipment and waste materials to mitigate possible damages to the shoreline. In addition, once
construction is completed, the project would finance a program to recuperate environmental
damages resulting from the construction phase.
31.    The road system affected the dam area includes the existing gravel access road system and
a permanent internal gravel road system. To correct the impact of the dam on the existing road
system, the following would be constructed:
*   13.1 km of unpaved roads to circle the lake formed by the dam; and
*    6 footbridges.
Table 5. PLAN OF ACTION AND RESPONSIBLE ENTITIES
MEASURE                                                          ITYPE                   I LENGTH  I COST                             I ENTITY
.... ..     ~          ~           STUDY~ PHASE,
, . i . ..W.i.@.......... .ii..  i. z.@.  ...............                          ......i ...... ..ii. ................................... ... . i..... ..... .  ..... ....i. .. ..... .... .i.....
Definition of the natural reserve                                  Compensate   2 months    R$25 .000,00    CERB/SRH
Rescue plan for fauna (if necessary)                               Mitigation              4 months    R$72.000,00    CERB/IBAMA
.... . .      .......CON. 0STRUCTIN                                                                      ......
Formation of the Technical Commission for   Mitigation                                     23 months   (1)                              CERB
Environmental Management - (CTGA)
Vegetative Growth Clearing Plan for                                Mitigation              5 mo.               R$20.000,00(   CERB
flooded area                                                                                                   PD) 1
...................................................................................................................... ........................................................................ ............................ .........    ...............
Collection of fruits/seeds from flooded area    Mitigation                                 1 mo.               (2)                      SRH/DDF
............................................................................................................... ......... ............ ....................................................................................... ............... ......
Protection of the areas for deposits of                            Mitigation              18 mo.              (1)                      CERB
building materials and waste Provision for
adequate disposal of petroleum wastes and
dust control..
Environmental education for construction                           Mitigation              2 mo.               (1)                      CERB
workersI
..................................................................................................................................................................................... .............................................................
Water Qua!iy Recoveyr Plan PRAD                                     Corrective             5 mo                (1)                      CERB
Environmental Education for Construction                           Corrective              6 yrs               R$741.980,00   SRH
Workers/Firms (2)
Relocation/reconstruction of roads and                             Corrective              6 mo                Not available   CERB/COELB
electrical lines
:   :::   ::   :  :          ::    :         : ..... ...  ...   ..   :.ii                      E    : :::
OPERATIONAL PHASE    ...
Environmental education (2)                                        Mitigation              6yrs                R$622.110,00   SRH
......1     ...................................................................................................  ...........................~Y  ..........................  .............................................................................
Technical assistance for local farmers                             Corrective              6 yrs               R$290.000,00   SR/CIR
Control of activities and transit around the                       Corrective              Life                R$40.000,00/   SRH
reservoir and river bank                                                                                       year
..................................................................................................................................................................... ............ ......................................................
Measures for impact on indigenous species    Compensate    2 mo.                                               R$30.000,00    CERB/
and stocking the reservoir with fish                                                                                                    PESCA



NOTE:         (1) Value is included in the cost of the civil work
(2) Part of the "Mata Ciliar Recovery Program" - R$1.529.270,00
(3) Measure proposed by State Project Preparation Team
32.   In addition, 3.8 km of high voltage transmission lines (13.8 kV) would be flooded, as well
as small sections of low voltage lines. These will be relocated according to criteria and regulations
adopted by COELBA. Finally, to contain the expected flow of traffic, special foot paths and
access roads would be constructed around the reservoir and near the river banks. Based on the
findings of the detailed study on marine life, the project would stock the reservoir with appropriate
fish species.
33.    Operational Phase. As part of the overall project, extensive environmental education
programs, directed to both urban water consumers and farmers, would be especially important, not
only to the mitigation and/or prevention of any negative environmental effects associated to the
dam and the reservoir, but also to the sustainability of the region's natural resources. This
education program would focus initially on the Itapicuru Basin and would extend throughout the
priority Basins in the State. The program would stress the importance of maintaining the
ecological balance through the rational water use and management of natural resources,
particularly water and soil.
34.    The allocation of water rights, as provided for in the project, would significantly mitigate
the potential of environmental impact of the system by: (i) setting aside the water rights for the
river so that river would have a minimum flow of 400 uls; and (ii) under the licensing
arrangements, monitoring and controlling effluent discharge.
35.    Alternative Designs Considered The Ponto Novo dam proposal was selected as the most
reliable and cost-effective among several alternatives. These alternatives included:
* Surface water with small wells. As this alternative would be dependent upon highly irregular
rainfall, it would not have been sufficiently reliable to service the urban population with
potable water and agriculture with water for irrigation;
* Transporting waters from the Paraguacu River Basin by means of the Sao Jose do Jacuipe
Dam. While this alternative could have provided sufficient volumes of good quality water, the
high costs, in terms of the construction and maintenance associated with the 75 km canal
system, were prohibitive;
* Tapping ground waters. This alternative was dismissed after a State survey revealed that the
subterranean waters in the area were restricted in terms of volume and quality. The water's
high saline content would have required treatment for human consumption and been
undesirable for irrigation purposes; and
* Alternative designs, scales and sites for dam and reservoir construction. More than three
different designs were evaluated for dam and reservoir system (see Graph 1). On the basis of
technical and economic criteria (cost/benefit), the option chosen was by far superior.
36.    Once it was determined that, given the physical and hydro-meteorological characteristics of
the region, a reservoir would be the most appropriate means of attending the water demand, a
reservoir optimization model (MODSIM) was applied to identify the most efficient reservoir
configuration (Graph 1). On the basis of these simulations, the proposed Ponto Novo dam and
reservoir was selected.



An Assessment of the Environmental Impact of the Water Resources Management
Component
37.    The Water Resources Management Component is designed to encourage the rational use of
water resources at all levels in the State of Bahia. The component would:
*  Promote efficient, participatory management and use of water resources in the State of Bahia;
* Introduce sustainable administration, operation and maintenance (A, O&M) systems for rural
water supply and irrigation infrastructure; and
*  Develop an institutional model to be used for the rest of the River Basins within Bahia.
38.    The project, focusing on three priority river basins, would establish the regulatory and
institutional frameworks to formulate and implement efficient, rational and sustainable water
resources management policies and plans by: (i) strengthening State institutions, and Basin and
Local User Organizations; (ii)introducing mechanism to promote efficient and rational resource use
and allocation, including tariffs, taxes, transferable use rights etc.; (iii) implementing a monitoring
and information network; and (iv) conducting public education programs regarding rational water
resources use and conservation. The project would support: (i) water users' organizations; (ii)
water resources management decentralization; (iii) allocation and enforcement of water use rights;
(iv) sustainable cost-recovery mechanisms; and (v) construction and/or installation of storage and
conveyance structures, and distribution networks to optimize the storage, delivery, and use of
potable and irrigation supplies within selected areas of the Itapicaru river basin.. Finally, the
project would develop an institutional prototype for all the River Basins within Bahia, with
concepts which could be applicable to other States within Brazil
Graph I



W.ok,R-rSyS1- Uppo-d k Ih n2b B
OS Ino
1S0 V.    Sh   500 h.
333Vs    R; MPuqVSt
2.28 hm3  0  t;OO
de ,,880 V<n® rFO>ul rIZad270 Us                      50 h.
boorl.VOno:                       sh I.r  .            A701/     Alpig
50 11aeZuMTm                           s   
J.p -JAM.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'8*pnn 
RIstOrn.:7  -Njoo                140085
38 ,S h.3   ip*,^   3                 39 ,6 hm          oR
134         17000 h.
400 V,     420  h.gX
100 Vs                           Al,l _   r 0   450 sMRt M..             G-11nta.= 
40.  Monitoring an~~~~~/IPd3 Evaluaion  Th r    eZ S tgatProject Prpaato  Team  haslto   devenlope  an
Environmental Monitoring     U Pln  encompssn  the aeao  inlec   of the dm   Gaandthe resrvoir
The~~~~~ Pla  is bsedothcnslidtono th  osraionstatosoheDpraenoNcoa
de AguaObrvtOs e  nriEerc  (uDN E) the Supritednia  ar     De_novmnod
Nordeste(SUD .ENE  and thet  Deataet  de Vz0 bra3nsco  Cotr  as               " Sea tD OO)    ne  h
sedmenatonitrn and poiEvearlyuarniongo TexStreme rondireartionsTh useaof data dvloggers woul
pErmitonvirtuall soimutarneou dlata ecollecion,inputh antreansmisiofun.e on the uppe parno therervi
ITaePicursu aseo ther  areoiato 18th observation stations.o  h    eatmnoNcoa
deAua Temperatur      e    tia(N E) th                         ChlortenenidesaoDeevlimnod
NoTrdesparnc (SDEE adteleramnoeObammConira a  eaDOO)neh
R..~~ ~~ .N61                          _ 140                                           _
*   Temperature                                      *   ChlorOides
Transparency-t- d*   Ammonia-



*  Color                                    *  Hardness
*  Turbidity                                *  Iron
*  Electrical conductivity                  *  Sulfate
*  OD                                       *  Platens, Bentons and Nectons
*  DBO                                      *  Chlorophyll
*  Total Nitrogen                           *  Total Chloroforms
*  Total Phosphorous                        *  Fecal Chloroforms
*  Total solids                             *  Agro-toxins
*  SAR                                      *  Heavy Metal - Cr e Hg
41.  The Plan would monitor water quality, including the production of, and alterations in solid
materials (see Table 6). In addition, special monitoring systems would be established to document
and evaluate: (i) the state of the mata ciliar; (ii) the effect of agricultural activities on the
environment; and (iii) the condition of the regional vegetative



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
'n X0
Environmental Assessment of the Water Resources Management Component
1.    Background. In the State of Bahia, the lack of a comprehensive water resources
management system with an adequate legal and institutional framework has permitted
unlimited and uncoordinated water resources use in the region. This has contributed to
the environmental degradation of the river basins and in particular, the riparian ecology.
These adverse impacts include unrestrained diversion of flows, a lack of water rights for
environmental purposes, unrestricted water discharge, and destructive riparian farming
practices.
2.    The GOB and State of Bahia are attempting to address these problems through a
number of initiatives, including the development of an integrated system of institutional
reforms and introduction of a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework which would
provide for environmental and user water rights, and water diversion, storage and waste
discharge permits. This institutional framework would greatly expand stakeholder
involvement in the management of the water resources and provide a water conservation
education program to create an environmentally sensitive mentality within both the user
population and those responsible for management and enforcement of the policies. The
objective of the program would be to strengthen the State's ability to alleviate present
destructive environmental practices and increase the environmental sustainability of the
river basins.
3.    The environmental laws of the State of Bahia are modeled after the Brazilian
environmental legal structure; internationally recognized as one of the more advanced
systems of environmental regulation. The implementation of strong water resource
management legal and institutional systems within the state will compliment those laws
and provide for a rational and comprehensive management of the riverine resources of the
State.
4.    This project would assist in the development of: (i) the needed institutional
capacity and legal and regulatory frameworks; (ii) training and capacity building in
sustainable natural resources management; (iii) the State Master Plan for the prioritization
of water resources needs; and (iv) a modern hydro-meteorological information system.
5.    Objectives. The project's institutional objectives would encourage rational and
sustainable water resources use, by:
* promoting efficient, participatory management and use of water resources;
* introducing sustainable administration, operation and maintenance (A, O&M)
systems for rural water supply and irrigation infrastructure; and



* developing an institutional model to be applied throughout Bahia and Brazil.
6.    The water resources management component would introduce an integrated and
decentralized water resources management system in the State of Bahia by:
*  reorganizing and strengthening the Directorate of Water Resources (SRH) to
be able to effectively carry-out its responsibilities as the water resources
manager for the State of Bahia, as specified in Law 6855;
*  providing operational guidance regarding the water rights allocation system
and, in the future, water use charges;
*  implementing an integrated Hydro-Meteorological Information System and
modernize the State's water quality control stations; and
*  decentralizing water resources management as well as the operation,
maintenance and administration of water resources infrastructure by increasing
the role and the capacities of the Regioes Administrative da Aqua (RAA) and
the Water User's Associations (WUA).
7.    Specific Objectives The project, focusing on three priority river basins, would
establish the regulatory and institutional frameworks to formulate and implement efficient,
rational and sustainable water resources management policies and plans by: (i)
strengthening State institutions, and Basin and Local User Organizations; (ii) introducing
mechanism to promote efficient and rational resource use and allocation, including tariffs,
taxes, transferable use rights etc.; (iii) implementing a monitoring and information
network; and (iv) conducting public education programs regarding rational water
resources use and conservation.
8.    The project would support: (i) water users' organizations; (ii) water resources
management decentralization; (iii) allocation and enforcement of water use rights; (iv)
sustainable cost-recovery mechanisms; and (v) construction and/or installation of storage
and conveyance structures, and distribution networks to optimize the storage, delivery,
and use of potable and irrigation supplies within selected areas of the Itapicaru river basin.
The project would strengthen the entities involved in environmental and water resources
control throughout the State government. Finally, the project would develop an
institutional prototype for all the River Basins within Bahia, with concepts which could be
applicable to other States within Brazil.
9.    Proposed Institutional Arrangement. The project would implemented by the
Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos, Saneamento y Habita,cao (SRHSH), through the
Superintendencia de Recursos Hidricos (SRH), with the support of executing agencies
within the SRHSH, including EMBASA, CERB and URBIS, as well as agencies within
the Secretaria de Planejamento, Ciencia e Tecnologia (SEPLANTEC), such as the
Centro de Recursos Ambientais (CAR), and the Secretaria de Agricultura, Irrigaf ao
Reforma Agraria (SEAGRI), including the Departamento de Desenvolvimento Forestal
(DDF) and Coordenafao de Irrigaqao (CIR).



10.   As specified in Law 6855, SRH would be the administrator for water resources
and, as such, would:
*  promote studies to assess water needs and availability;
*  implement, operate and maintain the State's hydro-meteorological information
network and data bank;
*  monitor and execute the civil works of multi-purpose water resources
infrastructure;
*  conserve, protect and rehabilitate water resources;
*  analyze and approve requests for water rights, resolve water conflicts and
monitor water quality standard compliance; and
*  prepare and update the State Water Resources Plan.
11.   To support the SRH in the performance of its responsibilities, Decree 6295/97
calls for the establishment of two bodies to strengthen inter-institutional coordination and
collaboration:
A. Conselho Interinstitucional de Projeto de Gerenciamento de Recursos
Hidricos (CIRH) which would integrate the water resources policies of the State
Secretaries (SRHSH, SEPLANTEC and SEAGRI); and
B. Comite Coordenador (COREH) which would be a technical body to integrate
the project execution activities. It would be composed of SRH, CERB, CRA,
EMBASA, CIR and DDF.
9.    Environmental issues: Environmental issues would be specifically represented by
SEPLANTEC in the CIRH:, and by CRA and DDF in the COREH. In addition, with the
CIRH authorization, COREH could call upon the participation of IBAMA or any other
federal entity involved in environmental, sanitation and water resources issues. An
environmental specialist would be a member of the permanent professional staff of the
SRH's Project Management Unit, with direct responsibility for project administration.
The environmental specialist would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of
project environmental impact and in the effective implementation of all necessary
mitigative measures.
10.   Expected Environmental Impacts. The expected environmental impacts of the
Water Resources Management Component would be to:
* strengthen State institutions, and Basin and Local User Organizations to effectively
manage water resources in the State of Bahia, in a financially and environmentally
sustainable manner;
* assure stakeholder involvement in water resources management and educate the public
of the value of water resources and the importance of water conservation, through
rational use and control of water pollutants;
* within the three priority river basins, establish an institutional structure to: (i) enhance
and stabilize water supplies; (ii) manage infrastructure A, O&M; (iii) promote sound



environmental approaches and water quality standards; and (iv) encourage efficient
water usage, through allocation and enforcement of water rights, conflict mediation,
tariffs and user education programs; and
* allocate water rights which would: (i) allow better monitoring and control of water
pollutants; (ii) represent the first step towards the establishment of water market; and
(iii) secure minimum flow water rights for environmental purposes.
GOVERNO DO
SRHSH
EXEC TOR
ESTUDOS, SISTEMAS, O AS E PROGRAMAS INSTITUCIONAIS
ISRH|
CO-EX CUTOR
ASSESSORAME   EOPERACIONALIZACAO DE ACOES
F ExECugAO DE ORAS ||EXECuCAO DE OBRAS |          F--AElLDE||EXcugAO DE PROJETS||GRECAET 
|OP ERAAO DE SISTEMAS |OPERAQACO DE SISTEMAS   EAAEP%AA    DE R EFLORESTAMENTO |OERAA  MTNA
RURAIS         AMINASDE PROJETOS D RIAA
11.    There are three categories of activities under the project's water resources
management component: (a) institutional strengthening; (b) technical assistance; (c)
planning. Table A indicates the expected environmental impacts for the activities under
each of these categories.
A. Institutional Strengthening
Positive Aspects an /or Benefits        I                      Risks
Development of the Integrated Water Resources Management System
|    Facilitates the State's political decision  .  Without adequate controls, the more agile
making process related to environmental          institutional arrangement could be used by
issues related to water resources                power groups to have policies enacted
favoring their interests to the determinant of
|    Improves the State's water quality control      those of the State and natural resources.



capabilities                             .  The system will not succeed if the
introduction of the system does not ensure
Strengthens State's ability to resolve water  the full participation of all stakeholders,
conflicts                                    including users, rcgulatory ageries
|__ __   public utilities.
Strengthening of State Water Resources Organizations and Entities
Decentralization and technical training will   .  Local interests could exercise inappropriate
increase these entities ability to monitor and  influence over the local authorities to the
control the user and conservation of water   deternent of the State's overall natural
resources                                    resources interests.
The establishment of the Regional
Administrative Authorities with the
participation of SRH, CAR and DDF, will
permit an integrated multi-disciplinary
approach to water resources management.
Decentralization will allow for a more
flexible and timely decision-making process
regarding water resources matters.
Integrated local management will strengthen
environmental controls and monitoring.
Development of Legislation, Standards and Procedures
prepare complementary legal text to clarify   .  The environmental legislation does not
existing body of environmental laws.         contain aspects specifically relating to water
provide legal and institutional support to the  resources, especially as it relates the fragile
WUA in the formation of their                environment of the semi-arid region.
organizations.                           .  The introduction of the water charges would
develop environmental standards to be        need to: (i) take into consideration the socio-
incorporated in the TOR for civil works      economic conditions of the users; and (ii)
prepare operational guidelines for use of   ensure that the proceeds are reinvested
subterranean waters.                         largely in the region from which they were
collected.
Training
State technicians would be trained, not only  .  None identified
in technical matters specifically related to
water, but also in natural resources
management. will promote a more
integrated water resources management
system.
Water users would also receive professional



training through intensive courses on
management practices, ecology, and
rational water resources use. It is expected
hlat 'uhese courses wouulu have a multippliker
effect in local communities.
Public Information
Water users education programs directed to  *  None identified
all users, including public utilities, private
firms, civil groups concerning the social and
economic value of water.
Promote the involvement of users in the
development of the Basin and State-level
Water Resources Plan
Short public information courses conducted
by means of frequent and informal meetings
with the local communities concerning
rational water use and the economic and
social value of water.
Public education programs concerning the
basic environmental and water resources
legislation.
B. Technical Assistance
Develop an integrated State Hydro-Meteorological information collection network by
consolidating stations throughout the State
Increase the effectiveness and coverage of   .  Given the administrative and logistical
the State information system in order to    limitations in the State, the system design
improve water quality control, understand   should be simple to ensure its effective
better water dynamics; increase ability to  implementation
plan and control natural resources
degradation.
Increase the sample area network to be used
in the determination of the environmental
sustainability of the issuance of water rights
and construction permits in the river basins
Water Users' Cadaster and the Allocation of Water Rights
The users' cadaster will increase water  .  None identified
quality by permitting the control



effluents and the identification of their
source.
Water rights allocation system is a an
essA11tial InStrumLInt iII effcLAiV Ve wate
resources planning.                   l
Development of an Integrated Hydro-Meteorological Information System
The information system would enable the    .  None identified
analysis of updated environmental date to
monitor environmental impacts and identify
possible areas requiring urgent attention.
The SRH would be able to monitor the
effective implementation of the Water
Resources Plan, identify deviations and
recommend modification if needed.
The information system would encourage
local participation providing them evidence
to support their requests to the official
organs.
C. Water Resources Planning
River Basin Water Resources Plans
Integrated regional water resources    .  None identified
planning allow for the evaluation of
interventions and their short-term and long
term environmental impact.
These plans are crucial to the determination
of the expected demand and availability of
water resources
State Water Resources Plan
The State Plan, based on the River basin  .  None identified
Plans, would consolidate the various
demands given the State's physical,
economic and environmental constraints.



Part C
Environmental Data Sheet



Part D
Resettlement Plan
1.    The Resettlement Plan (RP), endorsed by the State Government, is designed to mitigate the
negative effects the dam construction would have on the lives of the households whose properties
(in part or whole) are located in the area and the periphery of the area to be flooded by the
reservoir and the construction sites of the dam and any related works, such as access roads, power
lines, etc. The Plan would provide assistance to restore or improve their living conditions and
social lives in the shortest possible time. The Plan ensures the improvement or maintenance of the
affected household's housing conditions, level of income and agricultural production, and access to
social services, including health and education. In addition, the Plan offers the population a choice
of compensation options from which to choose.
Background of the Affected Area and Population
2.    The Itapicuru River Basin, one of the largest and one of the few perennial river basins in
the State of Bahia, encompasses 45 municipalities, with more than 1.19 million inhabitants, more
than 10 percent of the State's population. The Basin, more than 90 percent of which is in the semi-
arid region, includes the Itapicuru, Itapicuru-Acu, Itapicuru-Mirim and Tucano Rivers, as well as
over 30 reservoirs.
3.    The Basin's population is very poor, more than 75% of the heads of households earn less
than one minimum monthly salary (salario minimo mensal, SMM) -equivalent to the cost of a
basic food basket needed to feed a family. The economy is largely agriculturally based, while
mining is also an important industrial activity. Farming is primarily dry-land subsistence farming,
producing beans, corn and cassava, and using little modem inputs. Livestock is raised extensively.
Most farms are small, 62 percent of which are under 10 ha. More than 54 percent of the
population over 5 years old is completely illiterate.
4.     Proposed Construction of the Ponto Novo Dam. To address the region's severe water
supply problems, several dam construction sites were considered by the State Government,
including Ponto Nova, Pedras Altas, Pindobacu, Carrapichel and Cachoeira Grande. On the basis
of technical criteria and cost-benefit analysis, Ponto Novo was identified as the best site.
Affected Area and Households
5.    The proposed Ponto Novo dam, some 4 km from the municipality of Ponto Novo, would
flood an area of about 1,400 ha., have a capacity of 72,000 thousand m3 and a maximum height of
23 meters. The dam would provide 4,803 1/s with 90% assurance. Of which, after deducting 970
I/s for year-round (perennial) downstream river flow, 750 I/s would be available for human and
animal consumption. More than 3,083 1/s would be available for agricultural irrigation. The total
area affected by the construction of the dam, including the area to be flooded including the
proscribed periphery of 100 meters would be 1,903.2 ha. and would effect 186 properties.
6.    The total population would include 213 families with 863 people, about 45 percent of
whom are under 18 years old. On the basis of a survey conducted of 167 of the affected properties
(90 percent of the affected properties), the affected population is:



*   living in extreme poverty, with 85 percent of the heads of households earning less than one
SMM;
*   dependent upon agriculture as its primary source of livelihood;
relatively sable, -ith, ,7 percent of +.h, hou-eold. hea,-Jhvi. lived1 ir. t1.er preser.t
residence for more than 5 years and 51 percent of whom have lived there for more than 20
years; and
*   very poorly educated, with only 3 percent having completed elementary school.
Characteristics of Affected Households
Munici alit       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P~noiNov ~ ASa~dd  F iladelfia  Pinob9u        Total i
lE:0Pro erties (noi.):iS4i:j:l :0002X:i:i:02i  = X =   00E2E3E0EL:f;tt;t;00_ ;:|:Xf70 t;;:;:; 47  25  5 9  186 . . 23 
Fail iFest (o.)          56                23             88             46             2130000LA;;00$i0pgfgf0;0    0.tg3000000000000gltl;00ttXi08   000000000000000000    t00
Persons=no.     223               95             32             202            8 63
Pro e   Owners(%)  ~~~~      ~     ~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~95. 9  37 .5 .....      90  9
Residences (no. 2  28          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,  56  16           104
TOtal Areaj1(hai)        2,615.7 3        408.6          2,505.8         2,658.1        8, I8.2
7A t            (h       650.9             73.            517.6          661.1          1,903.2
7.      Significantly, most, about 55 percent of the heads of households reside and work on their
farm properties, while some 9 percent work on the farms of others or find work in the neighboring
municipalities.
8.      For the affected population, the church is the most important social organization, with
more than 53 percent of the heads of households affiliated primarily to the Catholic Church. Other
active social organizations include the Community Association of the Vareza do Bol, the Rural
Workers Association and the Rural Union of Ponto Novo. These social organizations would serve
as indispensable focal points for the resettlement education promotion and future project activities,
particularly the formation and strengthening of Water User Associations (WUA). The dam
construction would also affect community infrastructure (see table below).
Municipalities  Schools  C::hurches  Cemeter       SoccersFieldsC         u
PontoNovo          0                0               0                 0                1t4j:0000040  0 X0000000400000000      :000 : 0t;0000        000 X100t.01000XX;
Xt Pindob0000000 u 00  0  ti000     0         0 000 S  tit00000000  X:000000  0 000   t  000000000  ti i400000004400000000000 ili0  004 ;000000 t0  i;ilj0000 tit;0    0  0
i0I;040000  l0.0000  t;i;0000   ti;00   0   tlli tS3.   .0.000.0.  0i.00000000000  0000000000Xtli   .  .0000000000000004. . . . . . .  . . . .  . . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . . .ti
Community Dialogue: Participation of the Affected Households and Community Meetings
9.       To ensure that the affected households are fully informed of the implications of the dam
construction and the options available to them, State Rural Engineering Company, (Companhia de
2 The number of properties does not correspond to the number of residences affected because on some
affected properties, no residences are affected, while on other affected properties, multiple residences are
affected.



Engenharia Rural de Bahia, CERB) established a permanent office in Ponto Novo. In addition,
teams of social workers were sent to discuss with the affected households, the communities and the
municipal leaders. At these meetings the affected population provided valuable input into setting
eniqitahlee ind naceptahle rnmnPen-ation nprkage ontions
10.   The CERB's field team has conducted three formal meetings to explain to the affected
communities the likely implications of the dam construction. In addition, CERB, through its
permanent field office in Ponto Novo and continuous informal visits to the communities, has been
addressing their concerns, responding to their questions and, whenever possible, incorporating their
suggestions into the Resettlement Plan.
11.   At the meetings, the communities, including families and their leaders, were informed of
the design of the compensation package - that those families which, as a result of the dam
construction would remain with less than 5 ha to cultivate could choose between: (i) resettlement
to a "model farm", which would have 5 ha (2 ha of which would be irrigated), a farm house and a
shed; or (ii) a cash compensation. Those families which would be partially affected, (those who
would remain with more than 5 cultivable ha) would be compensated for the value of the lost
property.
12.   In May 1997, with the State having given its formal endorsement to the Resettlement Plan,
CERB began to organize additional meetings with the communities to be held throughout the
coming months to discuss the specific details of the compensation options. It is very important at
these meetings that the communities can appreciate the economic implications of the options
offered. For this reason, CERB is considering constructing a farm house prototype and bringing
the communities to the proposed resettlement site.
Situation of the Properties of the Affected Households
Municipality..':     No of Aff.e:ctd..     Totally Affected'    Partially.Affected
Properties           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Ponto Novo           47                    29                    18
Sauide               23                    6                     17
Filadelfia           57                    36                   21
Pindoba,''           59                    14                   45
TOTAL    ... .. .. ....  186               85                    101
those households with less than 5 ha remaining
Compensation for the Affected Households
13.   The proposed compensation plan would ensure that the economic and social conditions of
the affected households would be maintained or improved. The compensation packages were
designed so that the households could choose among options. Households could choose between a
range of in-kind replacement/improvement of their farm and residence or the cash indeminification.
The compensation packages provide a sliding subsidy, over and above the assessed value of the
property, ranging from 50% for the poorest households to 10% for the highest income households,
over and above the estimated market value of the affected properties, including land, infrastructure,
and production. As the value of the indemnification packages were estimated to compensate the
households sufficiently to be able to replace these assets, depreciation factors were not applied. In
addition, indeminification was to cover not only the loss of property experienced by the households,



but to compensate them for intangible losses resulting from the resettlement, such as disruptions in
social patterns and associations. There is a floor value to ensure that those households with
essentially no assets can acquire a small farm in the vicinity.
14.    The affected households were categorized into four groups:
Household Group 1                          those whose land would be totally affected
Household Group 2                          those whose farms would be partially affected
and be left with more than 5 ha unaffected
Household Group 3                          those whose farms would be partially affected
and be left with less than 5 ha unaffected
household Group 4                          those whose farmland is rented and would be
totally or partially affected.
15.    As a minimum, households in Groups 1 and 3 would be offered:
a) resettlement to the farm model with full title to a 5 ha of agricultural land, of which 2 ha would
be irrigated, with a residence and shed, serviced with water and a septic tank; or
b) sufficient compensation to be able to purchase equivalent property in the region: This would
have as a minimum base level, R$7,000 for urban resettlement and R$ 12,000 for rural
resettlement.
16.    Those in Group 2 could choose to:
a) remain in their original sites and receive compensation for the land lost and/or affected;
b) remain at their original site and participate in collective irrigation program to be established
under the project;
c) be resettled to the model farm; or
d) be compensated for the value of their entire original site.
17.    Those in Group 4 would be guaranteed access to equivalent or better land through
resettlement. Those with this right would be those households which had been registered as
occupants prior to June 30, 1997.
Resettlement and Farm with House Option
18.    The State has identified an appropriate site and would acquire the site under a decree of
social interest (decreto de interesse social). The site would consist of up to 540 ha, currently
owned by three, fully documented, proprietors and is completely within the bounds of the project.
It is located 2 km from Ponto Novo and has a major road running along its eastern boundary.
19.    Each family resettled under the project would receive 5 ha of irrigable farm land, of which
2 ha would be fully equipped with a pressurized irrigation network, a 58 m2 residence, with
running water and sanitation and a store house. The total cost of the farm with house option,



infrastructure for which would be constructed by or contracted by the State through CERB, is an
estimated R$26,000 and would be financed by the Bank loan.
Support Services
20.    The Resettlement Plan would provide: (i) legal assistance to review existing land
documentation and provide valid land titles; (ii) extension services to help farmers effectively make
the transition from dry to irrigated farming; (iii) training in O&M of water infrastructure; and (iv)
assistance to strengthen community associations.
a) Land Titling: Of the affected households who consider themselves "owners", most lack
proper title to document their status, and many are without birth certificates To facilitate the
resettlement and compensation process, it is necessary to ensure that the affected households
possess the minimum documentation required under the law. To this end, a CERB-contracted
lawyer has been assigned to work in the field and review and validate the legal status of the
affected households. This will be facilitated by the State law (the registry of the Cartorio de
Registro de Imoveis, handled through the State land agency) which has less complex
documentation requirements for properties under 25 ha, accounting for more than of the 60%
affected households. As condition to the loan, the documentation certification process must be
complete before the dam can be filled or households be resettled.
b) Legal Aid and the Right of Appeal: The Plan provides for legal assistance for the affected
households. Every household has the right to appeal the compensation package offered. The
State would review the compensation methodology if sufficient affected households express
dissatisfaction with the compensation options offered.
c) Subsistence Allowance. All affected households, both those who elect to be resettled and those
who decide to resettle themselves are entitled to a subsistence allowance.
d) Training and Technical Assistance: To fully realize the economic benefits of irrigation,
resettled farmers will require training and technical assistance. Public entities as well as
contracted private firms would provide such assistance not only to farmers but also to the local
unskilled labor pool. Training will be provided in operation and maintenance of farm
machinery and irrigation equipment.
e) Credit: Modeled after the Jaiba irrigation project, contacts have been made with State,
national and regional development banks and credit institutions to ensure that the resettled
families have access to sufficient credit to cover the short and longer term investment
requirements of irrigated agriculture.
f) Community Strengthening: Training would be provided to help the families form important
community groups, such as water users' associations and producer associations.
Risks
21.    A successful resettlement plan is one in which the compensation options offered are
satisfactory to the affected population and are reasonable within the given financial constraints. As



a result of a successfully implemented Resettlement Plan, the socio-economic conditions of the
affected families will be at least equal to or better than their conditions prior to Resettlement. But,
while experience has demonstrated that not all resettlements are successful, it has also identified
several measures which significantlv increase the probability of a successful Resettlement which
have been incorporated into this Resettlement Plan.
a) Continuous and open consultation with the affected community through formal and informal
meetings is a prerequisite for a successful resettlement. The community needs to be able to
participate in the decision making to the fullest extent possible. For this reason, the Plan has
provided for a an uninterrupted dialogue between the State and the community through the
office established in Ponto Novo, expressly for the Resettlement, and field visits and meeting
conducted by the social workers.
b) Compensation options must be fair and balanced The options must be sufficient to at least
duplicate the conditions under the which the affected population currently live. To avoid the
possibility of skewing the selection toward one option over another, the options presented must
be perceived by the affected population to be approximately equivalent.
c) In the implementation of this Plan, it will be especially critical that the affected population
receive sufficient assistance to be able to appreciate the net worth in terms of long-term income
streams of the farm with house option. As this population of mostly dry land farmers has
recently experienced a five year drought, its perception of agriculture is a bitter one. In many
respects the success of the Plan rests on the ability of the affected farm households to
appreciate the economic implications of irrigated farming. According to govermment estimates,
estimated income from the farm with house option proposed would be equivalent to 5.8 SMM -
a significant improvement over the current income of the majority of the households of under 1
SMM.
d) Resettlement is only the beginning. After the families have been physically resettled, they will
need technical, legal, financial and social assistance to adjust to their new surrounding and to
the irrigated farming technologies. This Plan make ample accommodation for provision of
such assistance, either directly or through the relevant entities.
Action Plan
22.   Institutional Framework The Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projecto (UGP) of the
Superintendencia de Recursos Hidricos (SRH) of the Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos Saneamento
e Habita,co (SRHSH) would be responsible for the project and as such for the successful
implementation of the Resettlement Plan.
23.    The Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahia (CERB), the entity responsible for the
construction activities related to the Ponto Novo, would also be responsible for the implementation
of the Resettlement Plan. In this regard, a formal agreement between CERB and SRHSH would
identify the specific institutional responsibilities. CERB, would among other things, facilitate
inter-institutional coordination among the various agencies associated with the execution of the
Plan.
24.    To execute its responsibilities, CERB has appointed an Executive Manager for
Resettlement, reporting directly to CERB's President. The Manager is supported by an in-field



inter-disciplinary team, which includes a sociologist, a lawyer, and agronomist and social workers.
In addition, a small team in CERB's Salvador office would provide additional managerial support
to the execution of the Plan.
25.    Social services: To ensure that social infrastructure constructed for the resettled
population would be operational, assurances, by means of formal agreements, would be sought
from the relevant institutions, such as the Secretaries of Health and Education, as well as the
Municipal government, to provide sufficient personnel, operational materials and service.
26.    Training and Technical Assistance: Such services would be provided through public
entities and private firms and the conditions of the delivery of these services would be specified in
contracts with CERB and/or a private firm contracted to provide and/or overview such services for
the project.
Time Frame
27.    Beginning in April, 1997, three fundamental processes began and would be maintained
throughout the following year:
I. Inter-institutional Coordination, through meetings with the entities related to the
implementation of the Plan would be convened at least monthly throughout the resettlement
process. These would be conducted primarily by CERB.
II. Validation and documentation of the tenure and legal status of the affected households
would begin and continue throughout the following year. This process would be led by the
CERB legal office in Ponto Novo.
III. Consultative process with the Affected Communities. This would be conducted by CERB
contracted social workers as well as by contracted private firms specialized in resettlement
activities.
Site Acquisition
28.   In June/July 1997, the State would, by virtue of the decree of social interest, complete the
process of acquiring the resettlement site and documenting the transfer.
Civil Works
29.    With respect to the construction of the Farm with House Options, after acquiring the
resettlement site, CERB would (i) receive the required environmental permits for construction
activities, (ii) prepare the final designs for the civil works; (iii) issue the bids for tender for
construction contractors; (iv) award the contracts; and (iv) supervise the works.
30.    CERB would begin the process for the development of social infrastructure in August
1997. This would involve the formal agreement with the relevant entity regarding complementary
material and personnel to operate the facilities; complete the civil work design in collaboration with
the relevant institution; issuance of bids for tender; and the supervision of the construction
activities.
Training and Technical Assistance



31.    In the early stages, training and technical assistance would be required to help the
communities appreciate the social and economic implications of the options being offered to them.
This is especially needed as many may not be fully aware of the medium to long term income
streams related to Lhe farm with house option.
Monitoring and Evaluation
32.    Prior to actual resettlement activities, monitoring and evaluation would begin to ensure
there is adequate base line data concerning the affected households. Final Evaluation would be
conducted with the completion of the Resettlement Plan. In addition, continuous M&E would be
conducted as part of the Project's overall M&E.
Resettlement Plan
Cost and Funding Sources
(R$1,000,00)
Item                               Total....  di       WolXakSaeGvrmn
titlPldtpwaratiorlX ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~...  .....000044X0  0        X0X     X)lt00000  0600i0        t:tiittttt ..  .    ...... .X .. ..  ..i0jg  ......... .
ResettleetLand&Purchase          .. . 1481.00110
Plot re aration      2,076               1,~~~~663,         41 3
Cash  a ruents            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,764~                   1,7641]   i
Subsisence::Allowance               326                261                 65
A     _       .                                        2 :  6 . . i  In  t & M ine  358  .  72
Trainin                   ~~~~~~26            2 
s      .i .     . S . . . . . . . . . .  i a  .
Sn~~~~~~~~~~~~~.         .ort.Services  121      97                  2
Communi  Infrastructure   ~~~~~~~~~~~1:7.8    14                 3
Total                              5,030               2,470              2,560



