Report No. PIC4819
Project Name              Brazil-Bahia Water Resources Management Project (@#)
Region                       Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                       Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                   BRPA35728
Borrower                     The State of Bahia. The Federative Republic of
Brazil will be the guarantor.
Implementing Agency          Water Resources Directorate (Superintendencia de
Recursos Hidricos)
Av. Luiz Viana Filho, S/N
Centro Administrativo da Bahia
Salvador, Bahia 41746-900
Tel: (55-71) 370-6198
Fax: (55-71) 371-1149
Date PID Prepared            February 27, 1997
Projected Appraisal          March 1997
Projected Board Date         July 1997
1.      Background. The Northeast of Brazil is the poorest region of
the country, containing more than half of the country's poor . The
State of Bahia is the largest state in the Northeast, with a
population of 12 million inhabitants and an area covering over one
half million km2. Bahia boasts Brazil's fifth largest economy, with
significant agricultural and industrial sectors, the latter
dominated by the petrochemical industry. Despite its economic
importance, the State suffers from an incidence of poverty almost
twice the national average. Poverty is most pronounced in the rural
areas, where more than 60 percent of the population lives. Nearly
three-quarters of rural heads of household have monthly incomes
under US$80, less than one minimum wage per month, and more than
half are illiterate. Less than a quarter of the rural population
has access to proper sanitation facilities and only 10 percent has
reliable access to safe water.
2.      The Sao Francisco River flows through Bahia and separates the
eastern two-thirds of the state, which includes areas of small
subsistence farm settlements, from the western third, marked by
larger farmers, growing soybean and other export crops. Nearly 70
percent of Bahia's land area falls within the Northeast "drought
polygon". The scarce and highly irregular rainfall which
characterizes this semi-arid region reduces crop yields and quality
and their subsequent market value. Rural poverty in the semi-arid
region is correlated with these variable agro-climatic conditions
that make the region vulnerable to drought. In contrast, the area
encompassing the west, south and coastal regions, is marked by
plentiful water supplies, greater rainfall and fertile soils, and
is the more productive agricultural and livestock area Nonetheless,
conflicts over water use in this area, such as that noted in the
western region between hydroelectricity and irrigation, have



intensified.
3.      The abundance of water resources in Bahia, contrasted with
the regional water scarcities and water use conflicts, underlines
one of the State Government's central challenges for future
economic development of the state: effective water resources
management. Annual water demand relative to total availability is
not high, but water resources are unevenly distributed in both time
and location. Therefore, effective water management, by optimizing
the allocation and use of water resources throughout the State, can
mitigate water conflicts stemming from competing uses and relieve
water scarcities affecting the semi-arid rural areas, problems
which impinge upon Bahia's economic development.
4.      Water resources management is nascent in the State of Bahia.
The State Government (SG) recognizes that without a comprehensive
water resources management plan linked to its investment projects,
it cannot resolve the State's complex problems of water scarcity,
water conflicts and watershed conservation. As a first step, in
1995, the SG created the Water Resources Directorate
(Superintendencia de Recursos Hidricos, SRH), under the Secretariat
of Water Resources, Sanitation and Housing (Secretaria de Recursos
Hidricos, Saneamento e Habitacao, SRHSH). SRH is responsible for
water resources planning and management, including technical
studies, inventory, and cadastre of water users, issuance of water
permits, hydrologic and meteorological monitoring, a hydrologic
database and baseline studies of the major watersheds. In addition,
the SG is committed to the process of decentralizing water
resources management, and accordingly has divided the state into 13
"Water Management Regions" (Regioes Administrativas da Agua)
corresponding to its major watersheds. SRH will have a regional
office (with a small number of staff) in each region. Therefore,
water users will have an open channel to SRH without the need to go
to the state capital, Salvador. The creation of regional offices
will also facilitate the issuance of water permits, the resolution
of conflicts between users and the operation and maintenance (O&M)
of the State's hydrologic monitoring network.
5.      At the same time, as part of a program to improve urban water
supply and sanitation, an ongoing, Bank financed water sector
modernization project is, inter alia, providing institutional
strengthening to the public water company serving the urban areas.
In addition, the SG is collaborating with the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) to clean and protect the "Bahia de Todos os
Santos" (All-Saints Bay) in the metropolitan region of Salvador.
Finally, as a result of recent efforts, and through collaboration
with public banks and the electricity company, Bahia's water use
registration and permit program now covers over 75 percent of
irrigation water use.
6.      The goal of SG is to formulate a State Strategy for Water
Resources Management which would support economic and social
development in Bahia through a more efficient and rational
allocation of water resources among competing uses. SRH has begun
to assess water uses and resources of its major watersheds,
- 2-



identifying major water conflicts and specific water resource
problems hindering regional economic growth. In the semi-arid
region, for example, there are documented ground water supplies
which could be managed for irrigation, for potable water supplies
to both the rural areas and urban centers, and for other uses. In
addition, the State is evaluating procedures and incentives for
promoting the resolution of water conflicts. SRH has also started
to investigate methodologies and models that can be used for the
development of a system of bulk water tariffs and for the
establishment of water market mechanisms in parts of the State.
However, given the complexity of water issues and their inter-
sectoral nature, the task of formulating, implementing and
enforcing sound water resources management guidelines in Bahia is
difficult and hampered by a weak institutional framework.
7.      Project Objectives.
The objectives of the project are to:
A. Promote the efficient use of water resources in the State of
Bahia. The project, focusing on three priority basins, would
establish the regulatory and institutional framework to permit the
formulation and implementation of efficient and sustainable water
resource management policies and plans by: (i) strengthening State,
Basin and user institutions; (ii) introducing incentives to promote
efficient resource use and allocation (tariffs, taxes, markets
etc.); (iii) implementing a monitoring and information network to
maximize water management efficiency; and (iv) conducting consumer
education programs regarding rational water resources use and
conservation;
B. Develop a financially sustainable administration, operation and
maintenance (A, O&M) system for rural water supply and irrigation
infrastructure by supporting: (i) water users' associations; (ii)
water resources management decentralization; (iii) equitable and
practical cost-recovery mechanisms; (iv) allocation and enforcement
of water rights; and (v) construction and/or installation of flow
regulation and storage structures, and conveyance and distribution
networks to optimize operations;
C. Assisted by a decentralized institutional support system,
involving water user associations and water management regions, at
the river basin level, the project would establish an efficient and
transparent mechanism to channel know-how and resources for A, O&M
of completed infrastructure projects and for the implementation of
beneficiary-demanded new or rehabilitated systems; and
D. Contribute to the alleviation of rural poverty. Investments in
rural water and irrigation infrastructure construction and
rehabilitation would improve the rural water delivery service by
increasing the year-round water supply for human consumption and
productive purposes. This would result in significant improvements
in the standard of living of rural poor households. Better access
to water would improve the overall population's health, sanitation
and living standards, and increase the household income of the
- 3 -



small farm families.
8.      Project Description.
Institutional Strengthening Component. This component would provide
the necessary technical and financial resources to strengthen the
State, Basin and user level institutions to effectively manage
water resources in Bahia. The component would establish an
institutional structure which has the technical, financial and
legal capacity to administer a bulk water distribution system which
would: (i) ensure users a reliable water supply to meet consumptive
and productive needs; (ii) supervise infrastructure A, O&M; (iii)
enforce water pollution control mechanisms; and (iv) encourage
efficient water usage, through allocation and enforcement of water
rights allocation, mediation of conflicts, and collection of water
tariffs. Additionally, this component would also provide training
and technical assistance to enable water users to administer,
operate and maintain water infrastructure by establishing and/or
strengthening water users' committees in the three priority basins
through technical assistance and training programs, including a
public information and education water resources program. To
facilitate water resources management, the component would develop
and establish an integrated hydro-meteorological information system
(HMIS) for the three priority basins.
Infrastructure Component. This component would finance the
construction and rehabilitation of water storage and distribution
infrastructure in the Itapicuru River Basin. The investments would
be based on well-defined economic, technical and environmental
criteria as well as social and environmental impact assessments.
All infrastructure investments would be consistent with the Basins'
Water Resources Management (WRM) Plan. To identify the project
infrastructure investments, this component would evaluate and
assess proposals from the perspectives of their economic and
financial sustainability, technical soundness, and social and
environmental impacts. During the project's first year, the
component would support the construction of the water
infrastructure at the Ponto Novo System in the Itapicuru River
Basin. This investment would increase the year-round availability
of water to the surrounding rural communities and provide a source
of water for irrigation for more than 2,000 small farmers. The sub-
project would include the design and implementation of a rural
potable water district. The feasibility of the rehabilitation of
existing dams in the river basin for possible inclusion in the
project would be evaluated during project implementation.
9.      Project Cost and Financing. The total project cost of US$85
million would be financed with a US$50 million World Bank loan and
the balance with counterpart funds of the State of Bahia.
10.     Project Implementation. The project would be implemented by
the Secretariat of Water Resources, Sanitation and Housing (SRHSH)
of the State of Bahia, through its Water Resources Directorate
(SRH). A Project Preparation Unit has been created in SRH to
coordinate the preparation of project activities. Because the
- 4 -



project is inter-sectoral in scope, SRH will work directly with
EMBASA and CERB, the agencies within SRHSH responsible for urban
and rural water and sanitation programs, respectively, as well as
with other public and private water user agencies for
implementation of the project.
11.     Sustainability. Under the proposed project, the SRH and the
new regulatory and administrative reforms related to water use will
create an environment conducive to efficient water use and
allocation, and thus, to environmentally sustainable development.
The proposed institutional strengthening, technical assistance and
training components would build the necessary human resource
capacity and develop an appropriate organizational structure to
carry out and oversee the proposed water resources management
activities during and after project implementation. The proposed
project would promote the sustainable inter-sectoral use of water
and the consolidation of water-related functions in the State. The
future costs of operating and maintaining the program's activities
and infrastructure after project completion would be well within
the financial capabilities of SRHSH, taking into account cost
recovery schemes and water tariff collection.
12.     Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement. The project
would represent one of the first efforts at the State level in
Brazil to implement the lessons contained in the Bank's policy
statement as well as those learned in the Bank's extensive
experience in irrigation, rural poverty alleviation and grassroots
development, and beneficiary participation, including :
Bank Water Resources Policy. This policy statement stresses the
importance of establishing an integrated water resources management
approach, which, simultaneously, respects the water resources' eco-
systems and reconciles cross-sectoral water demands. For this
reason, the project would emphasize institutional strengthening and
inter-institutional coordination (Water Resources Management
Policy. World Bank, 1995).
Inter-sectoral allocation of water is a highly political issue
involving significant political, bargaining and decision-making
costs. It is crucial to have sound institutional mechanisms to
facilitate consensus among the various parties concerning water
allocation arrangements. Experience has also demonstrated that
clear lines of command and mechanisms for evaluating competing
claims on water resources are equally important For this reason,
the project places a high priority in devising and strengthening
institutional arrangement which includes the identification of the
SRH as the focal point and involves the full participation of all
relevant agents. (Country Experiences with Water Resources
Management, World Bank, 1992).
Water Markets, Water Tariffs and Cost Recovery. According to
Bank policy, rational water use is achieved through the
establishment of free water markets, with water charges reflecting
water 's economic value. To this end, Bank experience indicated
that this can be achieved only once sufficient institutional, legal
- 5 -



and regulatory frameworks are in place. In addition, successful
assessment and collection of such tariffs is dependent upon the
public's appreciation of the benefits to be derived from
participating. Experience points to the need for sound educational
and multi-media promotion programs. Based on these findings, the
project would be dedicated to developing legal frameworks,
implementing the water rights allocation system and conducting
extensive public education programs (Water Resources Management
Policy, World Bank, 1995).
Decentralization and Beneficiary Participation. The Bank's
experience has unfailingly demonstrated the need to emphasize
decentralization and greater stakeholder participation in resource
management. Specific experiences in Brazil in water management
projects, and particularly in the Northeast, have shown that firm
government commitment to the project objectives is absolutely
essential to help overcome many institutional weaknesses. In this
regard, the State Government's commitment to the project is
assured. Building on the Bank's experience, the project would be
premised on the need to reinforce water users association so that
these become the primary agents for local water resources
management, including operations and maintenance. (Design and
Operation of Smallholder Irrigation in South Asia, World Bank,
1995).
13.     Environmental Aspects. Environmental Category A. The
objective of the project is to improve water resources management
in order to ensure the rational use and conservation of water
resources in the State of Bahia. All project activities would be
consistent with each Basin's Water Resources Development Plan.
Infrastructure proposals would be reviewed and approved by the
Inter-Institutional Council, in which the State Environmental
agency would play a key role. In accordance with Bank guidelines,
complete socio-economic cadastres and impact assessments and social
compensation plans would be conducted for populations which might
be adversely affected by construction activities generated by the
project.
Ponto Novo Infrastructure Activity. The eco-system of the upper
region of the Itapicuru River Basin, where the Ponto Novo
infrastructure is contemplated, has been progressively
deteriorating. The environmental devastation has been primarily a
reflection of the poverty and limited survival options of the
population in this semi-arid region. Natural resource deterioration
has been related to the extractive economic activities, including
extensive cattle raising and logging, poor soil and water
management and cutting native vegetation for fuel.
The Ponto Novo infrastructure would consist of the construction of
a dam, main potable water pipelines and a conveyance system for
irrigation. According to the environmental assessment, the dam
construction and the consequent widening of the river would have a
negative, yet completely reversible, effect on the environment. The
proposed activity would eliminate a critical corridor of bio-
diversity, consisting of the native vegetation found along the
- 6 -



river banks. If not replaced, the loss of this vegetation would
have profound repercussions on the regional ecology, both due to an
acceleration of the rate of soil erosion and, also as a result of
the dam silting. To ensure against this possibility, the project
would completely restore the growth along the new river banks.
The environmental assessment identified three important
environmental benefits associated with the project activities.
First, and most concretely, by making water available for
irrigation, the project would introduce a sustainable economic
activity to the semi-arid region. Rural households would be able
to: (i) engage in sustainable agriculture; (ii) increase forage
production; and (iii) reduce extensive livestock grazing. Second,
the environmental assessment anticipated significant environmental
benefits to stem from the project's educational programs, which
would increase the public's appreciation for the value and
vulnerability of natural resources as well as provide instruction
concerning rational soil and water use practices. Thirdly, the
perennialization of the river downstream of the dam would have a
positive effective on maintaining the region's bio-diversity.
The assessment stressed the importance of sound local management of
the proposed infrastructure. For this reason, one of the project's
primary objectives would be to reinforce local users' associations
to increase their capacity to adequately manage, operate and
maintain the infrastructure.
14.     Program Objective and Poverty Categories. The program
objective categories for the proposed project are Environmentally
Sustainable Development and Poverty Alleviation. The proposed
project would establish guidelines for effective water resources
management which advocate the rational use and allocation of water
and support basin management and conservation activities, and hence
would promote environmentally sustainable development in Bahia. The
proposed project would also be part of the Bank's Program of
Targeted Interventions. The Northeast Region has the greatest
incidence of poverty in Brazil, and almost a quarter of the
region's poor live in Bahia, of which two-thirds live in the rural
areas. The project, which would concentrate infrastructure
development in the rural semi-arid region, would expand the access
of small subsistence farmers in the semi-arid zone to irrigation,
and thus would enhance their ability to generate income from
agriculture by increasing yields, diversifying production and
improving harvest quality. In addition, the project would improve
the social well-being of the population in the semi-arid region by
increasing their access to clean water.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
- 7-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 13, 1997.
- 8 -



