               Document of
             The World Bank




                                         Report No: 35591

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (CPL-42320 TF-29191)

                   ON A

                  LOAN

     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$51.0 MILLION

          TO THE STATE OF BAHIA

      FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                  FOR A

BAHIA WATER RESOUCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT




               June 28, 2006

                                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective March 24, 2006)

                                             Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                                   R$1.00 = US$ 0.4652
                                                 US$ 1.00 = R$2.1498

                                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                             January 1     December 31

                                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A, O&M    Administration, Operation and              PEACS     Programa de Educação Ambiental e Comunicação Social
          Maintenance                                          (Environmental Education and Social Communication Program)
APL       Adaptable Program Loan                     PGE       Procuradoria Geral do Estado (General State Controller)

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                PGRH      Projeto de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hídricos

CERB      Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahia     PHRD      Japan Policy and Human Resource Development Fund

CIRH      Conselho Institucional de Recursos         PIU       Project Implementation Unit
          Hídricos
CONAMA    Conselho Nacional do Meio Ambiente         PSB       Painel de Segurança de Barragens
CONERH    Conselho Estadual de Recursos Hídricos     PSR       Project Status Report
          (State Water Resource Council)
COMUA     Comissão de Usuários de Água (Water        QAG       Quality Assurance Group
          Users Commissions)
CRA       Centro de Recursos Ambientais              RAA       Região Administrativa da Água
CRNs      Natural Resources Houses                   RCC       Rolling Concrete Technology
DDF       Departamento de Desenvolvimento            SEAGRI    Secretaria de Agricultura, Irrigação e Reforma Agrária
          Florestal
DO        Development Objective
DSC       Dam Safety Committee                       SEINFRA   Secretaria de Infra-estrutura
EMBASA    Empresa Baiana de Águas e Saneametno       SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejamento
          S.A.
EOP       End of Project                             SG        State Government

FERHBA    Fundo Estadual de Recursos Hídricos da     SIR       Superintendência de Irrigação
          Bahia
FERH      Fundo Estadual de Recursos Hídricos        SOE       Statement of Expenditure

GIS       Geographic Information System              SRH       Superintendência de Recursos Hídricos do Estado da Bahia

ICR       Implementation Completion Report           SRHSH     Secretaria de Recursos Hídricos, Saneamento e Habitação

IBGE      Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e        TA        Technical Assistance
          Estatística
IERR      Internal Economic Rate of Return           TTL       Task Team Leader

IP        Implementation Progress                    UGP       Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projecto (Project Coordination Unit)

NBF       Not-Bank financed                          WAR       Water Administrative Region

NPV       Net Present Value                          WRMP      Water Resources Management Plan

NGO       Non-Governmental Organization              WRM       Water Resources Management

O&M       Operation and Maintenance                  WUA       Water Users Association

PAD       Project Appraisal Document




                                            Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                                        Country Director      John Briscoe
                                          Sector Manager      Abel Mejia
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                  Musa S.C. Asad

                                           BRAZIL
                         Bahia Water Resources Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            46
Annex Borrower's ICR                                                             47

Project ID: P035728                                                  Project Name: Bahia Water Resources Management
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Musa S. C. Asad                                         TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Bahia Water Resources Management Project                 L/C/TF Number: CPL-42320; TF-29191
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (66%); Sub-national government administration (17%); Other social services
                            (17%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other urban
                            development (P); Environmental policies and institutions (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/25/1996                                     Effective: 03/03/1998
     Appraisal: 04/30/1997                                         MTR: 06/05/2000
      Approval: 09/11/1997                                      Closing: 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE OF BAHIA/SRHSH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               John Briscoe                                   Stefan Alber
Sector Manager:                 Abel Mejia                                     William Partridge
Team Leader at ICR:             Musa S.C. Asad                                 Peter Wittenberg and Luiz Gabriel Azevedo
ICR Primary Author:             Samuel Taffesse and Carolina
                                Hammond with inputs from
                                Daniel Gross and Larry Simpson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
     The project had four major objectives: "(a) to provide reliable and sustainable access to
     water for potable, municipal, industrial and irrigation uses in the Priority River Basins; (b) to
     promote participatory management and rational use of water resources; (c) to develop a
     sustainable system of administration, operation and maintenance for rural water supply and
     irrigation infrastructure; and (d) to establish and promote replicable models of integrated
     water resource management systems in the Priority River Basins."1 Although the PAD2
     identified the above four distinct objectives, they all were directed at supporting the effort of
     the Government of Bahia in improving its water resource management in the State.

General Background:

3.1.2 The incidence of rural poverty in Bahia was (and still is) one of the highest in Brazil:
     Bahia has the largest number of poor households in Northeast Brazil. Scarcity of water
     aggravates and perpetuates rural poverty by limiting the production of poor farmers to
     vagaries of undependable rainfall, lack of clean water for human consumption and by taxing
     the poor, especially women extra labor and time for fetching water. As indicated in the
     PAD, data from 1995 showed that less than 10% of the rural population had access to safe
     water and only 25% had proper residential sanitation facilities prior to the project. Only
     11% of the 1,466.000 ha of irrigable land was under irrigation. The State along with the
     Municipal and Federal Government assisted the inhabitants of this semi-arid Northeast
     region with: (i) the delivery of water by trucks (carros pipa); (ii) civil work programs to
     ensure employment for the drought-affected populations; and (iii) the Cesta Básica (Food
     supplement) Program. The State also supported small-scale rural community water supply
     systems in the semi-arid region through Produzir ­ a Community Driven Development
     Program (Bank-funded project).     3 Nonetheless, chronic water problems persisted which
     demanded immediate resolution not only for human consumption but also to address
     poverty in the semi-arid Bahia.

3.1.3 Bahia suffered from deficient Water Resource Management (WRM) system: While the
     coastal zone, where rainfall is high and reliable, has abundant water, the majority of the
     State lies within the Northeast Drought Polygon and is subject to annual and cyclical
     droughts. The shortage of water was complicated by poor water resource management.
     The lack of sustainable recovery of operation and maintenance (O&M) costs for water
     resources infrastructure meant a continued deterioration of the system, aggravating the
     water problem. There was a need for effective water management to optimize the allocation
     and use of water resources throughout the State, to mitigate water conflicts stemming from
     competing uses and relieve water scarcities affecting the semi-arid rural areas. Cognizant of
     these weaknesses, in 1995, the State Government (SG) began to prepare a comprehensive
     water resource management plan to resolve its complex water problems, under the
     Department of Water Resources, Sanitation and Housing (SRHSH). As a result, the State
     upgraded the Water Resources Coordination within the SRHSH to a Water Resources
     Directorate (Superintendencia de Recursos Hidrícos -- SRH).              The SRH was given
     responsibility for water resources planning and management, including technical studies,


                                                - 2 -

     inventory, and registry of water users, issuance of water permits, hydrologic and
     meteorological monitoring and maintainenance of a hydrologic database. In addition, the
     State committed to the decentralization of water resource management.

3.1.4 Institutional Weakness and Lack of Inter-Sectoral Coordination contributed to the
     deficient WRM:       SRH lacked legal and political authority to coordinate the various
     water-related agencies and their respective water programs.               It was believed that
     decentralization was fundamental to promoting efficiency, stakeholder involvement (creating
     a sense of beneficiary ownership) and ensuring sustainable O&M cost recovery.                  To
     overcome this problem the SG planned to introduce an inter-sectoral approach to water
     resource management, which was also in line with the Bank's Water Resource Management
     Policy Paper of 1993.

3.1.5 Improving the reliability of water supply, infrastructure works was deemed necessary:
     Given that the Northeast suffered from drought and is characterized by intermittent rainfall,
     construction of dams and reservoirs to store and distribute water was deemed necessary.
     The infrastructure work was planned to attend the demand of different users to maximize
     the return from the construction investment. In addition, the project planned to rehabilitate
     some structures that were in derelict condition due to poor management and maintenance.

3.1.6 Therefore, an integrated approach of WRM was believed to lead to a more efficient and
     sustainable use of the State's water resource and infrastructures.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1 The objectives of the project remained the same throughout the project implementation due
     to their relevance to improving WRM in the State of Bahia.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Water resource management (US$30 million or 35.0% of total project cost)

3.3.1. This component was aimed at providing technical and financial resources to strengthen the
       State, basin and user-level institutions to manage water resources in a rational and efficient
       manner. Activities under this component included:

       a) Strengthening of the Borrower's institutions which are involved in Project
       implementation activities, and of Water Users Associations (WUAs), with emphasis on
       those in the priority river basins, to manage water resources in a sustainable and efficient
       manner through the provision of technical assistance, training programs and equipment.

       b) Institutional reorganization of SRH to appropriately manage the Borrower's water
       resources, focusing initially on the priority river basins, through, inter alia: (i) enhancement
       and stabilization of water supplies; (ii) coordination of the administration, operation and
       maintenance of water resources infrastructure; (iii) promotion of sound environmental
       strategies for water resource management, including water quality standards; and (iv)
       encouragement of efficient water usage, through allocation and enforcement of water


                                                 - 3 -

        rights, provision of support aiming at resolving conflicts on water use and management
        issues, implementation of cost-recovery mechanisms, collection of tariffs, execution of
        water users' education programs; and provision of technical assistance, training and
        equipment.

        c) Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to enable water users to
        participate in WRM and administer, operate and maintain water resources infrastructure.

        d) Development of a strong public information and user education program to ensure
        stakeholder involvement in water resource management and conservation.

Component 2: Infrastructure Investments in the Priority River Basins (US$55 million or
65% of total project cost)

3.3.2 This component was aimed at financing infrastructure investments (subprojects) in the
      Itapicuru and Paraguaçu River Basins, including resettlement programs for the Ponto Novo,
      Bandeira de Melo and Pindobaçu subprojects.

3.3.3 More specifically this component aimed to finance the construction and rehabilitation of
      reservoir and water resources distribution infrastructures in the Itapicuru and Paraguaçu
      River Basins. The selection of investments was based on well-defined economic, technical,
      and environmental criteria, as well as on social and environmental assessments. All
      infrastructure investments were expected to be consistent with the basin's WRM Plan. To
      identify the project's infrastructure investments, the component was expected to evaluate
      proposals from the standpoint of their economic and financial sustainability, technical merit,
      and social and environmental impacts. During the first year of the project, the component
      aimed to support the construction of water infrastructure for the Ponto Novo system, as
      well as the Tucano groundwater and canal systems.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1 There were no revisions to the components of the project. However, there were three
      amendments to the Loan Agreement. The first amendment (April 27, 1999) increased the
      disbursement percentage financed by the Bank for Category 1 "Goods" from 75% to 100%
      of foreign expenditures, while maintaining the percentage of local expenditures at 75%.

3.4.2 The second amendment (December 10, 2002) extended the closing date of the project for 2
      years, from December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2004. The third amendment (December
      20, 2004) extended the closing date for additional nine months, from December 31, 2004 to
      September 30, 2005, bringing cumulative extensions to 33 months. The extension was
      granted to allow the full completion of activities and works that were delayed by a range of
      factors including a strike in one of the agencies responsible for the works.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 As observed by QAG, the project was ready for implementation after effectiveness and the
      components of the project were well aligned to the achievement of the project objectives.



                                                  - 4 -

     The main components related to institutional development and the investments proposed for
     the completion of a dam, resettlement and the irrigation development subcomponents were
     ready for implementation.

3.5.2 The project design addressed the main problems the State of Bahia faced in the semi-arid
     region. The State Government's Multi-annual Plan for the 1996­1999 included, among
     others, modernizing public administration; improving the life of the neediest and most
     vulnerable population; ensuring access to better quality basic social services; and sustainable
     development with environmental preservation and the improvement of the standard of living
     in cities and rural areas. Thus the project design reflected the Governement's priorities. In
     addition, the Government formulated a new water law and established the SRH, actions that
     were critical for the implementation of this project.

3.5.3 The project design also reflected the 1993 Bank's water strategy and the CAS for Brazil.
     The project design identified most of the relevant risks the project might face and staff of
     Project Coordination Unit (UGP) were trained in Bank procedures before project
     effectiveness. Project preparation was supported by several studies, which, among others,
     identified priority areas for intervention. To ensure that the project implementation started
     from acceptable and satisfactory base, the project team put in place effectiveness conditions,
     out of which the most important was the establishment of inter-institutional council to
     overcome the lack of coordination among agencies involved in WRM in Bahia.

    Thus, the design at entry is rated Satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project overall impact and outcomes

4.1.1 The overall outcome of the Project is rated as satisfactory since all the relevant project
      objectives were achieved. As noted in detail below, the project managed to bring a positive
      change in the life of a large section of the population in the pilot basin region, effectively
      addressed poverty, revitalized the rural economy, modernized and transformed the main
      water agency (SRH) and improved the institutional capacity of other agencies involved in
      water sector, contributed to health improvement, piloted and perfected a model that can be
      replicated in other river basins in the State of Bahia.

4.1.2  A total of 95,430 inhabitants of rural Bahia directly benefited from the provision of
      dependable supply of water for human consumption and irrigation agriculture and from
      other activities initiated by the project. An estimated 1.7 million people are believed to
      have benefited indirectly from the project. In the pilot areas in which this project was
      active, several small towns saw their economy revitalized due to the catalytic role the
      project played. As a result, there are signs of labor shortages that have reduced emigration
      as opportunity in the region is expanded. A total of 2,600 new jobs were created directly
      within the irrigation district alone and 3,900 jobs indirectly. The average monthly income
      of the population in the area has now reached 91.7% of the minimum monthly salary in



                                                 - 5 -

      Bahia, a very high level income compared to other similar regions in the State. The
      Municipal Seat of Ponto Novo, for example, has nearly doubled in population.

4.1.3 The life of 87 farming families, who opted for resettlement in irrigated agricultural land,
      was completely transformed through a provision of comprehensive packages that includes
      provision of irrigated land, modern houses with electricity, agricultural technical advice,
      marketing support, provision of training in O&M, supply of dependable and safe water and
      other amenities. These beneficiary farmers are now managers of their farms responsible for
      O&M and have transformed from subsistence producers to high value product farmers for
      market. Although the improvement in income was not systematically captured to show the
      economic status of these new farmers, it was witnessed during a field observation that there
      is a complete transformation in the living standard of these farmers ­ from farmers living in
      dire poverty to producers to market and consumers of high value items. The proxy
      indicators show the following: 11 families have washing machines, 58 bought freezer, 51
      have color televisions of which 41 operate with satellite dishes, 13 families use cellular
      phones, among others, which testify to the transformation this project managed to bring
      about in the life of poor farmers in Ponto Novo.

4.1.4 These resettled irrigation farmers are now investing in their farms by extending their
     irrigation farms from two to five hectares --- the project provided these beneficiary farmers
     with five hectares of land with two hectares irrigated. The support included technical advice
     in production of high value products, establishment of Irrigation District headquarters,
     Association Headquarters, Health Post, and expanded day-care center and recreation area of
     very high quality public amenities unheard of in the region. In addition to the reduced
     burden on women from fetching water, the project undertook a targeted gender
     intervention.   In Ponto Novo, for example, the project supported the production and
     marketing of flower to nearby markets that is fully operated and managed by women.

4.1.5 Additional impacts include the reduction in the incidence of water-borne disease due to the
      improved supply and increased coverage of clean water provision. Diarrhea, for example,
      reduced from 69 cases in 1999 to 17 in 2005 (a 75% reduction) in the project pilot area.

4.1.6 The outcome of the project could have been easily rated as highly satisfactory if it were not
      for the reluctance of the State to implement water charges schemes. The projected target
      of benefiting 2,000 small irrigation farmers was not achieved due to change in the
      Government's strategy that opted to auction irrigation land to small commercial farmers.
      The slow implementation pace the project showed in 1999 and 2000 was another factor for
      not rating the project outcome as highly satisfactory.

Achievements of objectives

4.1.7 The project had four specific objectives and has successfully met the target set for these
      objectives. The achievements of these specific objectives are better assessed through
      evaluating the progress made in each of the specific objective of the project.




                                               - 6 -

A.      Provide reliable and sustainable access to water for potable, municipal, industrial and
irrigation uses in priority river basins of the State of Bahia, Brazil, primarily in areas with
high concentration of poor rural households.

4.1.8 The project operated in three river basins; namely Itapicuru, Paraguaçu and Verde-Jacaré.
       Although these basins were priority areas, the project as designed was planned to intervene
       in the Itapicuru basin but managed to be operational in the three basins.

4.1.9 Before this project, 43,364 inhabitants in the Itapicuru River Basin had access to potable
       water but the reliability was of low order given the lack of storage and the dependence of
       the system on rainfed runoff in the semi-arid Northeast Brazil. Through the construction of
       two well conceived dams and one major groundwater distribution system, the project
       improved dependability and access to water both for human use and for irrigation
       agriculture. The project managed to provide a reliable clean water for 84,449 inhabitants
       (benefiting more than 41,000 additional beneficiaries or an increase of 95%) and higher
       than the target of 81,508 (104% of the original target) in seven municipalities and 51
       districts. The total supply of water was increased from 58.75 to 196 litters/second (a 233%
       increase) through the construction of a dam at Ponto Novo and the tapping of the Tucano
       sedimentary aquifer that allowed storing and managing the flow including the collection of
       runoff from the upper basin. As part of provision of potable water, the project increased
       the capacity of clean water treatment facilities that are planned to satisfy the demand for
       potable water for the next 20 years. Also, as part of the development of the Ponto Novo
       dam, waste management plans were developed and implemented. The project brought a
       total of 2,645 ha of land under irrigation (compared to the appraisal estimate of 1600 ha, as
       shown in Annex 1).

4.1.10 There were 87 families (out of a total of 200 resettled families) who opted for small
        irrigation plots rather than self-resettlement or cash compensation, occupying a total of
        some 500 ha. and who are now thriving (see above). The irrigation perimeter was
        expanded in a second phase to include an additional 2,000 ha that were auctioned off to
        some 62 farmers on long-term leases.         While the decision to lease irrigated land to
        larger-scale farmers benefited fewer farmers, it will probably result in significant job
        creation4 in the area as well as consolidating Ponto Novo's status as a hub for fruit and
        vegetable production. An additional 42 five-hectare lots were reserved for additional
        resettled families displaced by the Phase II expansion. Farmers involved in the Phase II
        expansion began production as the project closed so it is too early to assess the outcome
        of this phase of Ponto Novo Irrigation.

4.1.11 The Ponto Novo reservoir was also opened up for recreational use, with project funding,
        with the establishment of two waterside recreational centers on the shore of the reservoir.
        Furthermore the two reservoirs in the Itapicuru basin are operated using modern
        technology (decision support system) to optimize releases and to minimize shortages along
        the demand spectrum.




                                                 - 7 -

B.     Promote participatory management and rational use of water resources in the State of
Bahia.

4.1.12 The project supported the establishment of regulatory and institutional frameworks to
       formulate and implement efficient and sustainable water resource management policies and
       plans that promoted participation by: (i) strengthening seven State institutions, and three
       basin-level organizations, and 63 local water-user Organizations; (ii) introducing
       mechanisms to promote efficient resource use and allocation, including user rights; (iii)
       installing a hydrometerological monitoring and information network; and (iv) conducting
       170 public education events regarding rational water resource use and management.
       Towards the achievement of this objective, the project supported the creation of 10
       decentralized water resource management offices across the State. The implementation of
       the resettlement plan was fully participatory with each family's preference taken as the
       final choice. The project fully informed the displaced families on the potential benefit of
       the project and consulted them on alternatives.

4.1.13 The construction of the dams in strategically selected sites rationalized water use by
       integrating the different activities from provision of water for human use to irrigated
       agriculture, while at the same time satisfying the ecological need in the basin. However,
       the introduction of tariffs and taxes to promote the rational use of water remained
       contentious and delayed since the government was concerned that such a measure would
       have negative political consequences. However, the project defined two types of charges:
       (i) bulk water charge on the use of water from reservoirs operated by SRH; and (ii) charge
       for use of natural flowing and groundwater water from the State's river basins. Law No.
       8194/02 created the State Water Resource Fund (Fundo Estadual de Recursos Hídricos
       da Bahia ­ FERHBA). However, the Fund has not become operational to date. Water
       use charges for potable and industrial water delivered from storage facilities under
       operation of the SRH have been agreed to and endorsed by the Governor5. These charges
       are planned to be implemented in 2006 and the proceeds will fund the operation and
       maintenance of selected facilities as well as contribute to FERHBA.

C.     Develop sustainable administration, operation and maintenance systems for rural
water supply and irrigation infrastructure

4.1.14 To administer O&M, the project established users' organizations and irrigation district.
       O&M of common canals is done by irrigation districts. The project trained farmers in
       operating micro-sprinkler systems in their farm. Farmers are fully responsible for the cost
       and labor of O&M within their individual plots. In addition, sufficient human resources
       within municipalities are trained and organized both for O&M and to administer the water
       supply system. The project supported the establishment of cost recovery mechanisms
       based on the user pays principle. Although, at this point, the full O&M costs of the Ponto
       Novo system are not covered by users (it accounts for 30% of the O&M costs), after
       awarding new irrigation areas to larger farmers it is expected that the full O&M cost in the



                                               - 8 -

      irrigation district will be borne by users. Since sustainable administration requires
      improving institutional capacity both in terms of human resource and establishment of a
      system, the project supported system establishments and provided relevant TA and
      training to all relevant bodies. The project also supported construction of offices for the
      Ponto Novo Water District, and facilities for the local water users association.

D.    Develop a model to be used for the rest of the River Basins within Bahia.

4.1.15 The project supported the development of several small models, guidelines, norms and
      procedures in resettlement and dam construction.           The project also supported the
      development of theoretical and information system based models that can be replicated at
      state level. The Ponto Novo dam construction and the associated resettlement works are
      the principal outcome that could serve as a model in other projects and in scaling-up this
      operation6. The project also managed to develop an integrated system of on-farm and
      other supporting activities to support poor rural farmers. This approach although aimed at
      ensuring that resettled families receive a lasting compensation and fully developed their
      irrigated land into viable farms ­ a methodology that can be equally applicable for rural
      development. The project also developed decision-making model, ModSimLS, supported
      through the Geographic Information System (GIS). The model has been applied to the
      Itapicuru and Paraguaçu basins. Other instruments such as environmental education and
      dam construction design and specifications are standards that the project developed. The
      resettlement and dams construction models adapted under this project are now considered
      a `best practice' by environmentalists and social scientists working in the region.

Overall Project Relevance

4.1.16 Relevance: The main relevance of the project is that it contributed to the development of
      a rational system of resource allocation in an environment of scarcity. While not fully
      achieved, the project made significant contributions to the development of an institutional
      and regulatory framework that provides better mechanisms for allocation of water
      resources. The project is relevant to the socio-economic development of the State of
      Bahia and to the Brazilian Government. It is highly relevant to the rural poor of Bahia
      who live in semi-arid region whose development efforts was frustrated with lack of
      reliable water supply both for human use and irrigated agriculture.           The project is
      consistent both with the CAS during the project preparation (Report No. 16582-BR) that
      emphasized poverty alleviation, efficient resource allocation, environmentally sustainable
      development and lending directly to Brazilian States; and with the current CAS 2004-2007
      (Report No. 27043-BR) that has as one of its pillars "a more sustainable Brazil" that will
      help in reducing poverty through, inter alia, "enhanced and more equitable access to urban
      and rural basic services such as water supply and sanitation, better water quality and water
      resource management..."7

4.1.17 Efficiency: The cost-benefit analysis done as part of this ICR (see Annex 3 for detail) on
      construction works (Ponto Novo and Tucano) reveals that in irrigation the economic
      internal rate of return for Ponto Novo was estimated at 30.3%, fairly close to the appraisal



                                                - 9 -

       estimate of 32.3% but still a respectful high return. In water supply for human use, the
       returns were 22.4% for Ponto Novo (compared to the appraisal estimate of 24%) and for
       Tucano 45.8% (compared to PAD's 32.8%). In irrigation, the project supported the
       establishment of a sprinkler irrigation that has now evolved into drip irrigation that has
       contributed to the efficient water utilization. As the tariff system that is now put in place
       becomes operational, farmers will be faced with added economic incentive to be more
       efficient in their water use.

4.1.18 Efficacy: As described above all the specific objectives of the project were successfully
       achieved. The project initially planned to construct one dam but finally managed to
       construct three and became a model for replicating in the construction of a fourth dam.
       As noted above, most of the major targets established during appraisal were successfully
       achieved and in most cases surpassed the target (see Annex 1).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Water resource management (US$19.3 million or 64% of the appraisal
estimate). Satisfactory

4.2.1 This component provided technical and financial resources to strengthen the State's
     institutions and water user's organizations to efficiently manage water resources in the State
     of Bahia.     It also financed training and technical assistance to enable administration,
     operation and maintenance of water infrastructure in the three priority basins.            The
     component achieved the following main outputs: (i) strengthened several institutions; (ii)
     improved coordination of water resource management activities; (iii) established a
     decentralized water resource management; (iv) established a model for water rights
     administration system; and (v) implemented an integrated hydro-meteorological information
     system for priority river basins. Table 1 provides a summary of main achievments of this
     component -- details are given in Annex 1.

       Table 1. Component 1: Programmed and Executed Targets


           Planned activity                             Unit        Planne    Revised
                                                                    d         (2002)     Executed

            Additional association of resettled
            irrigators                                  number             1          4             4

            Increase in the number of water use
            rights granted                              number         6500        6500          7258

            Water user associations created             number             1          3             4
            Creation of Water Administrative
            Regions                                     number            10         10            10

            Establishment of rainfall measurement
            stations                                    number            70         70           120

            Deployment of river flow measurement
            stations (automatic and conventional)       number            37         55            77




                                                - 10 -

4.2.2 Under this component, the project supported SRH in: (i) revising the water legislation,
     which established its organizational structure, defined its mandate and provided its
     administrative and financial autonomy; (ii) preparing the legislation of the SWM Plan; (iii)
     establishing a database, administrative and institutional dissemination systems, and WRM
     information system; (iv) hiring of 47 regular professional staff and establishing of a roster of
     highly-qualified consultant team to assist with planning and monitoring of works and
     operations and maintenance of dams and water resource management; and (v) modernizing
     SRH through the purchase of computer programs, vehicles and field monitoring,
     measurement and control equipment.

4.2.3 The creation and strengthening of 10 Water Administrative Regions (WARs), 100% of
     appraisal estimate, each corresponding to major watersheds, and covering most of the State
                                                                   8


     of Bahia, subsequently transformed into the "Natural Resource Houses (CRNs)", that
     facilitated the integration and coordination of activities at municipalities' level, were
     implemented under this component. The project also supported the establishment of Water
     Users Associations (WUAs) in areas where there were no associations. In Ponto Novo, for
     example, four WUAs were established (compared to one WUA planned during appraisal, as
     given in Annex 1).

4.2.4 The approach taken by this project was participatory, involving the beneficiaries (direct and
     indirect users and the public sector) and provided legal support to councils, water basins
     committees, water resources users Associations.         As part of the preparation of the
     legislature, institutional arrangements were defined and are now operational.

4.2.5 In technical support to the establishment of an improved WRM, an information system was
     implemented that included the installation, operation and maintenance of the first State
     hydro-meteorological network, database, Geographical Information System (GIS) and
     systems to support decision making including decision support systems for reservoir
     operation and water rights issuance. These allowed SRH to monitor more efficiently the
     processes of granting water use rights and operation of reservoirs. The main specific
     activities accomplished included: (i) the installation of hydro-meteorological system in 209
     stations; (ii) establishment of GIS that is supporting the analysis, processing and
     systematizing of hydrologic information; (iii) implementation of monitoring system of
     surface water resources in the Itapicuru, Verde/Jacaré and Alto Paraguaçu river basins; and
     (iv) cadastres of water infrastructure users and granting of water user rights.

4.2.6 In training activities and information dissemination, 4720 people were trained in themes
     related to WRM that included: (i) ground water development; (ii) two environmental
     education and social communication programs aimed at children and adolescents; (iii)
     technical courses in dam O&M, and TA to irrigators and resettled farmers. A total of 330
     training events were carried out by multipliers and a total of 236,000 publications were
     disseminated.




                                               - 11 -

Component 2: Infrastructure Investments in the Priority River Basins (US$66.0 million or
120% of the appraisal estimate). Satisfactory

4.2.7 The infrastructure component financed the construction of dams, rehabilitation of reservoir
     and water resources distribution infrastructure in the three river basins ­ Itapicuru,
     Paraguaçu and Verde-Jacaré, priority areas with the most critical need for water
     infrastructure. While in the case of the first two basins the project financed infrastructural
     works, in Verde-Jacaré the support was limited to studies for future intervention. The initial
     investment selection especially in Itapicuru basin was based on well-defined economic,
     technical, and environmental criteria as well as on social and environmental impact
     assessments. All infrastructure investments were consistent with the basin's WRM Plan
     (WRMP). The following table summarizes the initial plan, the revised targets and actual
     execution under this component.

     Table 2. Structural Component ­ Programmed and Executed Targets


      Planned activity                          Unit        Programmed      Revised
                                                                            (2002)       Executed

      Feasibility studies for dam
      construction                              dam                     0            5              5

      Environmental     studies    for  dam
      construction                              dam                     1            6              6

      Dam construction                          dam                     1            3              3
      Studies of water supply system            document                2            2              2
      Construction of water supply system       Km                   114           355            496
      Irrigation projects                       Project                 1            1              1
      Construction of irrigation system         hectare             1,600        2,540          2,540
      Rehabilitation and O&M of existing
      water structures                          dam                     1            5              5

      Other interventions - Electrification     Kw                      0         13.8           13.8


4.2.8 However, the selection of Bandeira de Melo (construction work to be completed in April
     2006) and Pindobaçu (completed in March 2005) took relatively more time and some
     observers question the economic significance of these two dams. The State and UGP
     justified the construction work of the Pindobaçu dam on the need to regulate the water flow
     of Ponto Novo and to provide a future reliable water supply to the City of Jacobina. How
     much additional regulation needed above Ponto Novo may not have been a clear priority.
     However, the need to supply additional reliable water to the growing population of Jacobina
     was clearly needed. The justification given for the Bandeira de Melo dam was related to the
     provision of water for irrigated agriculture and dependable water supply to surrounding
     small towns. However, the hierarchy of this priority when compared to other river basins of
     the States may be questionable.

4.2.9 Specific activities carried out under this component included:



                                                 - 12 -

        Ponto Novo System
        i       construction of a dam with reservoir capacity of approximately 40m3 million of
        water;
        ii      installation of the irrigation system for 2,540 hectares;
        iii     implementation of water supply system to the towns of Ponto Novo, Filadélfia and
        Caldeirão Grande and the locality of Jacaré, directly benefiting 51,000 inhabitants;
        iv      resettled 213 families (863 people) out of which 87 families opted for small
        irrigation plots rather than self-resettlement or cash compensation
        v       implemented electrification program with an installed capacity of 13.8Kw;

4.2.10 Tucano Project- This work installed water infrastructure, extended water supply services
        to the Northeast municipal headquarters of Cansanção and Quijingue and to more than 29
        localities. The infrastructure work included upgrading the service to localities in the
        municipality of Euclides da Cunha, benefiting 33,400 inhabitants. These works increased
        water supply by a volume of 100 l/s.

4.2.11 In addition to what was planned during appraisal, the project constructed the Pindobaçu
      dam, that will improve the water supply by 1.59 m3/s; the Bandeira de Melo dam, which is
      under construction with a capacity to supply 18.83 m3/s water upon completion;

4.2.12 In rehabilitation of existing water infrastructures the project elaborated five O&M manuals
      for water infrastructure, rehabilitated two dams and conducted five feasibility studies that
      elaborated five dam projects, and conducted five environmental assessments and two
      resettlement studies as part of these dams' feasibility studies.

4.2.13 Recuperation of riparian forests was planned to compensate for ecological and
      environmental impact of the construction of the dams. The project supported: (i) the
      replanting of 134 ha of riparian forests with the planting of 120,000 seedlings; (ii)
      constructed 8 plant nurseries for future environment improvement of the region; (iii)
      established 41 sampling points to monitor water quality that resulted in 274 analyses
      carried out in five reservoirs and 4,271 analyses in the additional 44 monitoring points in
      the Itapicuru, Paraguaçu and Verde/Jacaré river basins.

4.2.14 Table 1, above, shows that all original targets under this component were fully met or
        exceeded during the implementation of the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 Using the Minimum Impact Approach,9 the PAD evaluated the economic feasibility of the
        water resource management component and the traditional benefit-cost methodology for
        the infrastructure component.        In addition, the PAD conducted estimates of internal
        economic rates (IERR) for two infrastructure sub-projects (Ponto Novo and Tucano).
        This ICR conducted the same exercise to allow comparison.

4.3.2 The ex-post evaluation of the water resource management component found out that the



                                                  - 13 -

       annual flow of benefit reached US$19.4 million, close to the ex-ante estimation of US$20.6
       million. Annual cost of the management of water resources, on average was US$2.48
       million, close to the ex-ante evaluation of US$2.5 million. Thus the ex-post benefit-cost
       ratio stood at 7.88, which is slightly lower than the appraisal estimate of 8.24 percent.

4.3.3 The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of infrastructure project was estimated at
       26.4%, less than the appraisal estimate of 29.5% but significantly higher the 12% discount
       rate thereby justifying the investment made. The financial rate of return resulted in a rate of
       return of 23.5% slightly lower than the 27.3% estimated during appraisal.

4.3.4 The ex-post evaluation also conducted cost-benefit analysis for two subprojects following
       the methodology adapted by the PAD. For Ponto Novo, the ex-post net present value was
       estimated at US$48 million with an IERR of 28.5%. The IERR was divided between
       irrigation and water supply (See Table 3). For Ponto Novo both IERRs were less than the
       appraisal estimate but at 30.3% for irrigation and at 22.4% for water supply, the investment
       was highly justifiable. In case of Tucano the irrigation benefit has yet to start to accrue,
       since infrastructure work was completed in December 2005. However, for the water
       supply, Tucano shows almost double IERR (191% of the appraisal estimate) at 45.8%,
       again justifying the investment.

             Table 3. Internal Economic Rate of Return­IERR
        Benefit                 ex ante (PAD p. 29)                       Ex post
                                Ponto Novo                      Ponto Novo                     Tucano
   Irrigation                   32.2%                           30.3%                          -
    Water Supply                24.0%                           22.4%                          45.8%



4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 The appraisal estimated a financial rate of return of 27.3% for infrastructure projects with
        net financial benefits of US$31 million. Evaluation made as part of this ICR estimated the
        financial rate of return at 23.5% with an estimated net financial benefit of US$25.6 million.
        The ex-post evaluation also estimated the fiscal gain at US$14 million, higher than the
        appraisal estimate of US$10 million. The lower than expected water tariff revenue was
        componsated for by higher income tax and other related revenues. (see Annex 3 for
        assumptions and details of the ex-post analysis).

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 The project supported the strengthening and consolidation of water agencies and the
        definition of the rules and regulation of the State's water policy including elaborating main
        instruments of the policy. This project transformed the SRH into a capable institution
        with appropriate staff mix of qualified professionals to discharge its institutional
        responsibilities. SRH as the institution responsible for water resource management has
        developed its management capacity and has put in place a system to involve all relevant
        stakeholders both at state and local level. In addition to SRH, the project supported the
        definition of the overall institutional responsibility in water resources, and aligned tasks
        with the appropriate agencies (state, regional or local). In general the rule of the game has



                                                   - 14 -

        become transparent and supports efficient and sustainable development and use of the
        water resources of the State.

4.5.2 SRH was established by Law 6.855/95 to manage water resources of the State. During the
        life of the project two main restructuring of SRH were conducted by the Government.
        The January 2002 law reorganized SRH with the aim to strengthen the institution and to
        make it compatible to the increased role SRH undertook and made the following
        provisions:

    i. made SRH the agency responsible for managing the State Water Resource Fund (Fundo
        Estadual de Recursos Hídricos ­ FERH) and also specified the purpose and activities for
        which the fund can be utilized (from the collected water charges the Fund will retain 15%
        -- out of which 7.5% of the charges will be transferred to the SRH to cover the
        management fees of the Fund -- and will deposit 85% into the account of the respective
        river basin, or aquifer, where the charges originate). The law also specified the sources
        for water revenues: (a) charges for the use of the waters under State domain; (b) royalties
        for the exploitation of the natural resources or financial compensation; and (c) donations
        and others eventual resources;
    ii. authorized the collection of charges for water under the State domain;
   iii. created within SRH management responsibility for coordinating the management,
        operations and financial administration;
   iv. specified the composition of CONERH (State Water Resource Council ­ Conselho
        Estadual de Recursos Hidricos) that included: (a) public agencies -- SEAGRI (Secretary
        of Agriculture, Irrigation and Agricultural Reform), SEINFRA (Secretary of
        Infrastructure), SEPLAN (Secretary of Planning), PGE (General State Controller ­
        Procuradoria Geral do Estado), and Director General of SRH; (b) representative of the
        Union of Bahia's Municipalities; and (c) four representatives of the users of water from
        sanitation, hydroelectric generation, irrigation and industry sectors.

4.5.3   In June 2005, the SRH organizational structure was revised in line with the new
       responsibilities for decentralization, among others, for O&M of water infrastructure in the
       State. This second restructuring further consolidated the 2002 legislation by creating
       specific sectors and forming three Directorates for: (i) Regulation; (ii) Regional
       management; and (iii) Engineering. These two laws not only further strengthened SRH by
       clearly defining responsibilities and establishing specialized departments but also provided
       the legal bases for this structure.

4.5.4 It is testimony to the institutional transformation the SRH has achieved that it become the
       first and only Brazilian State water agency to be certified by ISO 9001:2000, which is the
       most commonly used international standard that provides a framework for a quality
       management system. At the outset of the project, Bahia had a fairly mediocre water rights
       administration system. With the support of the project, the State has developed what is
       now considered the most efficient and effective water rights administration system in
       Brazil.




                                                 - 15 -

4.5.5 The project supported the integration of SRH's activities into a holistic institutional task
      that includes implementation of dam construction, establishing water distribution networks,
      resettlement of affected people; and recognized and attended the different demand for
      water for: ecological, agricultural, human use, including recreational needs. On the supply
      side, SRH has compiled data on surface and groundwater resource balance within the
      State. In groundwater, SRH not only conducted a preliminary survey of the potential, risks
      and vulnerability of aquifers in the State but also designed and developed the Tucano water
      supply system. On the demand side, SRH worked with all the relevant stakeholders and
      responsible agencies for agriculture, urban and rural water supply system.              Such a
      comprehensive and holistic approach to water was made possible due to the improved
      institutional capacity and knowledge base created in the management of water resource that
      this project supported SRH in the last eight years.

4.5.6 SRH has organized an excellent database on the water resource of the State and an
      Integrated Hydro-metrological Information System that support the decision-making
      process. The database at the disposal of SRH include data derived from the monitoring of
      rivers and reservoirs water levels, hydro-meteorological and hydro-chemical analysis,
      quality of water, cartography of Municipalities with administrative regions of water and
      basins; socio-economic data of water users, etc., deployed using various software systems,
      including GIS and other systems to manipulate the data. The project also supported the
      implementation of an information system of water resource that included installation,
      operation and maintenance of primary hydrometric networks across the State that provides
      data on river flows, reservoir levels, rainfall and other hydrological data on a real time
      basis.   The project supported the development of a decision-making model called
      ModSimLS, that was applied to the Itapicuru and Paraguacu sub-basins and was found to
      be successful in supporting SRH's activities. The overall impact of the establishment of
      these monitoring networks and information system is an improvement in the efficiency of
      the organizations involved in WRM both in terms of time required to arrive at decisions
      and to provide timely interventions since the system has the capacity to provide early
      warnings, such as high flow levels in rivers or a sudden drop in water level of reservoirs.

4.5.7 The project supported the revision of the water law that, among others, defined the roles
      and responsibilities of the agencies involved in water management. Thus, the project
      supported the strengthening of the 10 Water Administrative Regions that cover almost all
      watersheds of the State and integrating the activities at local level that will support a
      decentralized decision-making process with the participation of water users.

4.5.8 The project was cognizant of the fact that an improved water resource management in the
      State of Bahia can not be achieved by strengthening SRH alone but equally important was
      strengthening and supporting relevant agencies at all levels.         Accordingly, the project
      supported the strengthening and consolidation of water users associations (through the
      provision of office, computers and office equipment, better and reliable information,
      training in handling their accounts, O&M of their irrigation infrastructure and TA in
      adopting high value products) commission of water users, consortia of water users and five
      hydrographic river basin committees. Data from the project office indicate that in areas



                                               - 16 -

      where the project provided potable water, in seven municipalities and 51 districts, the
      management and monitoring of water resource was modernized. These institutions now
      have better trained professionals in administration, operation and maintenance of water
      infrastructure.

4.5.9 The project also supported the development of other instruments such as environmental
      education and dam construction design and specifications. The project established a Dam
      Safety Committee (DSC) composed of high level professionals in the field. This committee
      provided the necessary supervision in the implementation of dams from design to the
      different phases of construction. The need for establishing such a body was proved to be
      the right choice since this committee provided valuable input in improving design and
      construction of the dams during the implementation of this project.                The positive
      experience with the DSC is reflected by the fact that the State has expanded its work to
      dams not financed by the Bank and that the Government continues to work closely with the
      SRH following the closing of the World Bank loan agreement. Additionally, the SRH and
      other institutions have adapted new systems, not necessarily developed by this project, but
      through lessons learned from other similar endeavors, such as the Living Springs
      (Nascentes Vivas) initiative ­ a program based on positive experience in the State of Minas
      Gerais, pursued the mobilization of water users in various activities to preserve riparian
      vegetation to improve water quality and control erosion, among others.

4.5.10 Strengthening the institutional capacity in WRM was one of the aims of this project. To
      achieve this aim, the project envisaged to pilot and develop a model that was planned to be
      replicated in other river basins in the State. In fact, using the model and lessons learned
      through this project, the SRH has under implementation a similar dam project financed by
      the Government on its own.

4.5.11 Thus, this project transformed the institutional capacity of the State of Bahia in the
      management of water resource thereby addressing one of the rationale for this project. The
      project transformed SRH from a department into a semi-autonomous organization,
      improved the information and knowledge base on the water sector, established new bodies
      or organizations to consolidate and support the implementation of infrastructure and
      WRM, brought about an integrated approach to WRM with the participation of all relevant
      stakeholders, aligned activities of the different institutions to their role defined by law and
      developed models and systems replicable to other basins.           Therefore, the institutional
      impact of the project is rated Substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 Brazil experienced a financial problem during the implementation of this project that
     resulted in the devaluation of the Brazilian Real. The Loan was not reduced following the
     depreciation of the Real and therefore in terms of local currency the effective financial
     resources available were higher.           This allowed the SRH to undertake additional dam
     construction as an addendum to the original plan to construct only one dam.




                                                     - 17 -

5.1.2 The 2004 strike in one of the executing agencies (CERB) disrupted the pace of
      implementation. The strike effectively shut down all technical and administrative activities at
      the Pindobaçu and Bandeira de Melo dams for several months, severely slowing down
      disbursements. Additionally, there were demonstrations and protests against resettlement
      agreements from Dam-affected People's Movement (Movimentos dos Atingidos por
      Barragens), closing access to the dams' construction camp several times. The Tucano
      Rural Water Supply System construction was delayed due to problems encountered in the
      quality of the water from the drilled main well. The Foreign Commerce Department of the
      Federal Government imposed import restrictions on the purchase of new equipment from
      foreign suppliers in November 1998 that also delayed the modernization of the
      hydro-meteorological system.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 The lag in project implementation was due to, among others, the work load on the small
       project management team and delays by the authorities to redress this observed weakness.
       There was also a delay in finalizing the improved water law including the reorganization of
       SRH and establishment of FERH but, most importantly, the State failed to implement the
       bulk water tariff that was necessary to provide sufficient resources to cover the cost of
       administration and operation of the water agencies. Due to priority differences, compliance
       with and implementation of agreed actions by associated agencies responsible for project
       execution was, at times, substantially delayed. The use of other State agencies in the actual
       execution of works was originally necessary due the initial lack of capacity within the SRH.
       This situation was being addressed at the close of the project. The modifications that were
       brought about due to the changes in the legal arrangement had substantial impact on
       inter-institutional relations between relevant water agencies throughout project execution
       period.

5.2.2 Initially, given the commitment the government showed to the project, the six month delay
      between the Board approval and effectiveness of the project was the full responsibility of the
      Government. The transfer of federal dams within the boundaries of Bahia to the State
      government took a long time and, in the process, delayed the much needed rehabilitation
      work (or at least the studies of the feasibility) of these dams. While the project supported
      the decentralization of SRH (Natural Resource Houses ­ CRN), these offices were not
      initially adequately staffed with appropriate manpower. In addition, coordination with State
      environmental agencies of the Departamento de Desenvolvimento Florestal (DDF) and the
      Centro de Recursos Ambientais (CRA) did not mature.

5.2.3 The State government has shown commitment to the project throughout project
      implementation but with some delays in taking bold political decisions. The government
      should also have set strong early priorities to ensure the follow-up to this project was
      implemented without a break.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 The most critical stage in project implementation happened during 2000­2001 when
      disbursements fell sharply due to lack of proper planning. The main problems were
      inadequate staffing of SRH and the UGP, as well as poor coordination among project



                                                    - 18 -

     executing agencies.     PSR sequence # 8 stated that although implementation of the Ponto
     Novo irrigation system was the responsibility of SIR/SEAGRI, SRH nevertheless should
     have been more assertive in following-up and taking steps to speed-up the process.
     Streamlining disbursement and weakness in coordinating the implementation of the project
     were some of the factors that the project coordinating unit (UGP within SRH) showed early
     in project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1 The project disbursed the full Loan amount of US$51 million and utilized the full project
       cost (US$85 million). During the implementation of this project, the Brazilian Real was
       devalued, thus, on average, during the project life, the exchange rate was almost US$1 to
       R$2, unlike the prevailing exchange rate during appraisal ­ US$1 to R$1.05. This implies
       that in terms of the Brazilian Real, the Loan was almost double of the original amount.
       However,         using     the      Bank's       Development      Data       Platform      (
       http://ddp.worldbank.org/ddp/home.do) this ICR made an estimate of price increase using
       the GDP deflator. Between 1998 (project effectiveness year) and 2005, the price level
       rose by 79 percent, while comparable exercise using the consumer price index shows a
       74% rise for the same period. Taking the rise in the general price level, it is clear that
       most of the windfall from the devaluation was lost to inflation.

5.4.2 The cost composition indicate that the institutional component used only 64% of the initial
     cost allocation while the Infrastructure component cost stood at 120% of the appraisal
     estimate (see Table 4 below). It is the determination of this ICR that in essence the cost of
     institutional development was not much different from the PAD estimate since the cost
     elements of institutional component are not traded and thus were not affected by the
     devaluation but only by the rise in the overall price level.

5.4.3 The increase in the infrastructure cost is also justified by additional activities the project
     financed primarily the cost of additional dams construction.        Thus, the project team's
     decision not to reduce the total Loan amount is justified on the above grounds and due to
     the fact that the project was extended for a total of 33 months. In addition, the project was
     designed as the first step to a serious of interventions in the Bahia water sector with this
     project entrusted to develop the model that will be transferred to other river basins in the
     State.

     Table 4. Project Costs By Components (in US$ million equivalent)
     Project             Appraisal    Actual/Latest %of
     Component                                        Appraisal
    Institutional       30.0          19.3            64
    Infrastructure      55.0          66.0            120
    TOTAL                85.0         85.3            100.3


5.4.4 The Government contributed a little bit more than the PAD estimate (100.6% of appraisal)
     to the overall cost of the project. Considering these resources were denominated in US$ for
     comparison purpose, it is evident that in terms of Brazilian Real the Government
     contribution was much higher, demonstrating its commitment to the project and its



                                               - 19 -

     objectives. In addition, the beneficiaries (farmers, municipalities, water users and other
     executing agencies) invested as part of the implementation of this project but their
     contribution was not accounted for, as it was not included in the PAD .

5.4.5 Disbursement was formally revised to account for the lag and extension of the closing date.
     It is the observation of this ICR the initial disbursement estimate was optimistic. For FY
     1998, for example, the PAD projected a disbursement of almost US$13 million; i.e. with the
     project becoming effective in March 1998, it meant within three months, the project
     estimated very unrealistic disbursement. Probably that ambitious disbursement target was
     responsible for the early Bank mission reports commenting on SRH performance as slow in
     implementing the project notwithstanding the fact that in three-month period after
     effectiveness the project disbursed close to US$3 million ­ a good achievement compared to
     other similar projects and taking into consideration the fact that works in infrastructure
     require detailed design works before starting construction.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1 The project outcome is technically and financially resilient and the investments made will
     continue to operate and provide services. The institutional structure created has become
     part of the Secretariat of Environment and there is a general consensus on the arrangements
     established. In addition to the executing agencies' professionals, SRH staff supervised and
     monitored each work throughout the process and the Dam Safety Committee provided
     further additional supervision.       Farmers have become market oriented producers;
     municipalities are administering their water systems; settlers have further improved their
     dwellings and consolidated their gains.       Income generation activities, such as flower
     production and marketing, would ensure that gains by women have the economic incentive
     to participate in the project.       The participatory culture championed by SRH would
     contribute in the future active involvement of the beneficiaries.

6.1.2 The water supply system established is expected to attend the demand within the impacted
     basins for the next 20 years (taking in to account the historical river flows, rain, population
     dynamic and other related socio-economic improvements) with 95% of certainty. The
     project supported the government in establishing a high level dam committee to inspect and
     supervise the construction of the dams. Throughout the construction phase, this high level
     committee monitored the works and requested areas for improvement to ensure the
     technical resilience of the dams. This committee continues to provide ongoing support to
     the operation and maintenance of these facilities as well as oversight from a safety
     standpoint.

6.1.3 The project supplied five hectares of land for those who opted for irrigated agriculture with
     two hectares fully integrated with sprinkler irrigation. However, individual farmers have
     expanded their farms and it is also observed that they even want to expand beyond the five
     hectares of land they were provided. They are well trained and are effectively responsible
     for the O&M within their perimeters both for the cost and technical handling of the



                                               - 20 -

     irrigation infrastructure. The flow of income that these farmers are generating by producing
     high value products and the additional gains they made by cutting out the middle man would
     contribute to financial sustainability of their systems. This gain in income serving as an
     incentive would allow farmers to pay for the O&M of their irrigation districts. In fact,
     auctioning of additional irrigation farms to medium and large farmers will guarantee that the
     future O&M of the irrigation districts and associated TA costs will be covered by farmers.

6.1.4 Although the government was slow to enact the water charges, the creation of FERH is the
     sign that the State finally will generate sufficient resources to finance operation and
     administration cost of the water sector infrastructure maintenance and management. The
     decentralization of the institutional setup will also contribute to the future sustainability of
     the system by increasingly transferring the responsibility of direct management to the
     localities.

6.1.5 It is evident from the government actions that it is slowly moving towards water tariff
     system to finance the cost of operation and maintenance including management cost of the
     water agencies. The State took slow but measured steps to reach this level of institutional
     structure formation and there is no evidence to suggest that the reforms achieved will be
     reversed.

6.1.6 Thus, given the durability of the works done, the continuous flows of income that the
     project results will continue to generate into the foreseeable future, the observed farmers'
     interest to invest in their farms and considering the Government commitment to replicate the
     models developed through this project to other river basins, sustainability of the project is
     therefore rated Likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1 There is no need for a special transition arrangement since the activities initiated through
     this project are part of SRH legislated responsibilities. Thus, as a government entity, it has
     its annual budget to continue operating.

6.2.2 The Government's existing strategy is to expand the tested and perfected methodologies
     through the support of this project to other basins in the State. The Government wrote to
     the Bank Country Director expressing its interest for a follow-up project. To support the
     Government's plan and as a response to the Government's request, the Bank has initiated
     the preparation of a follow-up project for which PHRD fund has already been approved by
     the Japanese authorities.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 As 1999 QAG review observed, the project design was sound in terms of water
     management and institutional development components. The main components related to
     institutional development and infrastructure investments proposed for the completion of a
     dam, resettlement and the irrigation development subcomponents were ready for


                                                  - 21 -

      implementation.

7.1.2 Project design reflected the Bank's 1993 Policy Statement on water resource development.
      The decision to lend directly to Brazilian states was well aligned with the CAS and the
      Federal Government's strategy. The project was comprehensive but the choice it made to
      focus on priority areas permitted the design to consider addressing the issues of poverty,
      decentralization, improvement of infrastructure and reliability of water supply, beneficiary
      participation,   irrigation  agriculture,    water   supply    and   sanitation, environmental
      rehabilitation, and a host of other activities within a limited geographic area.

7.1.3 The project design was sound in ensuring that both the soft (institutional) and hard
      (infrastructure) components were used to achieve a sustainable management of the water
      resource of the state. This is still the strategy of the Bank, the State of Bahia and the
      Brazilian government. Thus, the Bank's lending performance is rated Satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1 The project team closely monitored project implementation, involved experienced staff in
      water resource management, provided the necessary support and sought solutions to
      problems. Throughout implementation, the team reports indicated that the Bank supervision
      was focused on the development objective of the project and always advised the counterpart
      team to focus on the same.

7.2.2 Overall, supervision missions were adequately staffed and project team members'
      composition was maintained to the extent possible. The ex-TTL for the project continued
      to provide support even after the transfer of the task management responsibility to a new
      TTL (the project had three TTLs during the full implementation years of the project). The
      continuity of the project team with the involvement of experienced senior staff in WRM,
      environmental analysis and social issues ensured that the project was implemented per the
      Loan Agreement.

7.2.3 The project also benefited from the decentralized structure of the Bank. The Sector Leader
      was actively involved in supporting project implementation by conducting short supervision
      missions and a number of meetings in the Bank's Brasilia office with representatives of the
      State to address relevant issues. Field-based team members frequently visited the SRH
      office for short but focused supervision missions as need arose. Mostly, these field staff
      combined their missions with the supervision of the Federal Water Resouce Management
      Project (PROAGUA ­ a Bank financed project that was also implemented by SRH through
      the same PIU).  10   The TTL and other project team members made a frequent visits to the
      PIU and sites while traveling in the country, thus providing close support to the SRH during
      project implementation.

7.2.4 The Bank team was instrumental in improved efficiency and technical advances made during
      the implementation of the project.        Originally, for example, the Ponto Novo dam was
      designed to be built using construction of earth dam.           However, the Bank mission in
      consultation with the dam safety committee convinced the Borrower to opt for the Rolling


                                                  - 22 -

     Concrete (RCC) technology. The State heeded the advise and revised the design and
     adapted the RCC, saving close to Brazilian Real 11 million in the process compared to the
     cost estimate for the earth dam. In addition to cost saved by using technology, the work
     was completed within less time and provided 10% more water volume for the same wet
     perimeter due to the fact that the RCC does not have a lower spillway. Prior to this project,
     there was only one dam that used the RCC technology. Now, it has become the preferred
     familiar technology in the State of Bahia.

7.2.5 Starting with the Mid-Term Review of the project, the Bank supervision mission ensured
     that the balance of focus between the two main components was maintained and that
     appropriate focus on the DO was maintained by SRH and government authorities. It was
     also QAG's foundation that the focus on development impact was satisfactory. To help
     monitor the progress towards the achievement of the DO and the implementation of each
     component, the team insisted on the establishment of a function Monitoring and Evaluation
     system and revised indicators to determine advances in project implementation, as cited
     above and demonstrated in Annex 1.

7.2.6 The Bank team played a proactive role in timely identification of problems and provided
     appropriate and effective advice to advance project implementation momentum. The team
     ensured that the SRH was properly staffed to adequately implement the project;
     incorporated experiences and best practices from other projects; changed the financing
     parameters when the State budget reduction seemed to affect disbursement; advised and
     insisted on the cancellation of a contract with a Consortium when it failed to implement the
     required task satisfactorily and extended closing date and revised disbursement of the
     project. In general, the Bank team provided appropriate follow-up to the implementation of
     agreed actions but in some cases the issues were dragged for some time probably due to
     overestimation of the leverage the project could use in enforcing the implementation of
     agreements and legal agreements.

7.2.7 The ratings of the team on project implementation progress and associated fiduciary issues
     were credible. When implementation was not progressing satisfactorily, the team rated the
     IP Unsatisfactory and when SRH failed to implement agreed environmental safeguards, the
     team threatened to withhold project funds in case default was issued.     The environmental
     safeguard was rated "Unsatisfactory" in the respective PSR. Making this same observation,
     QAG concluded that the supervision aspects of environment as being professional and
     thorough and rated it Highly Satisfactory. The same observation is also applicable to the
     supervision of the resettlement aspects of the project. While on balance reporting was
     credible, sometimes it was repetitive across the different Aide Memoires and PSRs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1 Overall Bank performance is therefore rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 The Government was conscious of the fact that limited access to safe and reliable water
      posed a strong limitation to the socio-economic development of the State. To address the



                                               - 23 -

       problem, the State Government formed SRH in 1995 as a Directorate in the Secretariat of
       Water Resource, Sanitation and Housing. The SRH was given responsibility for water
       resource planning and management, including technical studies, inventory and registry of
       water users, issuance of water permits, hydrologic and metrological monitoring and
       maintaining a hydrologic database. Further, the State committed itself to decentralization
       to a watershed level by dividing the State into 10 Water Administration Regions (Regiões
       Administrativas da Água ­ RAA) that will also serve as a forum for water users and their
       associations to dialogue with SRH.       In addition, the State approved the water law,
       formulated a State Water Resource Management Strategy, invested over US$6 million to
       prepare a Water Resources Master Plan, initiated a water rights administration program
       and allocated sufficient resources for the preparation of the project including a request for
       PHRD Grant from the Japanese Government.

7.4.2 The Government expressed its goal and preparedness for the support of the Bank through a
      Bahia Water Sector Policy Letter in August 1997. The State Government was a proactive
      interlocutor to the Bank and provided high-level professionals to coordinate the preparation
      of the project. As QAG observed the State Government put in place the appropriate laws
      and regulations for a comprehensive and integrated water resource development.

7.4.3 The Borrower performance in the preparation of this project is rated Highly Satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 The Government remained true to its commitment and closely supported the implementation
       of the project. Although during the implementation of this project the Brazilian economy
       suffered from financial crunch, the Government made the full counterpart contribution.
       The State Government was always ready and available to discuss issues in the
       implementation of the project and played active role in proposing solutions to problems and
       in most cases implemented agreed action albeit with a delay.

7.5.2 However, in implementing follow-up reforms (such as the implementation of bulk water
      charges) to further deepen the changes in management and financing of the water sector, the
      Government took more time than was expected by the Bank team. The Government should
      have asserted stronger and timely direction to all executing agencies to improve their
      coordination during project implementation. The State delayed substantially the acceptable
      staffing of the SRH to undertake its increasing role in the management of the water sector.
      However, this was effectively resolved after a change in State administration.

7.5.3 On balance the Government's implementation performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 Under the overall direction of the SRH Superintendancy, project implementation was
       coordinated by a Project Management Unit (Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projecto ­
       UGP) in collaboration with the Bank supervision team(s). Initially, the SRH did not fully
       confirm with environmental safeguards and showed some delays in resettling farmers. One
       of the activities to be coordinated and implemented by SRH was maintaining a baseline
       using the socio-economic study of the beneficiaries conducted during the preparation of the



                                               - 24 -

       project. The SRH was expected to update these data through periodic surveys. This task
       was not always smoothly implemented, although it was completed as part of the final
       evaluation of the project conducted by SRH. In disbursing resources to the executing
       agencies, SRH was not agile enough to quickly affect the transfer of funds as PSR
       sequence # 6 observed.

7.6.2 Notwithstanding the above limitations but considering the long list of tasks the SRH was
      responsible for, the number or executing agencies it has to coordinate, the number of
      contracts it has to administer and initially the small number of staff that the unit had to
      support project implementation, the performance SRH in coordinating project
      implementation is rated Satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1 The overall performance of the Borrower is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Reforms such as the implementation of water rights administration systems and water charges
    systems take considerable time and effort to build consensus and political support. Political
    support at the highest level is a critical element in implementing reforms in the water sector
    and consensus building is another critical element in a sector where almost all people have a
    say. Therefore, projects that aim to bring reforms in the water sector need to account for
    such ardous process of consensus-building and recognize and build political support for
    reforms. In this case, reforms moved relatively well when there was a political support at the
    highest level and suffered delays as political priorities shifted.

8.2 Prioritizing, sequencing and focusing on selected watersheds are essential for ensuing a higher
    project impact. The fact that three basins were selected and that the project concentrated
    most of its interventions in the Itapicuru basin proved to be the right choice. Rather than
    spreading efforts thin, the State chose to focus on the selected river basins that resulted in the
    observed impacts of the project in the priority area.

8.3 It is fundamental in the construction of dams that the selection of appropriate sites within a
    river basin should have as its objective the maximizing of benefits while minimizing risks. The
    success of Ponto Novo is partially explained by the comprehensive multi-criteria study
    conducted early in project preparation. Planning and site selection for dams should be based
    on mutliple evaluation criteria and diverse water uses so as to maximize benefits. The
    approach should include its multiple uses and should be exploited to maximize the sum of all
    additional benefits ­ such as integrating and attending the different water demands by multiple
    users for various purposes. The project was able to attend the water demand of several small
    towns and rural communities and irrigation farmers, including leisure demand.

8.4 An integrated approach to rural development in water scarce semi-arid region should center
    on improving the availability of reliable water resource for the different users. The main
    impediment in improving living standards in the semi-arid region of Bahia was and still is the
    reliable access to water, whether it is to diversify farm products, to improve health conditions



                                                 - 25 -

    or reduce the burden of water collection. The fact that the State of Bahia centered its
    intervention in the selected priority areas anchored on water resource but with multi-faceted
    support made it possible to observe improvement in the living standards of the population and
    the dynamism created in these localities.

8.5 The demand for water is beyond social and economic needs, in that it includes the recreational
    and ecological aspects and, therefore, a project with an aim of integrated water resource
    management has to cater to satisfy these multiple demands. While the primary aim of the
    construction of dams was to alleviate the seasonality of water availability in the selected basins
    and to provide safe water for human consumption, the project quickly realized that once the
    dam was built there was a pent-up demand for the recreational value of water. In addition,
    the overall demand for water needs to take into account for ecological demand to satisfy the
    environmental needs.

8.6 Resettlement can be an effective instrument for poverty alleviation if it is participatory and the
    support is comprehensive.        The resettlement of farmers to irrigated land involved a
    comprehensive package that included training, on-farm development, electrification, improved
    housing construction, provision of sanitation service, social services such as kindergarten,
    access roads, in addition to the provision of reliable source of water both for irrigation and
    human consumption. Due to this integrated approach, these resettled farmers may not be
    classified as poor farmers at this juncture -- certainly not extreme poor as they were before the
    project.   An additional lesson related to resettlement is that the existence of pilot to
    demonstrate to the potential settlers is an important ingredient to garner the confidence of
    settlers and for them to make an informed decision. In countries where several government
    promises fail to materialize, using a demonstration pilot is imperative.

8.7 Contracting or outsourcing some activities (such as operation of networks, monitoring of
    water, rehabilitation and maintenance of dams) is cost-effective and efficient since it reduces
    the public sectors burden and allows the Government to focus on its normative roles.

8.8 Successful piloting would create its own incentive to replicate the experience in other places.
    The success of dam construction modeled through this project provided the incentive for the
    Government to apply the same strategy in other basins without the Bank's financial assistance.
    In addition, due to the success of the pilot and the related models developed, the Government
    is planning to extend the experience of this project to cover all basins in the State through
    support from the Bank.




                                                 - 26 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers to this project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                              - 27 -

10. Additional Information

Footnotes

1. Loan Agreement dated December 4, 1997.
2. The World Bank. 1997. Bahia Water Resources Management Project. Project Appraisal Document.
Report # 17003-BR
3. LN 4623-BR- Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Bahia
4. As evidenced in other irrigation projects in Brazil such as the Jaiba and the Formoso projects financed
by the Bank and the perimeters around the Petrolina-Juazeiro area.
5. Water Supply and Sanitation (WSS) to urban areas is provided primarily by EMBASA, the State's
WSS company, that has implemented water charges since the late 60's.
6. The relatively high cost of the Phase I irrigation district at Ponto Novo, built to accommodate families
resettled from the reservoir basin, was a matter of some concern for the State. The project included land
preparation, fencing, road improvements, housing, a potable water system, and the irrigation works as well
as rebuilding a community church, a primary school and farmer association activities. In addition, farmers
were given intensive training in irrigated agriculture. The result was that farmers' incomes rose by several
multiples, new jobs were generated and more taxes were collected. The heavy investment in human capital
and infrastructure should be the object of a careful economic analysis to determine whether such
investments generate net positive returns in income, job creation and tax revenues.
7. The World Bank. 2003. A More Equitable, Sustainable, and Competitive Brazil ­ Country Assistance
Strategy 2004-2007.
8. These WAR were not necessarily structured following a single watershed although some of them
correspond to a single watershed.
9. The use of the Minimum Impact Approach was justified by the PAD by stating that the approach was
applied to evaluate economic feasibility of project's water resource management component (Cumming et.
al., 1996 and Mexico Water Resource Project, 1996). See PAD p. 27.
10. Brazil: Federal Water Resources Management Project (PROAGUA). Loan # 4310-BR.




                                                      - 28 -

  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


  Outcome / Impact Indicators:



       IMPACT             Unit of   Baseline Planned   Actual     Actual/    OBSERVATIONS
    INDICATORS          Measureme             (EOP)             Planned (%)
                             nt
 Direct beneficiaries   inhabitants  46,370            95,431
 Indirect beneficiaries inhabitants           1,70654 1,656,317
                                                 2
 Families resettled by
 the project:

 agricultural area        families   NA*                151
                                               100
 urban area               families   NA*                 63
 Population who         inhabitants  20,850   40,930   51,026      125
 benefited from the
 water supply system
 in Ponto Novo
 (surface spring)
 Population who         inhabitants  22,514   40,578   33,423       82      The main aqueduct
 benefited from the                                                         was constructed with
 water supply system                                                        capacity to serve the
 in Tucano                                                                  needs of the planned
 (underground spring)                                                       2nd phase of the
                                                                            project (PGRH II).
Increase in the             m3/s       --       4.5     6.59        146    The Bandeira de Melo
availability of surface                                                    Dam, with a regulation
water (Ponto Novo and                                                      capacity of which will
Pindobaçu)                                                                 regulate the river with a
                                                                           volume of flow of, is
                                                                           under construction. Work
                                                                           was begun with loan
                                                                           proceeds and will be
                                                                           finalized with State
                                                                           resources
 Increase in the             l/s     58.75     71.82    96.00      134      The system was
 availability of                                                            expanded in the Master
 distributed treated                                                        Plan (Projeto
 water - Ponto Novo                                                         Executivo)
 Increase in the             l/s       --      60.00   100.00      167      The State Government
 supply of water from                                                       executed with own
 groundwater ­                                                              resources a spare
 Tucano                                                                     water well in order to
                                                                            guarantee the supply



                                            - 29 -

                                                                         system, expanding
                                                                         water supply.
 Localities supplied      unit        4.0     16.00    50.00        313
 with treated water in
 5 municipalities ­
 Ponto Novo System
 Localities supplied                   7        29      29          100
 with treated water in   cities
 4 municipalities ­
 Tucano System
 Estimate agricultural  Brazilian     --       NA*  1,367,180.
 production value in      Real                          0
 the district of Ponto
 Novo in 2005
 Water availability        l/s         --      NA      2,586
 for permanent
 irrigation
 Number of jobs           unit         --      1600    2,600        163  Employment generated
 created directly                                                        through the Irrigation
                                                                         project
 Number of jobs           unit         --      3200    3,900        122  Employment generated
 created indirectly                                                      through the Irrigation
                                                                         project
 Increase in price of   Brazilian   356.00     NA    1,000.00            Source: Empresa
 land in the             Real /ha                                        Baiana de
 municipality of                                                         Desenvolvimento
 Ponto Novo                                                              Agrícola and Banco do
                                                                         Brasil
Irrigation system          ha     --           1600    2645         159  The project of 1500 ha to
implemented ­ Ponto                                                      be implemented in
Novo                                                                     Pindobaçu was not
                                                                         executed due to water
                                                                         contamination concerns
                                                                         upstream Ponto Novo.
 Number of families       unit         --      NA       141
 who benefited from
 the creation of
 sanitation facilities
 Regularized land                                                        Land title is
 titles                                                                  provisional. State
                          Unit        --       NA      141               prohibits land donation
 Number of lots
                           ha         --       NA      705
 Area

  Output Indicators:
      OUTPUT            Unit of   Baseline Planned  Actual    Actual/     OBSERVATIONS
                                           (EOP)



                                           - 30 -

  INDICATORS         Measurement                                        Planned
                                                                         (%)
Infrastructure Component
Supply system
 Ponto Novo Dam           l/seg         58.75       71.82     96.00       134
 Tucano                   l/seg           0         60.00    100.00       167
 groundwater
 based water
 supply system
 Originating from         Km           114.37      162.04    303.06       187
 Ponto Novo
 System
 Originating from         Km              --       193.00    193.00       100
 Tucano System
 Expansion of the         Km              --        NA*       34.00
 electric
 distribution
 network
 Energy provided          Kw              --        NA*       13.80
Irrigated Agriculture
 for small farmers         ha            NA*        NA*      730.00
 in Ponto Novo
 for large-scale           ha            NA*        NA*      1789.56
 farmers in Ponto
 Novo
 for small farmers         ha            NA*        NA*      126.00
 in Pindobaçu
  Expansion of the        Km              --        NA*       19.00
  distribution canal
 Environmental achievements
 Construction of          unit            --        NA*       8.00
 seedling nurseries
  Planting of             unit            --        NA*      120,000
  seedling
 Properties and            ha             --        NA*        509
 rural producers
 prepared to plant
 of seedling
Monitoring in the 3 river basins --Itapicuru, Paraguaçu and Verde/Jacaré


 monitored                unit            --         65        44          67.69 Number of locations was defined
 locations                                                                       during a field trip, after project
                                                                                 start
 analyses carried         unit            --        NA*       4271
 out
 Monitoring in 5                                                                 Monitoring of reservoirs was not



                                                   - 31 -

reservoirs                                                                      anticipated
locations                 unit          --       NA*         41
monitored
analyses carried          unit          --       NA*        274
out


Construction of buildings in Ponto Novo, Pindobaçu and Vila de Almescega and Vila Banderia de Melo
Houses                    unit          --       NA*        217
 schools/day care         unit          --       NA*         2
 centers
Churches                  unit          --       NA*         1
community center          unit          --       NA*         1
water treatment           unit          --       NA*         2
plant ­ WTP
sewage treatment          unit          --       NA*         2
plant ­ STP
Recreational areas        unit          --       NA*         3
Families resettled        unit          --       NA*        214
in Ponto Novo,
Pindobaçu and
Bandeira de Melo
Regularization of         Km            --        60         60       100
river flow
Number of dams            unit          --         1         2            200 The Bandeira de Melo dam is
constructed                                                                     under construction. Work was
(Ponto Novo and                                                                 begun with loan proceeds and will
Pindobaçu)                                                                      be finalized with the States
                                                                                resources.
Number of dams            unit          --       NA*         5
maintained and
with small
rehabilitation
works executed
 Number of dams                         --         1         5             500Initial forecast was
 under operation                                                               for the Ponto Novo
                                                                               dam.
 Preparation of           unit          --         1         1             100
 infrastructure
 O&M Manual
Water Resources Management Component
New agencies organized
Associations of           unit          --       NA*         3
resettled irrigators
 Water users              unit          --         1         4                 End of project data
 Associations                                                                  taken from Loan
                                                                               Agreement page 8



                                                - 32 -

 Water users              unit          --       NA*         63
 commissions
 Water users              unit          --       NA*          1
 consortium
 Water basin              unit          --       NA*          4                 Itapicuru, Paraguaçu,
 committees                                                                     Salitre and Bacias do
                                                                                Leste.
 Ponto Novo               unit          --       NA*          1
 Irrigation District
Training:

multipliers with          unit          --       NA*        1281
formal education
multipliers with          unit          --       NA*        1158
non-formal
education
Public managers           unit          --       NA*         210
Elaboration of            unit          --        0           1
SRH's Strategic
Plan
Creation of Water         unit          --        10         10             100 In some basins, the services of
Administrative                                                                   SRH were transferred to the
Regions and                                                                      nearest Natural Resources House.
implementation of
Natural Resources
Houses
Monitoring instruments installations: SRH's hydro-meteorological network complements other agencies, representing
36% of the existing networks
rainfall                  unit          --        70         120        171.5
measurement                                                                      Covering 64% of the state with
stations(automatic                                                               92% automated
and conventional)
river flow                unit          --        37         77         208.1    Covering 66% of the state with
measurement                                                                      60% automated
stations
(automatic and
conventional)
 evaporation              unit          --        25         12           48     Covering 47% of the state and
measurement                                                                      100% automated
stations
(automatic and
conventional)
Provide SRH with          unit          --       NA*         13
simulation models
for measuring
quality and
quantity of water



                                                - 33 -

Tariff, water charges & users right
Elaboration of           unit            --          1          1              100 Amount defined and in R$/m²
water charges
Coverage of                %             --        100%        30%              30 Large-scale farmer's lots are not
O&M costs for                                                                         yet operational and they will
the Ponto Novo                                                                        provide sustainability of the
irrigation district                                                                   project. Pindobaçu irrigation
through tariff                                                                        system is in the implementation
payments from                                                                         stage.
farmers
Development of           Unit            --          1          3              300
studies for water
use tariff charges
for the State
Increase in the          Unit          547          6500      7258          111.66 End of project estimate from
number of water                                                                       implementation manual: 1300
use rights                                                                            water use rights granted
granted                                                                               (outorgas) per year (vol. B page
(outorgas)                                                                            41)


Strengthening of the water resources sector legal framework through the preparation of:
Laws                     unit            2          NA*         5
Decrees                  unit            1          NA*         2
Preparation of the                      --           5          2               40     SRH participated providing
municipal                                                                             technical assistance to the city
legislation for                                                                       halls.
water use (number
of laws)
Elaboration of a         unit            --          3          2            66.67
social and
economic
database
Development of           unit            --          1          2              200
decision support
system models
Water resources          unit            --          1          1              100
State plan
Projects to              Unit            --          1          3              300
subsidize the
inclusion of
underground
waters in the
water resources
management
policy in the State
 NA* - Not Applicable ­ No baseline survey was carried at the beginning of the project.


                                                   - 34 -

1End of project




                   - 35 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

   Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal          Actual/Late Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate          st Estimate Appraisal
                      Component                                US$ million         US$ million
 Institutional Development                                                 30.0              19.3                     64.3
Infrastructural Development                                                55.0              66.0                    120.0


Total Project Costs                                          85.0                85.3                                100.4


   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Procurement Method                        Total Cost,
    Expenditure Category                                                                            Including
                                                                                                 Contingencies

                                       ICB            NCB            Other        N.B.F.1
  1. Works                            21.52           13.81           2.152                            37.48
                                     (12.86)         (7.61)          (1.19)                           (21.66)
  2. Goods                            12.15           0.65            13.82                            14.18
                                     (9.14)          (0.49)          (1.04)                           (10.67)
  3. Consultant Services                                             17.783                            17.78
                                                                    (16.00)        (0.00)             (16.00)
  4. Training                                                         2.55         0.00                2.55
                                                                     (2.29)        (0.00)              (2.29)
  5. Miscellaneous                                                                 2.494                2.49
                                                                                   (0.00)              (0.00)
  6. Recurrent Costs

      Personnel Services                                                           5.90                 5.90
                                                                                   (0.00)              (0.00)
      Operating Costs                                                 4.62                             4.62
                                                                    (0.38)5                            (0.38)
      Total                           33.67           14.46          28.48         8.39                85.00
                                     (22.00)         (8.10)         (20.90)        (0.00)             (51.00)



1.  NBF = Not-Bank financed
2.  National shopping for works and goods
3.  Includes consultant services (individuals and firms) and technical assistance to public entities involved in implementation
    and to beneficiaries. Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for the Selection and
    Employment of Consultants (January 1997).
4.  Includes resettlement indemnization fund and land purchases
5.  Recurrent costs (travel, office maintenance and supplies) for Project Management Unit.




                                                            - 36 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Procurement        Method   1
       Expenditure Category                  ICB                NCB                                  N.B.F.      Total
                                                                                  Other  2                       Cost
1. Works                                    37.39              16.73                0.00               0.00      54.11
                                           (15.06)             (8.49)             (0.00)             (0.00)      (23.55)
2. Goods                                    7.66                0.00                0.00               0.00      7.66
                                            (5.89)             (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)      (5.89)
3. Consultant Services                      0.00                0.00              13.45                0.00      13.45
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)             (20.70)            (0.00)      (20.70)
4. Miscellaneous                            0.00                0.00                0.00               0.00      0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.58)             (0.00)             (0.00)      (0..58)
5. Miscellaneous                            0.00                0.00                0.00               0.00         0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.27)             (0.00)      (0.27)
6. Miscellaneous                            0.00                0.00                0.00               0.00         0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                                    45.05              16.73              13.45                0.00      75.23
                                           (20.95)             (9.07)             (20.75)            (0.00)      (51.00)



   1/  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
   2/  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
       contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
       operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
       units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                         Appraisal Estimate(*)        Actual/Latest Estimate              Percentage of
    Component                                                                               Appraisal
                        Bank        Government        Bank        Government         Bank      Government
 Institutional         18,000             12,000     15,920                3,354      88%                28%
 Infrastructure        33,000             22,000     35,160               30,842     107%               140%

 TOTAL                 51,000             34,000     51,080               34,196     100%           100.60%




                                                       - 37 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic and cost benefit analysis, done as part of this ICR, utilized the same methodology
applied during appraisal so that a clear comparison between the PAD estimate and actual results
could be made. Thus, the Water Resource Management Component was evaluated using the
Minimum Impact Approach.1The Infrastructure Component, on the other hand, was evaluated
using the traditional cost-benefit analysis. (See Annex 5 of the PAD on the details of appraisal
estimates).

Water Resource Management Component

The ex-post evaluation of the water resource management component found out that the annual
flow of benefit reached US$19.4 million, close to the ex-ante estimation of US$20.6 million.
Annual cost of the management of water resources, on average was US$2.48 million, close to the
ex-ante evaluation of US$2.5 million. Thus the ex-post benefit-cost ratio stood at 7.88, which is
slightly lower than the appraisal estimate of 8.24 percent.

According to the analysis done during Appraisal following the Minimum Impact Approach, the
annualized cost of water resource management was set at 0.3% of the social value (it was
assumed social and economic values to be equivalent). The evaluation done as part of this ICR
found that the total economic impact of the project is valued at US$838 million. This indicates
that, given the total economic value accrued as a result of the project, an annual cost of US$2.514
million (i.e. 0.3% of $838 million) in water resource management was justified. The actual annual
cost at US$2.48 million was slightly lower than the justified amount indicating an efficiency gain.

Following the evaluation done during appraisal, Table 3.1 shows the comparison of the ex-ante
estimation (see PAD p. 27) and actual estimate. The table reveals that using economic criteria
established during appraisal for evaluating the investment made, the expenditure made in the
Water Resource Management component was justified.

Table 3.1 Summary of comparative analysis of appraisal and actual estimate
                                 Appraisal estimate            Actual Estimate
Economic values                  $898.0 million                $838.0 million
Annual Impact                    $20.6 million                 $19.4 million
Annualized cost                  $2.5 million                  $2.48 million
Minimum impact                   0.3%                          0.3%
Benefit-cost ratio               8.24                          7.88

Infrastructure Component

In evaluating infrastructure component the project utilized the traditional cost-benefit analysis.
For agricultural products average farm-gate prices over the last three years during harvest season
(2002-2004) were used. Nominal prices were corrected by subtracting value-added taxes--or
other service levies--included in the total value. The opportunity cost used was the same as that
of the ex-ante evaluation, i.e., 12%, and the time horizon considered for all subprojects was 25



                                                - 38 -

years. Farm hired labor wage were fixed at the effective the minimum wage (Brazilian Real 300).
Table 3.2 gives the main assumptions utilized in evaluating the infrastructure component.


      Table 3.2 Economic Analysis Main Assumption, Benefits and Direct Beneficiaries
                                          Main Assumptions
        Discount rate                        12%
        Time horizon                         25 years
        Growth in real price of outputs      Constant
        Real exchange rate                   Constant
        Input prices                         Constant; last quarter of 2004
        Output prices                        Constant average; 2002-2004
                                                Benefits
                                             Increased   horticultural,    crops   and     forage
                                             production
                                             Increased water supply at lower cost
                                          Direct Beneficiaries
        Irrigation                           2.600 farm families in Ponto Novo (Unlike the
                                             PAD estimate of 397 farm families)
        Water Supply                         51.000 population of Ponto Novo e Tucano.


The only difference of Table 3.2 from the appraisal estimate is the price used and the number of
beneficiary families (397 through irrigation and 4015 from water supply for the ex-ante analysis).


The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) done as part of this ICR was estimated at 26.4%,
less than the appraisal estimate of 29.5% but 245% of the discount rate that justifies the
investment made. The financial rate of return resulted in a rate of return of 23.5% slightly lower
than the 27.3% estimated during appraisal. The analysis also estimated the fiscal gain that
represented US$14 million, higher than the $10 million estimated during appraisal. Although, the
fiscal impact analysis showed that the cost was higher than was originally planned, the return also
increased accordingly. The additional cost is also a result of extended investment made in Ponto
Novo in resettlement and on-farm and off-farm support provided to producers.             Table 3.3
summarizes the aggregate flows and internal rate of return for the infrastructure projects.


           Table 3.3 Aggregate Flows and Internal Rate of Return (in million US$)




                                               - 39 -

                                                                                     Fiscal impact
                                       Present Value of Flows                             NPV
                          Economic analysis          Financial analysis                  Taxes
                              ex-ante         ex-post     Ex-ante       ex-post   ex-ante      ex-post
   Benefits                  132.041         140.908      97.398       104.051     24.797      45.788
   Costs                      64.137          79.068      65.861        78.495     14.691      32.278
   Net Benefits               67.094          61.840      31.537        25.556     10.006      13.510
   IERR                       29,5%           26,4%        27,3%        23,5%      25,8%       26,7%




In addition a detail cost-benefit analysis for the Ponto Novo and Tucano subprojects was
conducted. The Ponto Novo subproject included both irrigation and water supply works while
for Tucano dam water supply system was only considered.

The evaluation of the Ponto Novo Irrigation Project, investment benefits were calculated after
aggregating results of four farm models, representing four principal types of irrigated farms in the
region. The net benefits calculation took in to account quantifiable benefits attributable to the
project, using the same approach as that of the ex ante evaluation.

Table 3.4 summarizes the finding of the IERR. For both Ponto Novo and Tucano the ex-post
IERR justifies the investment made in both infrastructures. However, the return for irrigation was
lower than the appraisal estimate but still at a much higher level of 30.3% compared to the
discount rate of 12 percent. For Tucano, on the other hand, the return for water supply at 45.8%
was the biggest return among all investments.

          Table 3.4. Internal Economic Rate of Return of selected subprojects­IRER
Benefit                         ex ante                      ex post
                                Ponto Novo                   TucanoPonto NovoTucano
Irrigation                      32.2%                        20.1%30.3%-
Water Supply                    24.0%                        32.8%22.4%45.8%

Additional Impacts

Efficiency and increase in the volume of water supplied

Due to improved infrastructure development the project financed, loss of useful and useable water
has been improved significantly. The introduction of improved irrigation equipment coupled with
the necessary training meant farmers are now using water more efficiently. In addition, the
reliability of water availability and the projection that it will satisfy the demand for the next 20
years imply, the region might attract additional investment in different sector of the local
economy. Not only the project supported the reliability of water availability but also the provision
of clean water that will have a huge impact, such as in improved health, less time lost due to
health problem, reduced time in fetching water, etc., that was not accounted in the calculation of
the economic cost-benefit analysis.



                                                 - 40 -

Employment and income generation

The Ponto Novo subproject resulted in a real change in the region's agricultural economy. Actual
estimate shows that due to the Ponto Novo project, agricultural production increased to 60,000
tons per year, generating gross revenue of approximately R$30 million, using the average price of
2002-2004. Farmers also diversified their production to high value products such as squash,
pepper, cabbage, tomato, banana, mango, and guava.

With the irrigation system in full operation, the economy of nearby municipalities, especially that
of Ponto Novo and Filadélfia, will create 2,600 direct and 3,900 indirect jobs, distributed among
the various services that support production, agro-industries, and marketing.

With further consolidation of the Ponto Novo irrigation system and the inclusion of small-and
medium-scale producers, additional gains are expected from economy of scale and the
verticalization of production, through the establishment of associations and firms responsible for
input-output marketing, agricultural products processing, and related agro-industry development.

Impact of Resettlement on Families

With an irrigated area of 252 hectares, of which 100% is used for the production of vegetables,
fruits, and legumes, the Ponto Novo Irrigation Project is having a clear, direct impact on the
production, income, and employment.

The project's implementation promoted significant socioeconomic changes in the region,
facilitating the creation of 22,750 daily wages for rural workers in the period from August 2003
to August 2004, which has raised the salary level (now slightly higher than that paid by the
region's commercial sector).

These impacts had a major multiplying effect on the regional economy, through a considerable
increase in the demand for consumer goods and services, which was reflected in the increased
number of commercial establishments, and increased demand for labor and income levels and
consequently decreasing the rural exodus.

The project made a substantial improvement in the standard of living of the resettled population.
Considering these were extreme poor farmers, the result is nothing short of revolutionary. Such
improvements were nearly nonexistent and these beneficiary farmers enjoy a standard of living
that they could never have imagined.

Increased Women's participation

In 2001, the Gender, Women and Development subproject was carried out in the four
municipalities bordering the lake at the Ponto Novo Dam. In the project's first phase, workshops
were held to raise awareness about organizing women in the municipalities of Ponto Novo,
Pindobaçu, Saúde, and Filadélfia. These workshops presented activities dealing with the subjects



                                                - 41 -

of Women's Health, Women's Rights, and the Value of Women, with the objective of bringing
attention to water resource management.

The objective of this subproject was to promote participatory management of water and the
creation of employment and income generating opportunities, in light of the importance of women
in water administration. This subproject resulted in the creation of the Flower Project­Ponto
Novo Resettlement and consolidating the activities of women artisans within their respective
localities.

Enhanced involvement of users' associations

The participation of civil society in water resource management began in February 1998, as part
of mobilizing and organizing water users, resulting in the current model of organizing water users
for the participatory integrated management of water resources.

In 1999, the Ponto Novo Resettled Irrigators' Association was created, formed by persons
resettled on irrigated lots in the Ponto Novo Resettlement­Phase I. This association's aim is to
organize and train users in carrying out irrigated agriculture that is compatible with the multiple
uses of the Ponto Novo reservoir. The function of the organization is to discuss and prepare
proposals dealing with water resource management and to establish partnerships with the State
Management Agency. Poor farmers, who used to have no say in their life are now actively
participating in all phases of decision making in their common irrigation perimeters. Farmers are
showing maturity and are taking more responsibilities.

Footnotes:

1. The use of the Minimum Impact Approach was justified by the PAD by stating that the approach was applied to
evaluate economic feasibility of project's water resource management component (Cumming et. al., 1996 and
Mexico Water Resource Project, 1996). See PAD p. 27. .




                                                       - 42 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/07/1996                3    WATER ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/ENGIN. (1)
                                             SOCIAL ECONOMIST/FAO (1)
              08/30/1996                1    WATER ENGINEER (1)
              11/06/1996                6    WATER ENGINEER (3);
                                             SOCIAL ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST(1)
              01/19/1997                3    WATER ENGINEER (3)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/17/1997                6    WATER ENGINEER (3);
                                             SOCIAL ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST(1)


 Supervision

              10/14/1998                3    WATER RES ENGINEER (2);          S               S
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1)
              03/30/1999                3    ENGINEER (2);                    S               S
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1)
              10/29/1999                1    ENGINEER (1)                     S               S
              12/10/2000                3    WATER RES. ENGINEER (1);         S               S
                                             ENV&SOCIAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              03/19/2001                4    WATER RESOURCES                  U               S
                                             CONSUL (2); TASK
                                             MANAGER (1); PROGRAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              03/19/2001                5    SENIOR ANTHROPOLOGIST            U               S
                                             (1); WTR RES CONSULTANT
                                             (2); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              03/15/2002                5    TASK MANAGER (1); SENIOR         S               S
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1); SR
                                             WTR RES MAGNT CONS (2);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              10/18/2002                3    WATER RES CONSULTANT             S               S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); TASK MANAGER (1)
              03/14/2003                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             WATER RES CONSULTANT
                                             (2); OPERATIONS ANALYST



                                              - 43 -

                                                       (1)
               10/10/2003                         4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S    S
                                                       WATER RES CONSULTANT
                                                       (2); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                                       (1)
               04/06/2004                         6    WATER RESOURCES (1);                HS    S
                                                       IRRIGATION (1);
                                                       SOCIAL/ENVIRON. (1); TASK
                                                       TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                       OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                       PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
               10/22/2004                         5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               HS    S
                                                       OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                       WATER RES CONSULTANT
                                                       (3)


 ICR
                                                  3     SR. RESETTLEMENT                    S    S
                                                        SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS
                                                        OFFICER (1); WATER
                                                        RES CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             Not available*                    Not available*
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           5.40*                       211,754.60
  Supervision                                    161.61                       509,445.85
  ICR                                              12**                        45,000.00
  Total                                          179.01                       766,200.45
    *    Data prior to 1998 not available due to the discontinuance of Fact System.
    ** Estimate based on Work Program Agreement Deliverable Plan for FY 2006.




                                                        - 44 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bahia: Water Sector Policy Letter, August 1997.

Governo do Estado da Bahia, Superintendência de Recursos Hídricos ­ SRH. 2005. Relatório
Final De Avaliação Da Implementação E Do Impacto Do Projeto De Gerenciamento De
Recursos Hídricos Do Estado Da Bahia. Minuta Preliminar.

Mission Aide Momoires and PSRs

Project Monitoring Reports and several UGP documents

The World Bank. 2003. A More Equitable, Sustainable, and Competitive Brazil.

Country Assistance Strategy 2004-2007.

The World Bank. 1993. Water Resouce Management ­ A World Bank Policy Paper.

The World Bank. 1997. Project Appraisal Document ­ for a Water Resouce Management
Project. Report No. 17003-BR. August 20, 1997.




                                            - 47 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR

INTRODUÇÃO

O Projeto de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hídricos da Bahia ­ PGRH foi concebido pelo
Governo do Estado da Bahia como um dos instrumentos para promover o acesso seguro e
sustentável à água para uso potável municipal e industrial e para irrigação em bacias
hidrográficas prioritárias no Estado; promover o gerenciamento participativo e o uso racional
de recursos hídricos; e desenvolver sistemas de administração, operação e manutenção
sustentáveis para a infra-estrutura de oferta de água rural e de irrigação.

O Projeto foi financiado pelo Banco Mundial, por intermédio do Acordo de Empréstimo
4232-BR, assinado em 4 de dezembro de 1997, concedida efetividade em 03 de março de
1998 e com data de encerramento inicialmente prevista para 31 de dezembro de 2002.

O Acordo de Empréstimo 4232-BR foi aditado três vezes, uma para acatar modificação em
relação ao percentual de financiamento da Categoria de Gasto Bens e duas para definir
novas datas de encerramento, resultando seu encerramento em 30 de setembro de 2005.

O Projeto de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hídricos do Estado da Bahia envolveu recursos da
ordem de US$ 85 milhões de dólares norte-americanos, sendo US$ 51 milhões financiados
pelo Banco Mundial e US$ 34 milhões de contrapartida do Estado da Bahia, na qualidade de
mutuário do empréstimo.

1.     ­ OBJETIVOS DO PGRH

Os objetivos do Projeto, definidos na sua preparação e constantes do Project Appraisal
Document Relatório No.17003-BR (PAD), de 20 de agosto de 1997, foram os seguintes:

A.     Prover acesso seguro e sustentável à água para uso potável, municipal, industrial e
irrigação em bacias hidrográficas prioritárias do Estado da Bahia, Brasil, principalmente em
áreas com alta concentração de domicílios rurais pobres.
B.     Promover o gerenciamento participativo e o uso racional de recursos hídricos no
Estado da Bahia.
C.     Desenvolver sistemas de administração, operação e manutenção (A, O&M)
sustentáveis para infra-estrutura de oferta de água rural e de irrigação.
D.     Desenvolver um modelo a ser usado nas demais Bacias Hidrográficas na Bahia.

2.     COMPONENTES DO PROJETO

2.1.   Componentes Originais (de acordo com o texto do PAD No. 17003-BR, o qual não
coincide, necessariamente, com o texto do Acordo de Empréstimo 4232-BR, que se encontra
com menores detalhes)

Parte A: Gerenciamento de recursos hídricos
1.     Prover recursos técnicos e financeiros para fortalecer instituições Estaduais e
Organizações de Usuários de Bacia e Locais para gerenciar efetivamente os recursos hídricos
no Estado da Bahia, de maneira financeiramente e ambientalmente sustentável.
2.     Desenvolver um programa forte de informação ao público e de participação de


                                              - 48 -

usuários para assegurar o envolvimento dos decisores no gerenciamento de recursos
hídricos.
3.       Estabelecer uma estrutura institucional e legal, com foco inicial dado às três bacias
prioritárias, com as capacidades técnica, financeira e legal para: (i) aumentar e estabilizar a
oferta hídrica na Bacia; (ii) coordenar a A, O&M da infra-estrutura; (iii) promover fortemente as
questões ambientais e os padrões de qualidade de água; e (iv) induzir o uso eficiente da
água, por meio da alocação e emissão de outorga de direitos de uso da água, mediação de
conflitos, tarifas e programas de educação para os usuários.
4.       Desenvolver e melhorar as associações de usuários de água (AUAs) para administrar,
operar e manter a infra-estrutura hídrica nas três bacias prioritárias, por meio de assistência
técnica e programas de treinamento.
Parte B: Investimentos em infra-estrutura
1.       Na Bacia do rio Itapicuru, a bacia prioritária com a necessidade mais crítica por
infra-estrutura hídrica, o projeto construiria e reabilitaria as infra-estruturas de reservação,
transporte e distribuição. A seleção dos investimentos estaria baseada em critérios
econômicos, técnicos e ambientais bem definidos, como também em avaliações de impacto
social e ambiental. Todos os investimentos de infra-estrutura seriam consistentes com o Plano
de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hídricos (GRH) da Bacia.

3. OBJETIVOS E PRODUTOS ALCANÇADOS



3.1 Metas Alcançadas


Para o monitoramento e a avaliação do PGRH foi proposto um conjunto de indicadores
econômicos, sociais e ambientais, especialmente referentes aos recursos hídricos e o seu
gerenciamento, aplicado a cada um dos seus componentes, como indicado no Anexo 6 do
PAD. Os indicadores do componente de gerenciamento de recursos hídricos são qualitativos,
enquanto a maior parte do componente infra-estrutura se baseia em uma avaliação
quantitativa.



COMPONENTE DE GERENCIAMENTO DE RECURSOS HÍDRICOS

Plano de Ação     Atividades            Indicadores chave Previstos no       Resultados atingidos
                                        PAD 17.003 ­ BR
Sistema de        Estabelecimento e     Aprovação da regulamentação da - Regulamentada a Lei 6.855/95
gerenciamento     operação de:          Lei da água;                         -Nova Lei preparada e enviada
de recursos       Arcabouço político;   Funcionamento regular do arranjo para a apreciação da
hídricos          Comitês de Bacias:    institucional                        Assembléia Legislativa;
                  Associações de        Convocação regular das               - Arranjo institucional definido e
                  Usuários de Água      entidades de recursos hídricos       funcionando até o encerramento
                                                                             do Projeto;
                                                                             -Organização, Implantação,
                                                                             Funcionamento e Apoio Jurídico
                                                                             de: Colegiados Centrais;
                                                                             Comitês de Bacias
                                                                             Hidrográficas; Associação de
                                                                             Usuários de Recursos Hídricos.
Estrutura         Desenvolvimento       Sistema de processamento de          - Ampliação de quadro funcional;
institucional     Institucional da SRH; dados: equipamento, treinamento      - Implantado na SRH Sistemas:



                                                 - 49 -

oficial de    Descentralização por     e sistemas administrativos ­       documental, de divulgação
recursos      Regiões                  técnico e gerencial.               institucional, administrativo e de
hídricos      Administrativas da       Escritórios das Regiões            gerenciamento de informações
              Água;                    Administrativas da Água            de Recursos Hídricos;
              Desenvolvimento          estabelecidas e trabalhando;       - Descentralização da SRH por
              institucional de         Aquisição de infra-estrutura,      meio da criação e implantação
              entidades                equipamentos e veículos de apoio de 10 Casas de Recursos
              intervenientes;          logístico;                         Naturais;
              Articulação das          Acordos e contratos com as         -Desenvolvimento Institucional
              entidades Federais e     entidades estaduais e federais.    das Entidades Intervenientes,
              Estaduais;               Instalação de laboratórios e       mediante capacitação, apoio
              Modernização de          análises efetuadas.                logístico, estabelecimento de
              instalações e                                               critérios e padrões para o
              laboratórios                                                desenvolvimento de estudos,
                                                                          projetos e supervisão de obras;
                                                                          - Aquisição de programas
                                                                          computacionais, equipamentos
                                                                          de medição e controle de campo
                                                                          e veículos;
                                                                          - Realizados acordos com
                                                                          entidades estaduais e federais
                                                                          para desenvolvimento de
                                                                          trabalhos específicos.
Legislação,   Regulação do sistema Melhoria dos instrumentos              - Aprimoramento legislação de
regras e      de gerenciamento;        jurídicos;                         Recursos Hídricos;
procedimentos Estudo de sanção da      Ausência de conflitos entre        - Regulamentação e
              legislação e cobrança    usuários;                          aprimoramento no processo de
              de salários              Aumento da eficácia das normas     emissão de outorga.
              Suporte legal para       judiciais.
              preparação e
              aplicação de planos e
              programas;
              Associações de
              recursos hídricos;
              Legislação em águas
              subterrâneas.
Treinamento   Custos, treinamento e    Cursos realizados e avaliados      - Implementados 2 Programas
              aprendizagem técnica; pelos alunos;                         de educação ambiental e
              Troca e cooperação       Campanhas realizadas e público     comunicação social ­ atingindo
              técnica;                 atingido;                          crianças e jovens - com cursos e
              Campanhas de             Programas de educação              campanhas para 4.720 pessoas;
              publicação e             ambiental ­ atingindo crianças e   -Assistência Técnica para
              conscientização do       jovens e avaliação dos resultados; irrigantes e reassentados;
              uso racional da água;    Cursos de treinamento de           Realização de cursos de
              Comunicação social e     usuários e avaliação da economia capacitação para O&M de
              educação ambiental;      de água obtida;                    barragens.
              Guia e treinamento de Reabilitação das obras e
              usuários de recursos     manutenção regular com
              hídricos;                responsabilidade.
              Treinamento para
              operação e
              manutenção de
              infra-estrutura hídrica.
Eventos de    Apoio a planos,          Número de eventos realizados e     - 330 eventos de capacitação
publicação e  programas e sistemas     avaliação dos resultados;          realizados para agentes



                                               - 50 -

difusão da    de gerenciamento;      Publicações lançadas, número de     multiplicadores;
informação    Seminários,            impressos e número de leitores.     - Cerca de 200.000 publicações
              workshops e cursos                                         lançadas (cartilhas, folders)
              rápidos                                                    - Produzidos 36.500 unidades de
                                                                         material de divulgação.
Apoio técnico Informação hidrológica Modernização, operação e            -  Modernização,     operação   e
para o        e hidro-meteorológica  manutenção de sistema               manutenção          da       rede
gerenciamento                        hidrométrico.                       hidrométrica, com 209 estações
de recursos                          Análise, processamento e            implantadas;            - Análise,
hídricos                             sistematização da informação        Processamento e                 -
                                     hidrológica;                        Sistematização de Informações
                                     Desenvolvimento de sistema de       Hidrológicas com implantação
                                     informação hidro-meteorológica;     de banco de dados e SIG;
                                     Monitoramento hidrológico:          - Monitoramento Hidrológico e
                                     quantidade e qualidade.             da Qualidade das Águas;
                                                                         -        Implementado           o
                                                                         monitoramento      dos   recursos
                                                                         hídricos superficiais nas bacias
                                                                         dos rios Itapicuru, Verde/Jacaré
                                                                         e         Alto         Paraguaçu;
                                                                         -   Realizado    diagnóstico   da
                                                                         qualidade da água e sedimentos
                                                                         dos reservatórios de Apertado,
                                                                         Ponto    Novo,   São    José   do
                                                                         Jacuípe, França e Pedras Altas.
              Registro de usuários   Registro de usuários:              - Realizados os cadastros
                                     abastecimento, irrigação e outros. de        Usuários        de
                                     Registro de poços profundos        infra-estrutura   hídrica  e
                                     tubulares. Registro de obras       Outorga de Direito de Uso
                                     hídricas.                          de Recursos Hídricos.
                                     Banco de dados de uso dos          - Implantado Banco de
                                     recursos hídricos. Sanção do       Dados    e   SAD    para   o
                                     direito de uso dos recursos        controle e monitoramento
                                     hídricos.                          dos processos de outorga.
              Sistema de recursos    Sistemas de informação sobre        - Criado um Sistema de
              hídricos               recursos hídricos.                  Informações sobre Recursos
                                     Sistemas de informação              Hídricos, incluindo Rede de
                                     geográfica ­ SIGs;                  Monitoramento, Banco de Dado,
                                     Sistema de suporte a decisão;       SIG e 2 SADs (outorga e
                                     Modelos hidrológicos: quantidade, operação de reservatórios).
                                     qualidade e hidro-geológico.
Planejamento  Planos Diretores de    Preparação, atualização e           -    Criado    o    sistema    de
de recursos   Bacias Hidrográficas   complementação dos planos           armazenamento                   e
hídricos                             diretores de bacia;                 processamento de dados dos
                                     Desenvolvimento e aplicação de      Planos Diretores.
                                     sistemas de processamento de
                                     dados para apoio aos planos.
              Plano Estadual de      Preparação, avaliação e controle    - Elaborado o Plano Estadual de
              Recursos Hídricos      do Plano Estadual de Recursos       Recursos Hídricos da Bahia.
                                     Hídricos.
                                     Formulação de programas anuais
                                     e multi-anual de recursos hídricos

COMPONENTE DE INFRA-ESTRUTURA
Plano de Ação Atividades        Indicadores chave Previstos     Resultados atingidos



                                             - 51 -

                                   no PAD 17.003 ­ BR
Sistema de     Barragem de         Aumentar: a disponibilidade     -Aumento de: 4,7m3/s na disponibilidade
Ponto Novo     Ponto Novo.         hídrica per capita, o volume    hídrica superficial e de 37,25 l/s no
               Sistema de          de água distribuído, o número   volume de água distribuída;
               abastecimento       de usuários, área irrigada e    -Implantado o Sistema Ponto Novo,
               associado.          volume de água produzido;       contemplando:
               Sistema de          associações de usuários         (i) a construção de uma Barragem com
               Irrigação de Ponto Aumentar a renda per capita      capacidade para acumular
               Novo.               Melhoria da saúde: nutrição,    aproximadamente 40 milhões de metros
                                   mortalidade infantil, doenças   cúbicos de água;
                                   relacionadas à água, áreas      (ii) a implantação de um Sistema de
                                   irrigadas e produção agrícola;  Irrigação com área irrigável de 2.540
                                   Número de agricultores com      hectares;
                                   terras regularizadas            (iii) a implantação do Sistema de
                                                                   Abastecimento de Água das cidades de
                                                                   Ponto Novo, Filadélfia e Caldeirão
                                                                   Grande e a localidade de Jacaré,
                                                                   beneficiando diretamente 51.000
                                                                   habitantes; e a execução de um Plano
                                                                   de Reassentamento envolvendo 557
                                                                   famílias e 2.835 habitantes afetados
                                                                   pelas obras da barragem.
                                                                   - Aumento de empregos diretos para
                                                                   2.600 habitantes e indiretos para 3.900
                                                                   habitantes, todos na região do Projeto
                                                                   Ponto Novo.
                                                                   - Houve diminuição dos casos de
                                                                   dengue em 72,7%; diarréia em 77,4%
                                                                   entre 1999 e 2005.
                                                                   - Apoiada à criação e concedido apoio a
                                                                   4 Associações de Usuários de Água
Projeto de     Adutoras,           Aumentar: a disponibilidade     - Aumento de 100 l/s na disponibilidade
Tucano         reservatórios,      hídrica per capita, o volume    hídrica;
               implantação de      de água distribuído, o número -Implantada a infra-estrutura hídrica
               poços e projetos    de usuários, área irrigada e   relacionada ao Projeto Tucano,
               demonstrativos      volume de água produzido;      atendendo com abastecimento de
                                   associações de usuários        água, as sedes municipais de
                                   Aumentar a renda per capita    Nordestina, Cansanção e Quijingue
                                   Melhoria da saúde: nutrição,   e mais 29 localidades, além de
                                   mortalidade infantil, doenças  reforçar o atendimento a
                                   relacionadas à água, áreas     localidades do município de
                                   irrigadas e produção agrícola; Euclides da Cunha, beneficiando
                                   Número de agricultores com     33.400 habitantes.
                                   terras regularizadas.
Recuperação    Implementação e     Área reflorestada e mantida;    -134 ha de mata ciliar revegetada,
da mata ciliar recuperação de      Redução do transporte de        120.000 mudas plantadas e 8 viveiros
               mata ciliar         sedimentos;                     construídos;
                                   Monitoramento da qualidade      - Realizado monitoramento da qualidade
                                   da água.                        da água em 41 pontos de amostragem
                                                                   com 274 análises realizadas em 5
                                                                   reservatórios e 44 pontos com 4.271
                                                                   análises realizadas nas bacias do
                                                                   Itapicuru, Paraguaçu e Verde/Jacaré
Reabilitação   Pesquisa de         Número de estruturas            - Elaborado um Manual de O&M de
das estruturas estruturas hídricas recuperadas;                    infra-estrutura hídrica



                                                - 52 -

hídricas       e formulação de    Vazão e volumes de água        - 2 barragens recuperadas e 5 com O&M
existentes     propostas de       recuperados;                   eficiente;
               recuperação.       Eficiência de operação e
                                  manutenção;
                                  Serviço de operação e
                                  manutenção.
Outros         Elaboração de      Número de projetos             - 5 estudos de viabilidades e 5 projetos
sistemas       estudos e projetos elaborados;                    de barragens elaborados, utilizando
               de outras obras de Critérios usados atualizados e critérios atualizados e inovadores;
               estrutura hídrica. inovados;                      - 5 estudos de ambientais;
                                  Avaliação da evolução da       - 2 estudos de reassentamento.
                                  qualidade do projeto;
                                  Estudos de qualidade
                                  ambiental e reassentamento.
Obras não                                                        - Construída a barragem de Pindobaçu
previstas                                                        regularizando 1,59 m3/s;
                                                                - Em construção a barragem de
                                                                Bandeira de Melo que regularizará
                                                                18,83 m3/s;
                                                                - Eletrificação do sistema de
                                                                irrigação de Ponto Novo,
                                                                disponibilizando 13.8 Kw.
Além dos indicadores citados nos Quadros acima, o Projeto desenvolveu, no seu último ano,
outros indicadores numéricos específicos que constam do Relatório Final de Avaliação da
Implementação e
do Impacto do PGRH.



3.2. Avaliação dos Resultados Alcançados

Em uma análise da execução do PGRH, comparativamente com os objetivos propostos, é
notório que os resultados obtidos extrapolaram o que foi planejado, conforme as seguintes
constatações:

Gerenciamento de recursos hídricos:

As avaliações realizadas junto aos órgãos executores demonstraram que o Projeto, ajudou no
incremento da eficiência das atividades de planejamento do setor; contribuiu para a melhoria
da qualidade dos projetos de engenharia e estudos conferindo-lhes uma visão bem mais
ampla da bacia hidrográfica; criou condições para trabalhos de organização e capacitação de
usuários de água; concedeu apoio técnico especializado; apoiou na reestruturação e na
incorporação de práticas administrativas, sobretudo no acompanhamento de despesas;
estabeleceu sistemática de reassentamento, envolvendo aspectos sociais, altamente
positivos, não previstos normalmente em outros projetos de governo; contribuiu para uma
melhor definição da política ambiental do Estado da Bahia; contribuiu para a educação
ambiental da população e para o empoderamento deste tipo de ação pelos beneficiários;
promoveu o fortalecimento institucional para o cumprimento das atividades de monitoramento
e avaliação ambiental em bacias hidrográficas; possibilitou a adoção de parcerias entre
entidades científicas, para a realização do monitoramento ambiental; e possibilitou avanços
tecnológicos, sobretudo aqueles relacionados com informações hidrométricas, bancos de
dados e sistemas de apoio à decisão;

O fortalecimento da SRH se deu por meio da legislação que alterou a sua estrutura


                                               - 53 -

organizacional, definiu suas atividades, lhe deu autonomia administrativa e financeira.
Complementarmente, foi implantado o seu Planejamento Estratégico e foram implantados os
seus sistemas: Documental, de Divulgação Institucional, Administrativo, de Gerenciamento de
Informações e de Gerenciamento de futuros projetos. Cabe destacar a Certificação do órgão
no ano de 2005 na ISO 9001:2000, alçando a SRH o posto de ser o primeiro órgão gestor de
recursos hídricos do Brasil a obter uma certificação ISO abrangendo o processo de outorga.

Houve um expressivo ganho de integração de esforços, de melhor qualidade e produtividade
dos serviços prestados nos municípios, quando da implantação das 10 Casas de Recursos
Naturais, pois estas funcionam como representações locais voltadas para o atendimento de
usuários, tendo como principal objetivo o apoio à realização de todos os trabalhos por cada
um dos órgãos do gerenciamento de recursos hídricos do Estado da Bahia.

No que se refere ao fortalecimento das organizações de usuários de água, houve um grande
envolvimento e participação da população, contando inclusive com o apoio de Universidades
Estaduais, que implementaram projetos na área de organização de usuários da água em
parceria com o órgão gestor.

Os recursos oriundos da cobrança, pelos serviços prestados pela SRH no fornecimento de
água bruta de seus reservatórios, passarão a ser receita da SRH, o que propiciará autonomia
relativa à autarquia para desenvolvimento de estudos e custeio do órgão. Os recursos
oriundos da cobrança nos rios de domínio estadual serão direcionados para o Fundo Estadual
de Recursos Hídricos ­ FERH que deverá elaborar um planejamento anual da sua aplicação,
devendo, parte dele, reverter para a própria bacia onde os recursos foram arrecadados.

O banco de dados contribuiu para o controle e monitoramento da situação da grande maioria
dos usuários de recursos hídricos, bem como permitiu que, internamente, a SRH pudesse
controlar, de forma eficiente, a situação dos processos de outorga.


Infra-estrutura:

A criação do Painel de Segurança de Barragens ­ PSB proporcionou, não apenas a SRH e as demais
entidades governamentais,vinculadas à gestão de recursos hídricos, mas também a todas as empresas
de consultoria e construção das barragens, a melhoria da qualidade dos projetos elaborados e
consequentemente a economicidade das estruturas projetadas, chegando, inclusive, a definir padrões
para certas estruturas comuns;


O Plano de Reassentamento de Ponto Novo serviu como um modelo de atendimento às populações
atingidas por obras de barragem, antes norteada por uma política baseada apenas em indenizações
financeiras, quase sempre aviltadas, e por isso mesmo, altamente prejudiciais à vida das pessoas, na
grande maioria, pobres e carentes. O Plano proveu: (1) assistência legal para revisar documentação de
terra existente e prover títulos de terra válidos; (2) serviços de extensão para ajudar efetivamente os
fazendeiros a fazer a transição de agricultura de sequeiro para irrigada; (3) treinamento em O&M de
infra-estrutura hídrica; e (4) assistência para fortalecer as associações comunitárias.

O aumento da área dos lotes, de 2 para 5 ha com sistema de irrigação por aspersão, medida pontuada
como um benefício extra, favoreceu os agricultores, que puderam aumentar a área cultivada e
consequentemente à produção e renda;

A perenização de rios, conseguida após a construção e recuperação de barragens, proporcionou acesso



                                                      - 54 -

seguro e sustentável a água para uso potável e na irrigação, em áreas domiciliares rurais pobres,
melhorando a saúde da população e gerando emprego e renda;

A transferência de O&M de barragens para a SRH, auxiliará no processo de cobrança pelo uso da água,
garantindo a futura sustentabilidade do sistema.

3.3. Custos e Financiamento do PGRH

O PGRH foi orçado em US$ 85,0 milhões, dos quais US$ 51,0 milhões oriundos do
empréstimo do Banco Mundial e US$ 34,0 milhões da contrapartida do Estado. Foram
utilizados até setembro de 2005, US$ 83,997,846.00 sendo US$ 50,925,939.00 oriundos do
financiamento do Banco Mundial e US$ 33,071,907.00 da contrapartida estadual. Despesas
continuarão a serem pagas até 31 de janeiro de 2006, data de encerramento do período de
graça.




                                                - 55 -

Quadro 2 - PGRH - Programação e Execução Financeira por Componente (Valores em
US$ 1.00)

                           ITENS                          PAD AGO/97  REALIZADO(1)   %
                                                                                  REALIZADO

  A. Componente Estrutural

     1. Sistema Ponto Novo                                 34.525,293   34.027,231      98,6

        a) Barragem                                        12.296,721   11.875,166      96,6

        b) Plano de Reassentamento                          5.030,036    6.997,891     139,1

        c) Recuperação Vegetação Ciliar                     2.134,025      176,251       8,3

        d) Sistema de Irrigação                            11.494,722    7.700,613      67,0

        e) Eletrificação do Sistem a de Irrigação                  -     1.603,550        -

        f) Sistem a de Abastecimento de Água                3.569,789    5.673,760     158,9

         Sub-Total Ponto Novo                              34.525,293   34.027,231      98,6

     2. Projeto Tucano                                      8.503,894    7.219,589      84,9

     3. Recuperação de estr. hídricas deficientes          10.293,535    2.169,185      21,1

     4. Outros Sistemas: Estudos e Projetos                 1.615,121    2.641,483     163,5

     5. Outras Intervenções: Barragem e Eletrificação              -    18.993,204        -

        a) Barragem de Bandeira de Melo                            -     9.391,558        -

        b) Reassentamento Barragem Bandeira de Melo                -       475,993        -

        c) Barragem de Pindobaçu                                   -     9.049,575        -

        d) Reassentamento Barragem Pindobaçu                       -       76,079         -

     Sub-Total Estrutural                                  54.937,843   65.050,692     118,4

  B. Gerenciamento de R. Hídricos

    1. Componente Institucional                            13.068,727    8.065,530      61,7

        a) Desenv. Sist. Integrado Gestão de R. Hídricos      861,466      917,200     106,5

        b) Desenv. Entidades estaduais de R.Hídricos        7.022,891    6.228,438     88,7

        c) Desenv. Legislação Gestão R. Hídricos              649,843           -         -

        d) Capacitação e treinamento recursos humanos       3.539,234      919,893      26,0

        e) Eventos difusão Gerenciamento R. Hídricos          995,294           -         -

         Sub-Total Componente Institucional                13.068,727    8.065,530      61,7

    2. Apoio Técnico                                       10.867,917    4.177,096      38,4

        a) Consolidação base informações hidrológicas       5.918,679    2.991,448      50,5

        b) Cadastro de Usuários e Outorga R. Hídricos       3.422,422      335,480       9,8

        c) Desenvolvimento de Sistema de R. Hídricos        1.526,816      850,168      55,7

         Sub-Total Apoio Técnico                           10.867,917    4.177,096      38,4

    3. Instrumentos de Gerenciamento R. Hídricos            3.159,503    1.879,152      59,5

        a) Planos Diretores de Bacias                       1.730,674           -         -




                                                 - 56 -

4. PRINCIPAIS FATORES QUE AFETARAM A IMPLEMENTAÇÃO DO PGRH


4.1. Fatores fora do Controle do Governo Estadual

·       Em 2004, o ritmo das obras foi prejudicado em função de greves deflagradas por
funcionários públicos de órgãos responsáveis pelas obras. Como impacto da paralisação, os
cronogramas para conclusão das obras atingiram estágio crítico pela desaceleração das
atividades técnicas e administrativas dos órgãos;
·       Ocorrência de manifestações e protestos do Movimento dos Atingidos por Barragens ­
MAB, que interditaram por diversas vezes o acesso ao canteiro de obras de barragens, por
discordância com pontos acertados no reassentamento de famílias atingidas;
·       A maior disponibilidade financeira criada pela valorização do dólar frente ao real trouxe
a possibilidade de executar, novas obras e intervenções.

4.2. Fatores, em Geral, Sujeitos ao Controle do Governo

·       Dificuldades na implementação dos convênios com os parceiros e o cumprimento das
obrigações em tempo e forma exigiram grandes esforços de coordenação e integração, vez
que as prioridades do Projeto nem sempre coincidiam com as dos parceiros;
·       Modificações de configuração legal dos órgãos parceiros ao longo do período de
execução, o que impactou as relações interinstitucionais;
·       Falta de planejamento, entre os anos de 2000 e 2001, por não prever que novos
projetos deveriam estar sendo elaborados simultaneamente, vez que inexistiam projetos em
condições de serem executados, considerando as exigências do Banco Mundial;

5. SUSTENTABILIDADE DAS AÇÕES REALIZADAS

Pode-se considerar que a sustentabilidade do gerenciamento dos recursos hídricos está
assegurada, devido:

(i)     As funções da SRH estarem sedimentadas e fundamentadas em legislação adequada
e moderna, demonstrando que o Governo do Estado definiu parâmetros em busca de uma
eficiente gestão dos seus recursos hídricos;
(ii)    a perspectiva da implantação da cobrança pelo uso da água bruta no Estado da Bahia;

(iii)   as práticas e metodologias implementadas pelo PGRH estarem sendo adotadas por
diferentes instituições levando à consolidação dos conceitos no Estado;
(iv)    os procedimentos em relação à implantação de infra-estrutura hídrica adotados pelo
PGRH foram incorporados aos projetos de engenharia e as obras executadas pelos órgãos
estaduais;
(v)     as Sistemáticas de Reassentamento seguidas pelo PGRH estarem, em parte, sendo
observadas por outros projetos que requerem reassentamentos de populações;
(vi)    a manutenção pelo Estado de um Comitê de Segurança de Barragens, nos moldes
daquele instituído no âmbito do PGRH; e
(vii)   O Estado da Bahia ter iniciado, ainda em 2004, procedimentos para buscar novo
financiamento do Banco Mundial, visando à continuidade das ações do PGRH.


                                              - 57 -

A sustentabilidade das ações de infra-estrutura hídrica foi fortalecida no Estado da Bahia, a
partir da implementação do PGRH:

(i)     uma vez que a SRH tornou-se responsável pela segurança, operação e manutenção,
bem como pela gestão dos reservatórios e áreas de entorno, de barragens prioritárias, o que
permitirá a cobrança pelo uso da água e posterior melhoria na O&M dos reservatórios; e
(ii)    uma vez que os projetos elaborados a partir do PGRH, passaram a dar ênfase nas
especificações de métodos construtivos mais apropriados e condizentes com as
características regionais, na qualidade dos materiais empregados nas obras, e na
operacionalidade e adequação dos equipamentos hidromecânicos e de instrumentação,
garantindo a maior durabilidade das obras.


6. AVALIAÇÃO ECONÔMICA

A mesma metodologia, apresentada no documento "Análise do Impacto Econômico,
Financeiro e Fiscal ­ MAIO DE 1997" foi utilizada para a avaliação econômica ex post do
Projeto, incorporando todos os custos e investimentos nos componentes: (1) Gerenciamento
de Recursos Hídricos, contemplando os cálculos dos valores anuais dos impactos mais
prováveis; e (2) infra-estrutura, utilizando ferramentas analíticas específicas para cada tipo de
atividade analisada.

A viabilidade do componente de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hídricos apresentou uma
relação custo/benefício em torno 0,0042, quando se utilizou o valor máximo dos custos anuais
do componente. O resultado da análise indica claramente um grande impacto mínimo,
garantindo a viabilidade econômica de implementar o projeto. Considerando-se, no entanto, o
valor médio (em vez do valor máximo) dos custos anuais do componente Gerenciamento de
Recursos Hídricos, equivalente a US$ 2,5 milhões, esta relação seria de 0,0030, equivalente à
previsão ex ante.

Para a avaliação econômica do componente Infra-Estrutura, foram calculadas as taxas
internas de retorno econômica (TIREs) para dois sub-componentes de infra-estrutura ­ Ponto
Novo, com dois tipos diferentes de intervenção (irrigação e sistema de abastecimento de
água) e Tucano, com apenas o sistema de abastecimento de água ­, por meio da análise
custo benefício, atingindo os seguintes resultados comparativos:

Quadro 3 ­ Taxa Interna de Retorno Econômico ­ TIRE
Benefício                                      ex ante               ex post
                                             Ponto Novo       TucanoPonto NovoTucano
Irrigação                                      32,2%               20,1%30,3%*
Abastecimento de Água                          24,0%             32,8%22,4%45,8%

(*) ­ Não foi implantado do sistema de irrigação Tucano.




                                                      - 58 -

7. DESEMPENHO DO BANCO MUNDIAL E DO ESTADO



7.1 Desempenho do Banco Mundial

·      O Banco Mundial teve o papel de orientador permanente na formulação de diretrizes e
na exigência quanto à realização das ações previstas.
·      O Banco Mundial contribuiu para a aplicação de critérios para a indenização e para o
reassentamento, que garantiram maior justiça social;
·      Houve uma contribuição significativa do Banco Mundial quando da concepção do
perímetro de irrigação, em relação à organização social dos beneficiários e durante a
implantação, através de supervisão técnica;
·      Os prazos de implementação poderiam ser reduzidos a partir da diminuição dos prazos
de tramitação dos pleitos junto ao Banco Mundial.

7.2. Desempenho do Estado da Bahia

·      O Mutuário sempre concedeu prioridade as ações do Projeto, em termos de alocação
de recursos financeiros e humanos;
·      Houve empenho não só na manutenção da equipe de gerenciamento do Projeto como
também na escolha cuidadosa dos Dirigentes que se sucederam na administração da SRH e
Secretarias envolvidas;
·      O aparelhamento legal, técnico e logístico do setor foi facilitado, conforme revela a
aprovação de diversas leis, inclusive aquelas que legitimam a cobrança pelo uso da água,
reforços técnicos foram concedidos, além do investimento financeiro realizado no
fortalecimento e descentralização da SRH;
·      A autorização concedida pelo Governador do Estado para iniciar a cobrança pelo uso
da água, ainda em 2005, demonstra a importância dada ao setor e a busca por sua
sustentabilidade no longo prazo.


8. PRINCIPAIS LIÇÕES ASSIMILADAS 8.1. Em relação ao Componente Institucional

·      A descentralização de atividades de gestão contribui para que os usuários de água se
aculturem, participem, tenham maior sentimento de comunidade e concedam maior
importância à água e para uma maior eficiência das ações de fiscalização de usos;
·      É de suma importância o apoio técnico, mediante a contratação de especialistas, para
respaldar a definição de ações de gestão de recursos hídricos, as formas mais adequadas
para a intervenção em bacias hidrográficas e a definição de critério para a implantação de
infra-estrutura hídrica;
·      O alto retorno conseguido pelo trabalho de educação ambiental direcionado para o uso
da água, em comunidades dispersas, demonstrou a validade destas atividades, em benefício
dos usuários da água, além de uma alta relação beneficio/custo para a sociedade como um
todo.

8.2. Em relação ao Componente de Infra-estrutura




                                            - 59 -

·      Os efeitos econômicos e sociais de Projetos como o PGRH seriam mais rápidos, se
não coubesse ao Estado implantar perímetros públicos de irrigação como alternativa de
geração de emprego e renda. O papel do Estado deveria ser somente a implantação da
infra-estrutura básica, deixando para a iniciativa privada os investimentos para a utilização das
áreas;
·      Em respeito às populações afetadas, em função do cumprimento do cronograma de
obras e em termos de soluções de menor custo, as ações relacionadas a desapropriações e
reassentamentos, devem ser equacionadas antes do inicio da execução de obras;
·      A legalização fundiária é um item de importância capital dentro do processo de
reassentamento, estes devem ser iniciados o mais cedo possível, em virtude das terras rurais
na área piloto ser na sua grande maioria, irregulares no que concerne à documentação;
·      A implantação de um lote modelo no momento da negociação com a comunidade a ser
reassentada contribuiu fortemente para adesão ao reassentamento nos lotes irrigados. As
aulas práticas de assistência técnica e associativismo também utilizaram este espaço com
sucesso, resultando na introdução de práticas agrícolas orgânicas e na criação de
associações;
·      A inserção da variável ambiental de forma efetiva desde o início do planejamento dos
projetos de engenharia e estendendo-se às fases de licitação e execução, asseguraram maior
controle ambiental, principalmente através das especificações técnicas ambientais incluídas
no edital de contratação das obras, junto às especificações técnicas inerentes às obras de
engenharia dessa natureza;
·      A possibilidade de utilização da faixa de preservação permanente e do lago
objetivando a compatibilidade com a conservação e recuperação da vegetação nesta área,
bem como a expectativa de geração de emprego e renda com a formação do lago mostrou-se
altamente motivador e satisfatório para usuários e proprietários. Esta experiência serviu de
respaldo à elaboração da Resolução do CONAMA nº 302/02, de 20 de março de 2002, que
dispõe sobre os parâmetros, definições e limites de Áreas de Preservação Permanente de
reservatórios artificiais e o regime de uso do entorno.




                                               - 60 -

- 61 -

