Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NUMBER 029191
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Bahia Water Resources Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
and
STATE OF BAHIA
Dated January 11, 1996
TRUST FUND NUMBER 029191
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1996 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan), and STATE OF BAHIA (the 
Page  2
Recipient).
WHEREAS (A)  pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has requested the 
Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B)  Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
WHEREAS (C)  the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil (Brazil), through 
the letter dated September 18, 1995 from the Secretariat of International Matters of the Ministry 
of Planning and Budget of Brazil, has agreed that the Grant be made to the Recipient;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a)  The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Sections 9.01 (a), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(viii)
Section 10.03; and
(ix)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
Page  3
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Section 2.01 (8), and the last use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, 
means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter agreement 
between Japan and the Bank and the Association referred to in Recital 
(A) of this Agreement, except that, in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" 
shall also include the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;
(vi)
the term "Project", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
"yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01.  The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
Page  4
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of eighty million 
yen (¥80,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the carrying out of the Technical Assistance 
and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Technical Assistance, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section 3.01.  The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Technical Assistance.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a)  The Recipient shall maintain records and separate accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Technical Assistance of the departments or agencies of the Recipient 
responsible for the carrying out of the Technical Assistance or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
Brazil or any other authority shall have taken any action, which, in the opinion of 
the Bank, may adversely affect, prevent, or interfere with, the carrying out of the Technical 
Assistance or the performance by the Recipient of any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
Brazil shall have failed to afford a reasonable opportunity for representatives of 
the Administrator to visit any part of its territory for purposes related to the Technical 
Assistance.
(c)
Brazil(i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased to be a 
member of the Bank; or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the International Monetary 
Fund.
(d)
Any taxes shall have been levied, in the territory of Brazil, on or in connection 
with the execution, delivery or registration of this Agreement.
(e)
Brazil shall have failed to make payment of principal or interest or any other 
amount due to the Bank or the Association under: (i) any loan or guarantee agreement between 
Page  6
Brazil and the Bank; or (ii) in consequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation of any 
kind extended by the Bank to any third party with the agreement of Brazil; or (iii) under any 
development credit agreement between Brazil and the Association.
(f)
The Bank or the Association shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of 
Brazil to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the Association because of a failure by Brazil to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement or any guarantee agreement with the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Arbitration
Section 5.01.  Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which is not 
settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with the 
UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The place of arbitration 
shall be Washington, D.C., United States of America.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01.  This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
hereto.
Section 6.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representation
Section 7.01.  The Secretary of Water Resources of the Recipient is designated as 
representatives of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Secretaria de Recursos Hídricos, Saneamento
  e Habitação
Av. Luiz Viana Filho s/n
Centro Administrativo da Bahia
Salvador, Bahia  40750-300
Brazil
Telex:   
Page  7
391  710 324
For the Administrator:
Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
 197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
 248423 (RCA),
  64145 (WUI), or
  82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF BAHIA
By /s/ Paulo Ganem Souto
Page  8
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the Grant, the 
allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
     % of
(Expressed
 Expenditures
Category
in Yen)
to be Financed
(1)
Except for Part B
of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement:
(a)
Goods
3,180,000
100%
(b)
Consultants'
services
73,110,000
100%
(2)
Goods, consultants'
services and operating 
costs under Part B
of such Schedule 2
3,710,000
100%
Total
80,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods; and (b) under 
contracts for consulting firms' and individual consultants' services costing less than $100,000 and 
$50,000 equivalent, respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
A
program to provide technical assistance in the preparation of the different components 
of the proposed Bahia Water Resources Management Project consisting of studies and other 
activities required for:
A.
Completion of baseline assessment of the major watersheds and identification of major 
water use conflicts in the Recipient's territory.
Page  9
B.
Carrying out of workshops to discuss the proposed Project, its objectives and 
components.
C.
Review of the existing administrative, regulatory and institutional frameworks for the 
Recipient's water sector.
D.
Assessment of the existing hydrologic monitoring networks in the Recipient's territory.
E.
Development of a proposal for the design of the proposed Project.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (Washington, D.C. World 
Bank, January 1995); and (ii) under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as 
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For 
complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank for the use of its 
borrowers with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use or 
cause to be used other standard forms agreed with the Administrator.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior 
Administrator review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
Page  10
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the 
amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount equivalent to $150,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that, unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $300,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
Page  11
at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within the 
period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Technical 
Assistance, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the Administrator 
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  12
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
