Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4232-BR
Loan Agreement
(Bahia Water Resources Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF BAHIA
Dated December 4, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4232-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF BAHIA (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain  obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
(C)
by a letter dated August 28, 1997 (the Water Sector Policy Letter) from 
the Borrower to the Bank, the Borrower has described its water sector policies and 
related measures; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. "The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
(d)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Annual Operating Plan" means each plan referred to in Section 3.05 (c) 
of this Agreement;
(b)
"Banco Central" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Guarantor’s Central 
Bank;
(c)
"CERB" means Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahia, the Borrower’s rural 
engineering company established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 2,929 of May 11, 
1971;
(d)
"CERB Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (i) 
of this Agreement;
(e)
"CIRH" means Conselho Inter-Institucional de Recursos Hídricos, the 
Borrower’s established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 6,295 of March 21, 1997;
(f)
"CRA" means Centro de Recursos Ambientais, the Borrower’s center of 
environmental resources established pursuant to the Borrower’s Lei Delegada No. 31 of 
March 3, 1983;
(g)
"CRA Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) 
of this Agreement;
Page  3
(h)
"Dam Safety Review Panel" means the panel of experts in dam safety 
referred to in Section 3.02 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(i)
"DDF" means Departamento de Desenvolvimento Florestal, the Borrower’s 
department of forest development established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 6,812 
of January 18, 1995, and housed within SEAGRI (as hereinafter defined);
(j)
"DDF Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) 
of this Agreement;
(k)
"EA-PN" means the environmental assessment prepared by the Borrower for 
the Ponto Novo Subproject (as hereinafter defined), and dated April 30, 1997;
(l)
"EMBASA" means Empresa Baiana de Águas e Saneamento S. A., the Borrower’s 
water company established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 2,929 of May 11, 1971;
(m)
"EMBASA Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(n)
"Expropriation Decree" means the Borrower’s Decree No. 6,459 of June 4, 
1997, issued for the purpose of expropriating an area defined therein, such area to be 
used in connection with the construction of the Ponto Novo Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined) and implementation of the RPAP-PN (as hereinafter defined);
(o)
"Ponto Novo Dam Safety Review Panel" means the panel of experts in dam 
safety established pursuant to a letter of appointment issued by SRH on June 30, 1997, 
for the Ponto Novo Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(p)
"Ponto Novo Subproject" means the Subproject (as hereinafter defined), 
approved by the Bank, which comprises the construction of a dam, installation of rural 
water pipelines and an irrigation conveyance system, all such infrastructure to be 
located in the Ponto Novo area, as such area is defined in the Project Implementation 
Manual;
(q)
"Priority River Basins" means the following river basins within the 
Borrower’s territory: Itapicuru (including the sedimentary aquifer of Tucano), Jacaré 
Verde and Alto Paraguaçu;
(r)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual issued by SRH (as 
hereinafter defined) and dated April 18, 1997, containing inter alia: (i) the 
operating procedures for the execution of the Project, including the plans and 
procedures related to the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure to be 
financed under the Project, training, technical assistance, environmental conservation 
and protection, and other activities to be carried out under the Project; and (ii) the 
procedures for the carrying out of the institutional strengthening of existing WUAs 
(as hereinafter defined), and support in the creation of new WUAs (as hereinafter 
defined);
(s)
"Project Monitoring Letter" means the letter dated July 16, 1997 
delivered by the Borrower’s Secretary of SRHSH (as hereinafter defined) to the Bank, 
setting forth the indicators and targets to be used in monitoring the progress of the 
implementation of the Project and in the evaluation of its results;
(t)
"RPAP-PN" means the  resettlement program and action plan prepared by the 
Borrower for the Ponto Novo Subproject, and dated April 23, 1997;
(u)
"SEAGRI" means Secretaria de Agricultura, Irrigação e Reforma Agrária, 
the Borrower’s secretariat of agriculture, irrigation and agrarian reform;
(v)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(w)
"SRH" means Superintendência de Recursos Hídricos, the Borrower’s 
directorate of water resources housed within SRHSH (as hereinafter defined);
(x)
"SRHSH" means Secretaria de Recursos Hídricos, Saneamento e Habitação, 
the Borrower’s secretariat of water resources, sanitation and housing;
(y)
"Subproject" means a specific investment project consistent with the 
WRMP-Alto Paraguaçu, WRMP-Itapicuru, WRMP-Jacaré Verde (as such terms are hereinafter 
defined), as the case may be, comprising construction and rehabilitation of water 
Page  4
resources storage and distribution infrastructure located in the Priority River 
Basins, which has been approved by the Bank for financing under the Project;
(z)
"UGP" means Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto, the Project management 
unit established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 6,295 of March 21, 1997;
(aa)
"WUAs" means water users associations duly and lawfully established in 
the Borrower’s territory;
(bb)
"WRMP-Alto Paraguaçu" means the water resources management plan for the 
Alto Paraguaçu river basin dated August 1996;
(cc)
"WRMP-Itapicuru" means the water resources management plan for the 
Itapicuru river basin dated August 1996; and
(dd)
"WRMP-Jacaré Verde" means the water resources management plan for the 
Jacaré Verde river basin dated August 1996.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty one million dollars 
($51,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of
the Bank drawn down after June 
30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the 
Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
Page  5
loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing 
interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) 
of this 
Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SRH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with: 
(i) the Water Sector Policy Letter; (ii) the Project Implementation Manual; (iii) the 
relevant Annual Operating Plan, as referred to in Section 3.05 (c) of this Agreement; 
and (iv) appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and water resources 
management practices, and substantially in accordance with the targets set forth in 
the Project Monitoring Letter, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
through SRH, maintain until the completion of the Project, a 
management unit (the UGP) with adequate responsibilities, 
structure and functions, and with staff in adequate numbers and 
with adequate qualifications, for the purposes of assisting SRH in 
the carrying out of the Project;
(ii)
maintain until the completion of the Project, an 
inter-institutional water resources council (the CIRH) with 
adequate responsibilities, structure and functions, such Council 
to be comprised of one representative from the SRHSH who will 
chair the CIRH, one representative from the Borrower’s Secretariat 
of Planning, Science and Technology and one representative from 
the Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture for the purposes of, 
inter alia: (A) advising the Borrower with respect to Project 
implementation; (B) providing the Borrower with policy guidance on 
issues related to the Project; (C) approving the relevant Annual 
Operating Plan; and (D) evaluating Project results; and 
(iii)
not later than December 31, 1998, establish and thereafter 
maintain, or cause to be established and thereafter maintained, as 
provided in the Water Sector Policy Letter, a water user 
association or associations, as the case may be, for the Itapicuru 
River Basin (the WUAs).
Page  6
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall:
(a) (i) enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with CERB and EMBASA 
(the CERB Agreement and the EMBASA Agreement, respectively), such agreements to 
determine, inter alia, the respective role of such entities in the carrying out of the 
infrastructure works required under Part B of the Project; and (ii) enter into 
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with CRA and DDF through SEAGRI (the CRA 
Agreement and the DDF Agreement, respectively), such agreements to determine, inter 
alia, the respective role of such entities in the carrying out of their environmental 
and forest related responsibilities under Part B of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of the Ponto Novo Subproject:
(i)
carry out such Subproject in accordance with the RPAP-PN and the 
EA-PN; and
(ii)
without limitation to the generality of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement and under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank: (A) 
maintain the Ponto Novo Dam Safety Review Panel during the design 
and initial operation of the Ponto Novo Subproject in accordance 
with the terms of reference for such panel approved by the Bank; 
(B) cause the dam, reservoir and related structures constructed 
under the Ponto Novo Subproject to be periodically inspected by 
independent qualified professionals under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, in order to determine whether there are 
any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the 
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of the 
same, which may endanger their safety; (C) furnish to the Bank for 
its review the periodic reports of the Ponto Novo Dam Safety 
Review Panel and of the professionals referred to in subparagraph 
(B) above, together with the Borrower's own comments; and (D) no 
later than six months before the expected completion of the dam, 
reservoir and related structures under the Ponto Novo Subproject, 
propose to the Bank for its review and approval, appropriate 
arrangements for their operation and maintenance.
(c)
Prior to submitting a Subproject for the approval of the Bank (other than 
the Ponto Novo Subproject):
(i)
in the event such Subproject requires the undertaking of 
environmental protection measures: (A) prepare and furnish to the 
Bank the corresponding environmental assessment, such assessment 
to be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) 
carry out the mitigation measures provided in the environmental 
assessment in a manner and within a timetable satisfactory to the 
Bank; and
(ii)
without limitation to the generality of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement and whenever a Subproject includes the construction of a 
dam which is fifteen meters or more in height, or which is between 
ten and fifteen meters in height and presents, in the reasonable 
opinion of the Bank, special design complexities: (A) establish 
and thereafter maintain during the design and initial operation of 
such Subproject, a Dam Safety Review Panel under terms of 
reference and arrangements acceptable to the Bank; (B) cause the 
relevant dam, reservoir and related structures to be periodically 
inspected by independent qualified professionals under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, in order to determine whether 
there are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or 
in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation 
of the same, which may endanger their safety; (C) furnish to the 
Bank for its review the periodic reports of the Dam Safety Review 
Panel and of the professionals referred to in subparagraph (B) 
above, together with the Borrower's own comments; and (D) no later 
than six months before the expected completion of the relevant 
dam, reservoir and related structures, propose to the Bank for its 
review and approval, appropriate arrangements for their operation 
and maintenance.
(d)
Observe strict compliance with the WRMP-Itapicuru, WRMP-Jacaré Verde and 
Page  7
WRMP-Alto Paraguaçu.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1997, furnish to 
the Bank a survey, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, containing baseline 
socio-economic data of the households benefiting or potentially benefiting from the 
Project.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
in the months of March and September of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank reports on the progress in the implementation of 
the Project during the previous six months, which shall take into consideration the 
indicators and targets set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter, and to be of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(b)
in the months of April and October of each year during Project 
implementation, hold reviews jointlywith the Bank (the review to take place in April 
of the year 2000 or when disbursements from the Loan Account have reached 50% of the 
amount of the Loan, whichever is earlier, to be the mid-term review), such reviews to 
be based on the reports referred to in paragraph (a) above and, thereafter, take or 
cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower 
and the Bank, during the reviews referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the 
efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action 
to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such reviews; 
and
(c)
in the month of September of each year during Project implementation, 
except for the first year, furnish to the Bank an annual plan satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Annual Operating Plan), describing, inter alia, the Project activities (including 
Subprojects) to be carried out during the next calendar year, including the cost 
thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the CERB Agreement, the CRA Agreement the DDF Agreement and the 
EMBASA Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce any of such agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation  thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
        (b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower in charge of the execution of the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
Page  8
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, beginning in 1998, employ auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out annual audits of 
Eligiblethe performance of the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, and, 
promptly thereafter, furnish  to the Bank the reports of such audits by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall  have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Expropriation Decree or any 
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to affect, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the CERB Agreement, the CRA Agreement, the DDF Agreement and the EMBASA 
Agreement, have become effective; and 
(b)
the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central. Central 
Bankof Brazil
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
Page  9
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly 
registered by Banco CentralCentral Bank of Brazil.
Section 6.03. The date March 4, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of SRHSH of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Recursos Hídricos,
  Saneamento e Habitação
4a. Avenida, 420
Centro Administrativo da Bahia
41746-900
Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brasília, D.F., Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Authorized Representative
Page  10
STATE OF BAHIA
By /s/ Paulo Ganem Souto
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
  % of
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures
Category
   (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
 9,200,000
75%
(2)
Works
16,400,000
55%
(3)
Consultants’ 
16,550,000
90% of local expenditures 
Services
for services of 
consultants domiciled 
within the territory of 
the Guarantor and 100% of 
foreign expenditures for 
services of other 
consultants
(4)
RPAP-PN 
(a)
Works
 1,805,000
80% 
(b)
Goods
   286,000
80%
(c)
Training
    21,000
80%
(d)
Subsistence    358,000
80%
Allowance
       and Support 
Services
(5)
Recurrent Costs
   380,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated
 6,000,000
TOTAL
51,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;
(c)
the term "Subsistence Allowance and Support Services" means the 
expenditures incurred in the relocation of the population affected by the Ponto Novo 
Subproject, as described and regulated in the RPAP-PN; 
(d)
the term "Recurrent Costs" means expenditures made for communications, 
travel and per diem for the purposes of supporting the coordination and supervision 
activities to be carried out by UGP; and
(e)
the term "Training" means training activities to be carried out under the 
RPAP-PN and related to the operation and maintenance of water infrastructure.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
Page  11
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$2,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after December 1, 1996 or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement, 
whichever is later; and
(b)
expenditures under a Subproject, unless the Bank has approved such 
Subproject.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; (ii) works costing less than $350,000 equivalent; (iii) 
services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (iv) services 
of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to provide reliable and sustainable 
access to water for potable, municipal, industrial and irrigation uses in the Priority 
River Basins; (b)  to promote participatory management and rational use of water 
resources; (c) to develop a sustainable system of administration, operation and 
maintenance for rural water supply and irrigation infrastructure; and (d) to establish 
and promote replicable models of integrated water resources management systems in the 
Priority River Basins. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Water Resources Management
1.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s institutions which are involved in Project 
implementation activities, and of the WUAs, with emphasis on those in the Priority 
River Basins, to manage water resources in a sustainable and efficient manner through 
the provision of technical assistance, training programs and equipment.
2.
Establishment and thereafter operation of an entity (or institutional 
reorganization of SRH) to appropriately manage the Borrower’s water resources, 
focusing initially on the Priority River Basins, through, inter alia: (i) enhancement 
and stabilization of water supplies; (ii) coordination of the administration, 
operation and maintenance of water resources infrastructure; (iii) promotion of sound 
environmental strategies for water resources management, including water quality 
standards; and (iv) encouragement of efficient water usage, through allocation and 
enforcement of water rights, provision of support aiming at resolving conflicts on 
water use and management issues, cost-recovery mechanisms, collection of tariffs, and 
execution of water users’ education programs; and provision of technical assistance, 
training and equipment therefor.
3.
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to enable water users 
to participate in water resources management and administer, operate and maintain 
water resources infrastructure.
4.
Development of a strong public information and user education program to ensure 
stakeholder involvement in water resources management and conservation.
Part B:
Infrastructure Investments in the Priority River Basins
Carrying out of Subprojects, including the RPAP-PN.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
Page  12
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2003
through October 15, 2012
2,550,000
____________________
*
The figures in this column represetn dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate expressed as a 
percentage per annum applicable 
to the Loan on the day of 
prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than threeyears but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years 
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Page  13
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works related to the construction of dams, reservoirs and related 
structures under the Project shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less than 
$350,000 equivalent per contract, and works estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or 
more per contract, but less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works under this Part C.1, bidding 
documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
Page  14
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable to the 
Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more; 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Guarantor’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on 
December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  15
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $5,000,000, or 
such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $2,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $10,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  16
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
Page  17
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
