c. :36
FILE COPY                       RESTRICTED
F ILE  COPY                       Report No. PE-20a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representi-ng their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
November 12, 1970
Education Projects Department



CURRUf EUIWAMrS
1 U.S. dollar * 1 R.D. peso
MEASURES
i 2        -  1.20 sq. yd. or
10.76 sq. ft.
1 kK2      -  0.38 sq. mlues
1 hectare   -  2.47 acres



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATIION PRO.hECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....................................         i
I.   IINTRODUCTION ................                                 I1
The Request.                                                    1
Socio-economic Background ...........1  .................       1
The Education System and the Recent Reform.                     2
II.  M{ANPOWER-EDUCATION NEEDS AND EDUCATION FINANCE                 4
Labor Force and Labor Market ..........................         4
Manpower Requirements and Shortages-General .4
Employment for Secondary School Leavers.                        5
Teachers for Primary Schools.                                   5
Need for Structural Changes and Quality Improvement             6
Education Finance .................  ........                   6
III. TIE PROJECT.                                                    8
General.                                                        8
Lower Secondary Schools.                                        8
Multilateral Secondary Schools.                                 9
Primary Teacher Training Colleges.                              9
Technical Assistance .................... I    ,    10
Cost of the Project .                                          10
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT .13
Administration-Project Unit .13
Professional Services .................................        13
Land ............................       ................       13
Procurement .13
Disbursements .13
V. RECOMMENDATIONS .14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Dominican Republic during Aprill-May 1970. The mission consisted of
Messrs. D. Th. I<oulourianos (economist), R. Byron (technical educator),
N. Fisher (general educator, consultant) and L. 6ecco Larravide (architect,
consultant).



-2-
Table of Contents (Conttd)
APPENDIX I - EDUCATION AND TRAINING
APPENDIX II - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
LIST OF ANNEXES AND CHARTS
ANNEX
1.   Primary School Enrollment and Teacher Needs
2.   Basic Economic Data
3.   Education Expenditures
4.   Project School Details
5.   Contingencv Allowances
6.   Capital Unit Costs in New Project Institutions
7.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHART
1.   Organization of the Secretariat for Education
2.   Structure of the Education System, 1969-70
3.   Enrollment and Population Pyramids, 1968-69
4.   Primary and Secondary Enrollments
5.   Project Implementation Schedule
MAP



JOM%INICiAN tl-UBlC
BASIC DATA
General
Total Area                                    418,700 km.2
Total Population (1969)                       4.17 million
Urban Population (1969)                       1.38 million
Population Growth (1960-69): Total            3.6% p.a.
Urban          4.6% p.a.   2
Population Density                            85.6 per knr.
Gross National Product (1969)                 US$1,248 million
(at current market prices)
GNP per capita (1969)                         W$299
GNP growth rate:       1964-69                2.0% p.a.
(at constant prices)  1966-69                 4.6% p.a.
L;ectoral Distribution of GDP (1969):
(at current prices)
Agriculture                              2h4.2%
industry                                 16,0%
Government                                8. 5V
Transport and Communications              6.8%
Con,,truction                             4.6%
Mining                                    1.3%
(ther                                    38.4%
Government revenue as a percentage
of GNEP (1969)                                17.2%
Education, 1968/69
Primary school enrollment as a
percentage of age group 7-12                 103.2%
Percentage of age group 7-12
enrolled in primary schools                   80.2%
Secondary school enrollment as
a percentage of age group 13-18               17%
Literacy rate                                 55%
Government expenditure devoted to
education                                     16.9%
Total expenditure on education as a
percentage of GNP                              3.7%






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed project concentrates on the secondary level of the
educational system and is designed to assist the Government of the Domini-
can Republic in its efforts to: (a) implement its recent education reform;
(b) improve the quality and relevance of secondary education; and (c) meet
specific manpower needs.
ii.       The new structure of secondary education provides for a conumion
four-year lower secondary program with emphasis on mathematics, sciences,
pre-vocational subjects and career guidance followed by a two-year diver-
sified upper secondary program with emphasis on pre-vocational education
in industrial arts, commerce and home economics. Primary teacher training
would also he offered at the upper secondary level in separate colleges.
iii.      The acute shortage of qualified primary school teachers is ex-
pected to continue through the 1970's even if primary enrollmenL expansion
slows from the 7.4% p.a. of the recent years. Employment for th3e graduates
of the old academic secondary schiool will become increasingly difficult
and thle need for schools that prepare more readily employable graduates
is urgent.
iv.       The project would finance:
(a) Construction and equipment for:
- tlhree new lower secondary schools and equipment only for
three existing;
- six new multilateral upper secondary schools;
-  two new primary teacher colleges and extension of
tlhree others.
(b)  Technical assistance for the preparation of a comprehiensive
long term education plan, strengthening the administration of
the educational system, and guidance on teaching methods and
school organization.
(c)  A unit for the implementation and overall supervision of tilt}
project.
v.        In accordance with the government's policy of decentralization,
14 of the 17 project schiools would be appropriately located in the provinces.
Adequate numbers of qualified students and teachiing staff would be avaiLa--
ble for all project sciioois.



- ii -
vi.        A project implementation unit is being established within the
Ministry of Education to supervise the iniplementation of the project. Thie
buildings would be designed by consulting architectural firms and  construct-
ed by private construction firms.  Contracts for civil works and procurement
of materials, furniture and equipment would conforr. to the Batik/'DA gl~ LeU-
lines on international competitive bidding.  Domestic nmanufaccurers ot
furniture would be accorded a preferential margin equal to 15%' of the s
costs of competing imports or the exiztiiur rate of import dutv, whichever ;s
lower.
vii.       Construction is expected to be completed within three vears of th[e
credit agreenment signiLg.
vili .     'rhe government should be able to provide its snare of the capital
cost of the project and meet the recurrent costs it will generate without
compromising other h,igh priority needs ei rhcr in education or in other
government activities.
ix.        The project is suitable for al IDA credit of US$4.() million, about
50%. of the estimated total project cost of US$8.1 million anid equal to the
estimated foreLign exchange component.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Appraisal of an Education Project
I. INTRODUCTION
The Request
1.01      Following an IBRD/UNESCO reconnaissance-identification mission
in June 1969, the Government of the Dominican Republic approached the
Association in January 1970 with a request for financial assistance for an
education project it had prepared with help from UNESCO. In April/May 1970
a Bank mission comprising Messrs. D. Th. Koulourianos (economist), R. Byron
(technical educator), N. Fisher (general educator, consultant) and L. Secco
Larravide (architect, consultant) visited the Dominican Republic to appraise
the project.
1.02      During appraisal the proposed project was modified:  (i) to take
into account the future prospects and capacities of the institutions in-
volved, and (ii) to conform better with educational priorities and estimated
manpower needs. The project as modified would consist of:
a)   construction and equipment for:
- three new lower secondary schools and equipment only for
three existing;
-  six new multilateral upper secondary schools,
-  two new primary teacher colleges and extension of three others.
b)   13 man-years of specialists' services and 8 man-years of fellow-
ships for the preparation of a comprehensive long term education
plan, strengthening the administration at the educational system,
and guidance on teaching methods and school organization.
c)   A unit for the implementation and supervision of the project.
Tlie total cost of the project is estimated at US$8.15 million and the
foreign exchiange component at US$4.04 million.
Socio-economic Background
1.03      The Dominican Republic, covering two-thirds of the island of Ilis-
paniola, is one of the most densely populated countries in the Western
lIemisphere - 86 inhabitants per km,. The population of the country
has doubled in the last 20 years and is growing at the rate of 3.6% p.a.
Urban population accounts for one-third of the total and is growing at 4.6%
p.a. Santo Domingo, with 660,000 inhabitants, is the main economic and
administrative center, and receives most of the rural population outflow;
14 cities have populations in excess of 15,000. The rural population is
scattered in small villages, and this makes it difficult to provide equal
educational opportunities and to improve living conditions. With 47% of the



-2-
population under 15 years of age, the demand for school places is very high.
Spanish is the spoken language and the language of instruction in all schools.
TThe Education System and the Recent Reform (Appendix I)
1.04      The failures and needs of the education system were stated in
broad terms by the government in its 1968 "Platform for Economic and
Social Development of the Dominican Republic". In pursuance of the ob-
jectives of the Platform the government first turned its attention to the
problems of primary and secondary education, identifying two mutually rein-
forcing needs: i) to expand and improve the quality of secondary education,
and ii) to provide teacher training colleges, post-secondary institutions,
and the economy with better qualified secondary school leavers; in their
turn, better trained teachers would improve primary and secondary educa-
tion.
1 05      To achieve these goals the government has given legal effect
(Decree 2/69, Dec. 28, 1968) to the secondary education reforms proposed
by the Ministry of Education and the National Council on Education. From
the academic year 1969-70, secondary education will change from the 2 + 4
pattern to a new common four-year lower cycle (grades 7-10), followed by a
new two-year (grades 11-12) diversified course. Revision of curricula for
secondary education will ensure for the lower cycle an intensification of
mathematics and science, an introduction to pre-vocational education in the
fields of industrial arts, commerce and agriculture, and a guidance pro-
gram. At the upper cycle, emphasis will be placed upon pre-vocational
education in industrial arts, home economics, and commerce. The subdivision
of academic courses into philosophy, natural science and mathematics would
be replaced by a basic common course and electives. Primary teacher training
will be offered, as before, in separate colleges, and will consist of a two
year (grades 11-12) instead of a three year (grades 10-12) course.
1.06      A Certificate of Secondary Studies will be awarded upon comple-
tion of the lower cycle and will qualify the student for admission to the
upper cycle of secondary education or to a primary teacher college. The
upper cycle courses will lead to a Iligh School Diploma, academic or tech-
nical, either of which will qualify the holder for university admission.
The reform is now being gradually implemented in both secondary general
education and teacher training. The government intends to extend the
reform to cover all types and levels of education.
1.07      Primary Education, consisting of a six-year cycle starting at
age seven is provided free in public schools and is compulsory between the
ages of 7-14; in practice, however, the law is not enforced. Since 1965,
primary enrollment has grown at 7.4% per year to reach 686,500 in 1969.
This represents 103% of the age group 7-12 but if overage pupils are
excluded, the ratio is 80%. Expansion has not been matched by a quali-
tative improvement, especially in the rural areas where standards are
low. Fewer than half of the pupils complete primary education without
repetition, while late starters and repeaters boost enrollment in the
first two grades.



- 3 -
1.08      The most striking feature of priimary educationi is rLue sub-SLaildcitk
level of teaching.  Almost half of the teacliers lhave hlad eight years or less
of education and only 18% are trained teachiers. Physical facilities are
sub-standard, and the average pupil-teacher ratio is a high 56 to 1.
1.09      Secondary Education enrollment doubled in the last five years to
reach 91,400 in 1968/69, equivalent to 17% of the relevant age group. In
rural areas, only the lower grades are available and enrollment accounts
for only 8% of the total. Vocational secondary education developed out-
side the public system through the initiative of religious orders and
business organizations and accounts for only 3% of total secondary en-
rollment. Primary teacher training is offered at grades 11-12 in five
small colleges with a total enrollment of 530 in 1968/69.  The supply of
qualified secondary school teachers, the construction of new facilities
and the provision of equipment lhave not kept pace with enrollment expan-
sion, and the quality of instruction has suffered as a result.  About 60%
of the teaching staff is not qualified and there are serious shortages of
teachers in mathematics, sciences and practical subjects. Efficiency is
low, as repeaters and overage students comprise 53% of total enrollment
while only 48% of first year entrants complete the six-year course. Pri-
vate and aided schools, concentrated in the urban areas, are an important
part of secondary education, and enroll 27% of all secondary students.
1 10      Hligher Education is the aspiration of all secondary school stu-
dents in the country. The university system comprises two private univer-
sities established in the 1960's, and one public university whose effective-
ness has been impaired in recent years by internal political dissension.
About ten other private institutions offer post-secondary vocational courses
of 1-2 years; along with the private universities, they are heavily subsidized
by tihe government.  iiigher education enrollment more than doubled in the
last four years to about 12,000 in 1969; it is estimated that another 3,000
Dominicans are studying abroad. Almost nine-tenths of all ihigher education
is offered by institutions located in Santo Domingo. A marked feature of
university education is the "university college", common in many Latin
American countries, designed to prepare secondary school graduates to
meet university entrance standards. Enrollment in this "college" often
accounts for more than one-third of the university's total; repetition
is highi, and unrealistic expectations, followed by bitter frustrations,
are created there. Most of the students follow courses in humanities,
social sciences, law and medicine, and only 27% are enrolled in science
and technical faculties.



II. MANPOWER - EDUCATION NEEDS AND EDUCATION FINANCE
Labor Force and Labor Market
2.01      The economically active population of the Dominican Republic Ln-
creased by 3.5, p.a. in the 1960's to reach 1.1 million in 1969, approxi-
miately one-quarter of the total population. Agriculture accounts for 55%
of enmployment, industry for 13% and construction and services for the ba-
lance. TI-ie continuous outflow from rural areas converts disguised under-
employment in agriculture into identifiable urban unemployment. Due to the
economic adversities of the 1960's and the government's "austerity law",
the creation of neiw jobs did not keep pace with the expansion of the urban
labor force. hlard core unemployment, petty jobs and underemployment are
common phenomena in the cities; the government's figure for unemploymeLnt
at 7.6% of the economically active population is probably an underestimate.
School enrollments in the fifties and sixties and the 1960 population census
suggest a low but improving educational background of the labor force.
2.02      The labor market is not well organized and widespread unemploy-
ment makes it a buyers' market, particularly for unskilled workers. More-
over, price stability has helped private employers and the government to
resist wage increase demands. Wages for unskilled labor, about $2 per
day, have not changed in the last four years; skilled workers and tech-
nicians lhave enjoyed modest wage increases. Qualified primary school
teachers receive modest but competitive salaries beginning at $1,625
per year, about five times the per capita income. Professional fees are
relatively high, while the shortage of managers has pushed salaries to
levels comparable with those in developed countries.
Manpower Requirements and Shortages - General
2.03      Since a comprehensive manpower survey is lacking, only scanty
manpower information is available. The draft Development Plan estimates
the new jobs to be created during the period 1970-74 to be 212,000 - about
50% in agriculture, 11% in industry and mines, and the rest in construction
and services. If this goal is realized, it will increase the 1969 employ-
ment level by 21% and reduce unemployment to 5.4% by 1974. Considering
the present underemployment in agriculture, however, the number of expected
new jobs in that sector appears an overestimate. At the end of the plan
period, services will remain the main sector of wage employment. In
general, during the plan years, employment is expected to increase more
slowly (4% p.a.) than national income (6.6% p.a.) as the economy becomes
more capital intensive.
2.04      During the next five years no substantial shortage of higher
level manpower is anticipated, except for experienced managers, adminis-
trators and qualified secondary school teachers. At the middle level,
the need for an estimated 5,000 technicians during the plan years is ex-
pected to be met by the output of the existing schools. The supply of qua-
lified primary teachers, however, will fall below needs. The role of the



-5-
education system in increasing the supply of high level managers is limited
because of the importance of experience in this field. The universities
of the country were not geared to provide the fast expanding secondary
education with qualified teachers in the 1960's; lack of a comprehensive
plan, together with administrative and organizational inefficiencies, still
keep the output of the faculties of education at unacceptably low levels.
The authorities recognize the magnitude of the problem and the need for
action in this area. The UNDP is considering the possibility of providing
technical assistance to help the country in formulating a secondary teacher
training plan.
Employment for Secondary School Leavers
2.05      In the past, almost all secondary school leavers could either en-
roll in post-secondary institutions or find jobs in the civil service where
general education is usually the only requirement. Since the number of
secondary school leavers has been increasing much faster than university
places and government service jobs, a greater number of them are now seek-
ing employment outside public administration in the sectors of production
and especially in private firms.
2.06      The graduate of the academic general secondary school is ill-
prepared for most of the jobs in the sectors of production, because he has
only basic general education. The service and industrial sectors, where
most secondary school leavers seek employment, are becoming more sophisticate
and expect applicants to have a pre-vocational background on which to build
experience and on-the-job training. To provide the economic system with
more trainable graduates, the secondary school curriculum should be revised
to include pre-vocational courses.
Teachers for Priniary Schools
2.07      Together with administrative and financial shortcomings, the ab-
sence of a comprehensive education plan to relate teacher training to proj-
ected primarv school enrollments is responsible for the present acute short-
age of qualifi ed primary school teachers. The output of the teacher training
colleges has remained almost constant despite a 33% increase in primary
school enrollmentt between 1965 and 1969. Teachers trained during the period
were less than one-fifth of the required number, but the colleges are still
operating below capacity. As a stop-gap measure, unqualified teachers have
been hired.
2.08      Even if the increase in primary school enrollments slows from
the 7.4% p.a. of the last four years to an annual rate of 3.J% in the
1970.s - a reasonable estimate if one considers the great number of over-
age pupils now in school - about 18,600 teachers will be required by 1980.
Withour allowing for desperately needed quality improvement and assuml).n,.,
thtal the capacity of the teacher training colleges will be fuiLly ut1fi  eZt..,
¢ :"or ~age of 7_100 teachers will develop by the end of the decad3e (Anr,n,x
I). To Improve the qitalitv of the teachers in service, the existing up -
grading Si4unmner courses 810ould continue and be expanded to cover all
qunlified teachers in the system.



-6-
Need for Structural Changes and Quality Improvement
2.09      As in many other developing countries which have experienced a
rapid increase in enrollments, the Dominican education system expanded
without reference to a long-term plan and in some cases without regard to
the real needs of the economy. The expansion followed traditional lines,
imbalances developed, and quality suffered as poor substitutes had to be
used to keep the system going. Secondary general education, expanding
faster than any other part of the system, is entirely academic with out-
dated curricula designed to prepare students for further education.
Vocational education is offered outside the public education system in
schools run by religious and business organizations, established in response
to needs identified on an ad hoc basis. It has changed little in recent
years and should be incorporated in a comprehensive development plan for
the education system. Teacher training has not been given the attention it
deserves (para 2.07), and the quality of education has suffered as a result.
2.10      The education reform now under implementation deals only with
secondary general education and primary teacher training. Progressive
elements in the country recognize that the reform should be extended to
include and correlate vocational education, secondary teacher training
and higher education with the rest of the system into a long-range
comprehensive plan for educational development closely related to the
real needs of the socio-economic system.  The government has provided
assurances that within a year of the credit agreement signing, it will
initiate the drafting of such a plan to be completed in about two years.
Education Finance
2.11      Financial responsibility for education rests primarily with the
central government. In public schools, primary education is free and only
nominal fees are charged in secondary and higher education. Religious
orders and business groups are also active in education, and foreign aid
has provided about $0.7 million annually during the past four years.
Semi-official schools and private universities receive substantial govern-
ment subsidies. The recently established Foundation for Educational Credit,
an autonomous organization, provides loans to post-secondary students repay-
able over a ten-year period at 4% interest.
2.12      During the years following the 1965 upheaval, public expenditure
on education increased slowly, but in pace with government revenue and
national income. In compliance with the national austerity program, re-
current expenditures on education were almost frozen until 1968 as were
other government outlays (Annexes 2, 3); the share of public funds devoted
to education remained until this year almost constant at the reasonable
level of about 16%. Public funds for education increased considerably
in 1969, and the 1970 budget indicates that education is among the first



- 7 -
priorities of the government - total government expenditure is expected
to increase by 5.2%, but appropriations for education are 17.2% higher
than in the previous year. Including estimated fees paid in private
institutions ($9.7 million), the country spent about 3.7% of its GNP on
education in 1969; this ratio is expected to increase to 4% in 1970, a
reasonable figure for the present stage of development of the Dominican
Republic.
2.13      The bulk of public expenditure on education passes through the
Ministry of Education's budget which has increased from $25.9 million in
1966 to $40.4 million in 1970. Other government agencies, such as the
Office of the President, the Ministries of Health, Labor, and Agriculture
also provide funds for education. School construction has been almost en-
tirely financed by the Office of the President. During the years 1966-69,
public capital expenditure on education averaged $2.3 million per year,
a reasonable 4.5% of total government investment. It was spent almost
entirely on building construction and very little on equipment and fur-
niture. The private sector has invested considerable amounts in school
buildings and equipment and is expected to spend more in the coming years.
2.14      The distribution of recurrent public expenditure on education
with respect to different levels is given in Annex 3. As in many other
countries at the stage of educational development of the Dominican Republic,
in the last four years almost half of total current expenditure was absorbed
by primary education, with university (17%) and secondary (14%) education
coming next. Teachers' salaries account for most of recurrent expenditure.
Almost all additional expenditure was devoted to financing expansion of
enrollment rather than quality improvement. Passing through a recovery
period and lacking both an economic and an educational plan, the govern-
ment has been allocating funds to education on a year-to-year basis. Its
education financial policy has been determined by short-term considerations
and aimed at satisfying social and political demands for enrollment expan-
sion without due regard to long-term requirements such as teacher needs.
2.15      It is es,timated that by 1974, recurrent public expenditure on edu-
cation will iacrease to $48 million, corresponding to an average annual rate
of 9.3% per ainum from 1969 onwards, i.e., a rate slightly higher than that
projected for government revenue (7.8%) and twice as high as the rate for
total enrollment (4.6%).  For the same year, the draft of the First Plan
foresees $6 million capital expenditure, which would bring total puhitic
expenditure on education to $54 million or 17.5% of government revomnk,e -
a reasonable, attainable goal. Lower general and upper diversified s2cond-
ary education will be relatively emphasized.



-8-
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01      The proposed project would finance:  (i) construction and equip-
ment for new and existing institutions as listed below; (ii) technical
assistance for the project schools and the establishment of a development
planning group; and (iii) the operating expenses of a unit to administer
the project. The objectives of the project are to assist in the imple-
mentation of secondary education reform, to improve the quality of educa-
tional programs and to meet urgent teacher needs. In accordance with the
decentralization policy of the government, 14 of the 17 project schools
would be located at appropriate sites in the provinces.
Accommodations
Enrollment       (additional)
Number of                                Staff
Institu-    Addi-              Student  Housing
vype of Institution*           tions        tional   Total   Boarding Units
Lower Secondary Schools
(Ciclo Basico)
-New                          3         2,520    2,520         -       -
- Existing (equipment only) 3             -       2,840         i      -
Multilateral Secondary Schools
(Ciclo Superior)
- New                         6         4,560    4,560         -
Teacher Training Colleges
(Escuelas Normales)
- New**                       2            800      800       250       5
- Extensions                  3           550    1,200         90       7
Total                  17         8,430   11,920        340     12
*    Additional information in Annex 4.
**   Of which one would replace a small (110 enrollment) college.
3.02      Lower Secondary Schools (Ciclo Basico).  The project would
establish three new lower secondary schools and provide equipment for three
existing ones (grades 7 to 9 or 10). The new schools would be located in
Santo Domingo, Barahona, and Bonao; the three existing are in Santiago, La
Romana and Puerto Plata, all fast growing cities. The three new schools and
the one in La Romana would enroll 840 students each; each of the other two
existing schools would accommodate 1,000 students. All schools would be
co-educational.
3.03      In accordance with recent education reform measures, the curriculum
of these schools would emphasize the study of natural and social sciences and



mathematics, and would introduce pre-vocational subjects, while providing
a sound basis of general education. The course would include a continuous
guidance service. At the end of the third year (grade 9) those who opt for
practical programs will be transferred to multilateral schools; those fol-
lowing academic courses will stay in the lower cycle schools for one more
year (grade 10). The schools would serve as feeders to the project multi-
lateral schools and would be prototypes of the reformed lower secondary
cycle.
3.04      Multilateral Secondary Schools (Ciclo Superior).  The project
would provide six new multilateral upper secondary schools (grades 10 or 11
to 12) to be located in the same cities as the project lower secondary schools
(para. 3.02); the catchment area of each school would extend well beyond the
city limits. All schools would be co-educational with an enrollment of 760
each. They would be fed by the project schools in the same towns and other
lower secondary schools in the region. Consistent with the reform proposals,
they would be model schools with strong pre-vocational orientation; the
practical subjects included in the curriculum would prepare readily employ-
able graduates.
3.05      Each school would have five practical streams of 120 students
each - two industrial, two commercial and one home economics/nursing - and
two academic streams of 80 students each. The practical streams would be
a three-year course starting at grade 10 and would account for 79% of total
school enrollment. About 70% of the students' time would be allocated to
practical subjects and the rest to a common general education program. The
academic streams would comprise a two-year course beginning at grade 11,
with a new common program supplemented by electives. The schools would
have guidance counsellors to advise students on their choice of programs.
3.06      The project schools would require 40 teachers of industrial subjects
who would be trained as teachers in an ad hoc one-year program to be
organized by a faculty of education and coordinated by a specialist provided
under technical assistance. The government has provided assurances that
this course, satisfactory to the Association, would start by September 1972.
3.07      Primary_Teacher Training Colleges (Escuelasjormalesj.  To assist
in meeting the needs for qualified primary teachers (para. 2.08) the project
wonuld estAblish a new training college in San Juan de la Maguana, relocate
and expand the one in Santo Domingo and expand the colleges in San Cristobal,
San Pedro de Macoris, and Licey a! Medio. All colleges would be co->
ediicational.  When completed, each college would enroll 400 students in a
two-year course (grades 11-12) and would graduate about 190 new teachers
annually, a combined total of 950 compared to the system's total annual
output of 160 at present.  From 1975, when the project colleges would be
in full operation, they would satisfy about 85% of the annual needs for
primary teachers.  They would also offer upgrading suimmer courses to akou._
800 in-service teachers annually.
3.08      The colleges to be expanded are well distribuited over the cou;-
tie proposed new institution at San Juan wotuld serve the western provinees
which do not have a college.  Housing shortages and the regional cha cer



- to -
of the colleges require the provision of boarding accommodations for the
institutions located in the provinces - 340 additional places in total.
Boarding would not be provided in Santo Domingo. To ensure full utilization
of the existing colleges' capacity, the government has provided assurances
that the number of scholarships for teachers colleges would increase to 600
for boarders and 300 for day students by 1971/72, and to 900 and 800 respec-
tively by 1973/74.
3.09      Technical Assistance (Appendix II).  To draft a comprehensive
long-term educational plan and improve the efficiency of its educational
instittutions, the country will benefit by drawing on international expe-
rience. To this end, the project would include the cost of 13 man-years
of specialists' services and 8 man-years of fellowship training abroad. A
three-man development planning group would assist the government to formu-
late its strategy on such issues as education objectives, enrollment
targets, structure of the system, central administration, and economic and
financial problems. Another seven specialists would help the project
secondary schools and teacher colleges to introduce the new curriculum.
Eight Dominicans assigned to the project schools would take one year train-
ing abroad in technical education and teacher training. The government has
agreed to assign suitable counterparts to all foreign specialists, and has
agreed to the implementation program described in Appendix II.
Cost of the Proiect
3.10      The estimated costs and foreign exchange component of the various
parts of the project would be as follows:
Millions of US$ and
R.D. Pesos
Local   Foreign      Total  % of Total
1.  Lower Secondary Schools               0.77     0.80        1.57       19%
2.  Multilateral Secondary Schools        1.67      1.58       3.25       40%
3.  Teacher Training Colleges             0.87     0.82        1.69       21%
4.  Technical Assistance                  0.10      0.30       0.40        5%
5.  Project Administration                0.11      0.03       0.14        2%
6.  Contingencies                         0.59      0.51       1.10       13%
Total                     4.11      4.04        8.15     100%



- 11 -
3.11      The distribution of costs by category of expenditure is summarized
below:
Millions of US$ and
R.D. Pesos
Local   Foreign   Total  % of Total
1. Construction
Academic and Communal Facilities   2.24        1.26    3.50        43%
Boarding Facilities                  0.08      0.05    0.13          1%
Staff Housing                        0.05      0.03    0.08         1%
Site Development                     0.34      0.20    0.54         7%
Professional Services                0.22      0.05    0.27          3
Sub-Total                       2.93      1.59    4.52        55%
2.  Furniture                             0.22      0.22    0.44          6%
3.  Equipment                             0.16      1.39    1.55         19%
4.  Technical Assistance                   0.10     0.30    0.40          5%
5.  Project Administration                0.11      0.03    0.14          2%
6.  Contingencies                         0.59      0.51    1.10         13%
Total                           4.11      4.04    8.15       100%
3.12      The foreign exchange component of US$4.0 million equivalent,
representing 50% of estimated total project costs, has been calculated as
follows:  (1) building and site development 36%, (ii) furniture 50%, (iii)
equipment 90%, (iv) technical assistance 75%, and (v) professional services
and project administration 20%.
3.13      Construction cost estimates are based on unit building costs
that range from $56 to $85 per mz derived from recent contracts, plus 15%
of building cost for site development. Furniture and equipment costs were
estimated by the government with assistance from Unesco, and were reviewed
by the Association; they are appropriate for these types of schools. The
project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen factors --
such as extra soil tests and earth moving, and alternative designs and
specifications -- equal to: 10% of estimated costs for buildings, site
development and professional fees, and 5% for furniture, equipment, tech-
nical assistance and project administration. Present unit costs art' ex-
pected to increase as in recent years, and therefore an additionaL 8J
contingency (based on a 3% annual rate) has been included for civil works,
furniture, equtipment and professional services (Annex 5). All contingencies
amount to 13.5% of the estimated total project cost (7.0% for unforeseen
factors, 6.5% for price increase).
3, 14     The schedules of accommodation with a use factor varying fronm  f.>
to 88% (Annex 4) are economical.  Estimated costs per place for the ioew
pro'lect schools (Annex 6) are reasonable, and fall within the range of
student place costs of similar institutions financed by the bank Group in
Latin America.



- 12 -
3.15      Annual recurrent cost of the project schools is estimated at about
US$2.1 million. With the expected growth of national income and government
revenue, the Dominican Republic would be able to meet this expenditure with-
out compromising other high priority needs, either in education or in other
government activities. The country would also be able to provide its share
of the capital cost of the project without adversely affecting other public
investment.



- 13 -
IV.  INPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
4.01      Administration-Project Unit.  A special unit directly responsible
to the Minister of Education, is being established to provide overall super-
vision of the project and liaison with the Association. A project director
and an architect, both acceptable to the Association, would be appointed
on a full-time basis to the project unit. Their appointment would be a
condition of signing the Credit Agreement. The government has given assur-
ances that the project unit would be provided with adequate supporting staff,
including a full-time accountant, and other facilities. The salaries of the
project unit personnel and the operational expenditures of the unit are
included within the total project cost.
4.02      Professional Services.  For the design and supervision of con-
struction of the project schools, the Ministry of Education has agreed to
employ the services of consulting architectural firms approved by the
Association and on terms and conditionis satisfactory to the Association.
4.03      Land.  Of the 17 project schools, five are existing schools to
be equipped or expanded on their own sites.  Another site on which a
teaciher training college would be expanded has been selected but not yet
acquired. The remaining 11 sites have been selected and descriptions of
these sites hlave been subnratted to the Association for final approval.
The government has provided assurances that it would obtain access to all
sites for the consultant architects as required and that it would have title
to all sites prior to beginning of construction.
4.04      Procurement.  The buildings would be constructed by private con-
struction firms. Contracts for civii works and procurement of materials,
furniture and equipment would conform to the Bank/IDA guidelines on inter-
national competitive bidding. The project is not likely, however, to at-
tract foreign building contractors or furniture suppliers.  Bid packages
would be of a size to permit bulk procurement. Domestic manufacturers of
furniture woul(1 bo accorded a preferential margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f.
costs oc compe.ing imports or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower.
4.05      DisDursements.  The Association would disburse or reinburse: vi)
35,' ;,f total e4-)c:nditures for .ivil- works and services of consultant
aci;CLct  and engiLneers; (ii) the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment and
hook6; (iif) 50% of thle cost of furniture; and (iv) the foreign excat..&e
cost of -ecknical assistance.  The percentages disbursed against civi-L
work;s, professional services, and furniture would be adjusted, if neces-
sary. to disitrlbute disbursements over the project period (Chart 5).



- 14 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During the credit negotiations, the government provided assurances
that:
(a)  Within one year of the credit agreement signing it would
initiate the drafting of a long-term comprehensive
plan for the education system which would be completed in
about two years (para. 2.10).
(b)  By September 1972 it would initiate in one of the faculties
of education a one-year program, agreeable to the Association,
to train 40 industrial subject teachers for the project
schools (para. 3.06).
(c)  The number of scholarships for primary teacher colleges would
be increased to 600 for boarders and 300 for day students by
the academic year 1971/72 and to 900 and 800 respectively by
1973/74 (para. 3.08).
5.02      A condition of signing the Credit Agreement would be the appoint-
ment to the project unit on a full-time basis of a project director and an
architect, both acceptable to the Association (para. 4.01).
5.03      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$4.0 million to the
Government of the Dominican Republic, equivalent to 50% of the estimated
total project cost and 100% of the estimated foreign exchange cost.



APPENDIX I
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Administration
1.        Education in the Dominican Republic is highly centralized.  The
Secretariat of Education administers all public and aided schools and is
responsible for the formulation of policy and the initiation of legislation,
the appointment of teachers, the approval of curricula, syllabi and text-
books, and for terminal examinations. Private schools retain the right to
appoint staff but are required to conform with the public system in respect
to curricula, syllabi and examinations. A few vocational schools and train-
ing centers are administered by other Ministries such as Health, Social
Security, Labor, Agriculture and Defense. The universities receive finan-
cial support from the government but are autonomous. The National Council
for Education with wide representation from the educational system, other
ministries, the teaching profession and the public, is the highest organ
of educational policy and is headed by the President of the Republic.
Structure of Education
2.        The education system is presently in the process of transition.
The six year primary course beginning at the age of seven will remain un-
changed, but the secondary system is changing from a two year lower and a
four year upper cycle to a four year common course followed by a two year
diversified cycle. Post-secondary education is given in three universities
and in about ten other institutions.
3.        These changes, the first of a series intended to cover all levels
of education, reflect the government's awareness that the earlier system
failed to provide for the country's needs. At primary and secondary levels,
there has been an undue emphasis on theoretical, academic education; only
3% of secondary school students are enrolled in vocational courses. In
addition, the enrollment in primary teacher training colleges is inadequate
to meet the needs of the system.
Educational Reform and the New Structure
4.        The Government of the Dominican Republic, conscious of the need
to overhaul the educational system, published in 1968 its "'Platafor.:Ma para
el Desarrollo Economico y Social de la Republica Dominicana" (Bases for the
Economic & Social Development of the Dominican Republic). Briefly, Lhe
Plataforma envisaged three phases of educational development: (i) 1968-70,
expansion of primary education, accelerating the output of qualif led primary
teachers, a major in-service training program for unqualifled teachers and
a functional literacy program for adults; a reformulation of the aims of
seconeiry and higher education to meet the needs for skilled techniciaxi
in industry and commerce, and a fellowship program for overseas trainling
of Dcwwinican technicians and planners.  (ii) 1971--85, reorganization. of
the Secretariat of Education and implementation of educational reform of



all levels: 90% enrollment at the relevant age group in primary education;
appointment of 900 new primary teachers annually and an increase of the
teachers' college output to 700 per year; construction of 300 new classrooms
per year; in-service training programs for 70% of the unqualified primary
teachers; diversification of secondary education and upgrading programs for
in-service secondary teachers. (iii) 1986-onwards, 100% enrollment of
corresponding age group in primary education; an extensive program of school
construction and provision of equipment; upgrading 70% of the primary schools
into complete, six grades schools; reduction of the adult illiteracy rate to
20%; reduction of school drop-out and non-attendance; and expansion of
adult cultural and vocational programs. The progress and impact of these
proposals are dealt with in the following sections.
Primary Education
5.        Primary education is free in public schools and is compulsory
between the ages of 7-14 or until completion of the primary cycle. No
attenpt is made to enforce this regulation and only 80.2% of the relevant
age population is enrolled. In the last four years, enrollment increased
by 7.4% p.a. to reach 686,472 pupils (37% in urban schools, 63% in rural)
in 1968/69. The enrollment is equally distributed between boys and girls;
with only 12,340 teachers in service, the pupil-teacher ratio is a high
56:1. Private and aided schools account for about 8.6% of total enrollment.
6.        Standards are low, especially in the rural areas where the schools
are incomplete; only 17% of them have all six grades and 57% offer only the
first three grades or less. Drop-out and repetition rates are high. Teach-
ers are poorly trained; almost half of the teachers in service have had an
education to grade 8 or less, and fewer than one-fifth have had teacher train-
ing. The government is taking steps to improve this situation by an expansion
of primary teacher training and through programs of in-service teacher training
and curriculum reform. Apart from better provision of buildings and teach-
ing materials, the solution to the quality problem lies in an expanded and
better-trained corps of primary teachers.
Secondary Education
7.        The basic data for 1968-69 are as follows:
Enrollment         Number     Student/   Boy/
Enroll-   as a % of            of        Teacher    Girl
ment      13-18 age group   Teachers    Ratio        Ratio
General Secondary
- Urban            80,663)
)       16.4            3,350       26.2      50:50
- Rural             7,187)
Vocational            2,950          0.5              158      18.7       60:40
Teacher Training        530          0.1               46      11.5       23:77
Total             91,330         17.0



Between 1964/65 and 1968/69 secondary enrollments rose 14.7Z/ annu.ally.  About
76% of primary school leavers enter secondary education and only half of them
complete the course. Private and aided schools enroll about 27% of secondary
students; they charge relatively high fees while secondary education in pub-
lic schools is virtually free. There is an acute shortage of physical facili-
ties in lower cycle schools, which for the most part use the facilities of
the local primrary school.  Rural children nave far froni equal educationlal
opportunity; only 17% of lower secondary enrollment, and none of the upper,
is in rural areas.
8.        Secondary education under the old system consisted of a two year
common basic cycle, followed by a four year upper cycle. Conceived as a
preparation for university entrance but staffed by teachers 60% of whom were
unqualified, with inadequate laboratories, practical rooms and modern equip-
ment, it resorted to traditional rote-learniing and memorization techniques.
Under the reform, secondary education will provide a four year basic course,
with euyj,p.-asis upon mathematics and science, introduction to practical
subjects and with a consistent program of guidance. This will be followed
in multilateral schools by a two year course in either academic, technical,
commercial or home economics/nursing tracks. A common core will ensure
thie continued general education of all students within each elective stream.
9.        A curriculum development group is re-writing syllabi and providing
guides for teachers, and it is anticipated that these will be completed by
1971. As an interim measure, to avoid the heavy costs involved in duplicating
expensive equipment in lower and upper cycle schools, the government proposes
to transfer studenrs opting for practical courses from the lower to the upper
cycle at the end of the third year (Grade 9). National examinations would
be held at the end of the lower cycle and a Certificate of Secondary Studies
would qualify the student for admission to upper cycle courses.  At the end
of the upper cycle, a further state examination would be held for a High
School Diploma with accreditation in academic or technical studies which
would cqualify stuC'ents for higher education.
Prfim-ry '    m r Training
Lo.       Teaclier tra-ining has lagged far behind the expanisiotu of primnary
enrollment:; and an acute shortage of qualified teachers is now apparent.
Th"r  five primary teacher colleges, withi an annual output of aboxkt. 1(60 are
uuk1ec--ltLlized, due in part to the poor quality of secondary sclo.OJ ,jraduates
but .nainiy because of inadequate government bursarles.  Even at fuil capa-
city, howe-ver, these schools would be unable to meet the demand for primary
teachers. Under the old system, primary school teacher training was a three
yetar course (grades 10-12).  It was heavily academic and theoretical irL
content, with little relevance to the capabilities of the students or the
teachin,,; programs for which they were being prepared.



-4-
11.       The education reform has reorganized primary teacher training as
a two-year (grades 11 and 12) course and has introduced a new curriculum
which provides a better balance between general education, professional
training and teaching practice.
Secondary Teacher Training
12.       Secondary school teachers are trained in the three universities in
courses which vary from three and a half to five years in duration; a few
teachers of practical subjects are also trained in post-secondary courses
at three institutes. In 1968/69 about 145 teachers graduated, compared with
an annual need for approximately 700 teachers to meet enrollment targets in
secondary schools. There is also an urgent need for programs for practical
subject teachers. To meet these needs, the training system should be unified
and coordinated, and to this end the Dominican authorities have requested
technical assistance from UNDP.
Vocational Education
13.       Vocational education is for the most part the product of private
foundations, international agencies, and religious orders. Their efforts,
with government cooperation, have resulted in the establishment of insti-
tutions which have been fairly effective in producing trained manpower for
agriculture, industry, business and other sectors of the economy. Notable
weaknesses are the lack of coordination of the many institutions and
organizations involved, the failure of the public education system to
provide pre-vocational training at the secondary level and the absence
of training programs for teachers in technical education.
14.       Agricultural Education.  Some attempt has been made to emphasize
the importance of agriculture through the introduction of agriculture
subjects at primary level on an experimental basis in some 20 rural
primary schools. Four institutions at secondary level provide agricul-
tural programs which enroll about 750 students. The courses combine
general education, theoretical and practical agriculture, and management
programs. The workshops are well equipped, the practice farm adequate,
and the programs are administered and taught by competent staff.
15.       Business Education programs are offered by some 80 private schools
of widely varying quality. In addition, a complete commercial program is
offered by two secondary commercial schools. Two institutions known as
Instituto Politecnico Femenino offer business programs at secondary and
somewhat higher levels, and the Instituto de Estudios Superiores of Santo
Domingo is developing excellent post-secondary programs in business fields.
Of particular interest is the program for teachers of commercial subjects,
planned to start in 1970 in the latter institution.
16.       Industrial Education is offered in the Instituto Politecnico
Loyola at San Cristobal, the Escuela Salesiana de Artes y Oficios in Santo
Domingo, both run by religious orders, and in the public Escuela Nacional



-5-
de Artes y Oficios in Santo Domingo. All offer a variety of courses at the
secondary level, and with particular respect to the first two institutions
are well equipped, staffed and administered. The Universidad Catolica
Madre y Maestra has recently started an industrial education program at
the secondary level.
17.       Three experimental Comprehensive Secondary Schools were developed
in 1967 with broadened curricula including industrial, commercial, home
economics, and primary teacher training programs. Despite substantial
inputs of technical assistance to provide trained staff, the practical
programs in these schools are inadequately staffed and have insufficient
funds for operating expenses. Supervision is almost entirely of an admin-
istrative type, and has had little impact upon the quality of instruction.
18.       In addition to programs of institutions operated by the Secretariat
for Education and the religious orders, industrial training is provided by
the accelerated training centers of the Department of Labor. At the present
time, training is limited to sporadic courses at the Santo Domingo center
while the center at Bani has been turned over to the Army.
19.       Home Economics Education.  Two well-run institutions, the
Politecnicos Femeninos, offer to girls a broad spectrum of courses ranging
from primary schooling to academic and technical courses at secondary and
post secondary levels. The schools, administered by a religious order, are
well equipped and staffed. A one-year course of training for prospective
teachers of home economics is of significance to any program of expansion
of practical subjects in the secondary school system. I.E.S. (para 15)
proposes to offer courses for the training of home economics and nursing
teachers in 1970.
Higher Education
20.       Post-secondary courses are offered in three universities, one
public, two private, and about ten private and semi-official institutions.
The public university in Santo Domingo is a complete institution while the
two private ones have a small number of faculties; these are expand-
ing, however, and intend to develop into complete universities. The
remaining post-secondary institutions offer one to two year vocational
courses. Of particular interest within the context of this report are
provisions for the training of secondary teachers. All three faculties of
education at the universities provide degree programs in education of
varying duration and content. The private university in Santo Domingo
emphasizes upgrading courses for in-service teachers (enrollment 1,300)
while the other private university in Santiago provides programs mainly for
educational administrators and guidance personnel (enrollment 340). None
of the three faculties has a special program for practical subject teachers.






APPENDIX II
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        Following the trend prevailing in most of the developing countries,
the entire education system of the Dominican Republic expanded rapidly in
the 1960's. In the absence of a long-range comprehensive plan, the education
system developed only in terms of enrollments and in most cases independently
from the social and economic needs. The recently introduced reform measures
should be extended to cover all parts of the education system and should be
linked together within a comprehensive education plan. Within the frame-
work of such a plan, further steps should be taken to improve the internal
efficiency of the system at the institution level. To these ends, the
proposed project would include the cost of 13 man-years of specialists'
services and eight man-years of fellowship-overseas training of Dominicans.
Total cost is estimated at US$403,000 ($355,000 for specialists, $48,000
for fellows); the implementation period is about four years.
2.        The proposed technical assistance program would consist of the
following specialists and fellows (numbers in parenthesis show man-years):
I.   Specialist Services (13)
(a) Development Planning Group (5). An education planner, chief
of the group (2); an educational economist (1.5); an educa-
tion administration specialist (1.5).
(b) Multilateral Secondary Schools (6.5). A school administra-
tion specialist, chief of the group (1.5); an industrial
(mechanical) education specialist (1); an industrial
(electrical) education specialist (1); a business education
specialist (1); a specialist in home economics education (l);
an industrial teacher training specialist (1).
(c)  Teacher Training Colleges (1.5).  A specialist in primary
teacher training (1.5).
II.   Fellowship for Overseas Studies (8)
(i) Six vice-principals (technical) of the project multilateral
schools (6).
(ii) Two principals of the new project training colleges (2).
3.        The Development Planning Group would work in the Ministry of
Education and in close cooperation with its Planning Office. It would
operate on the macro-level and assist the Ministry to draft a long-term
plan for the entire educational system, with particular emphasis on the
objectives of the system, its structure and the means to achieve the set
goals. The activities of this group would be coordinated by the education
planner and the task of preparing the plan would be completed not later



- li -
than three years after the date of the Development Credit Agreement.
4.        The specialists for the project multilateral schools would assist
the teaching and administrative staff to introduce the new curriculum and
particularly the practical subjects in these schools. In addition, the
industrial teacher training specialist would coordinate an ad hoc program
for industrial subject teachers. These experts would operate at the insti-
tution level under the supervision of the Ministry of Education. The
school administration specialist would coordinate the activities of the
experts in this group.
5.        The specialist in primary teacher training would function on both,
the ministry and institution level; he would be responsible to the relevant
department of the Ministry of Education. This expert would assist the
teacher colleges to introduce the new curriculum and would advise the
Ministry of Education on teacher training matters.
6.        Six Dominicans designated as vice-principals for technical subjects
in the project multilateral schools would receive one year of overseas
training in these subjects. Upon their return, and with assistance from
the foreign specialists, they would help the practical subject teachers to
implement the new curriculum in these schools. In the same way, two
designated principals for the two new teacher colleges would receive one-year
of training abroad in relevant subjects.
7.        Details of the implementation program were discussed and agreed
upon during the credit negotiations. The implementation time schedule
is shown in the following table.



Time Schedule for Technical Assistance Implementation
Year                  First      I    Second             Third            Fourth             Fifth
Implementation*  Quarter              1      3  4       1  2  3  4         2 2     4        1  2 3  4         1  2  34
Development Planning Group
Education Planner (Chief)                                 x  x       X  X   x  x  x  x
Educational Economist                                     X  X  X  X        X X
Education Admin. Specialist                               X  X  X  X        X X
Teacher Training Colleges
Teacher Training Specialist                                                                   X  X  X  X        X X
Multilateral Secondary Schools
School Adm. Specialist (Chief                                                                 X X  XX X  X
Industrial Educ. (Electrical) Spec.                                                                  X X        X X
Industrial Educ. (Mechanical) Spec.                                                                  XX         X X
Business Educ. Specialist                                                                            x  x ;       X
Home Economics Specialist                                                                    |x                 x x
Industrial Teacher Trng. Spec.                                                     XX         X x
Fellowships
Six Vice-Principals, Mult. Schools                                                 X X        X X
Two Teachers' College Principals                                                   X X        X X
* The implementation starts from credit agreement signing.
Each X covers the entire quarter to which it refers.
August 17, 1970






Of\ 4  <iPSRE.F7SlT,IC - Pr;nar; Scb   Finrolimnent, and Teacrier Needs
(students in 000's, teachers in units)
Total           Additional Teacher Needs For:
TLeach+er Pe-   Replace-                            Annual-  Annual        Cunulative
Bear vnrdllrment   gufr .nt.  ment    _   E.r,ansion    Total                __ty Shorte    Shortag7e
19 64/65        516.1
1965/66         557. 3
1966/67         5814.7
196,57/68       649.1
1963/69,        680.5       12,2140
1969/70         720         12,860          367           620         987       16o        827            830
1970/71         747         13,3140         386           480         866       350        516         1, 340
1971/72         775         13,8140         400           500         900       1140       760         2,,100
1972/73         804         14,360           415          520         935       44 85                 2,590
1973/74         83, 514,910 l431                          550         981       450        531         3,120
1974/75         867         15,148o         447           570       1,017       450        567          3,690
1975/76         900         16,070          464           590       1,054       450        6014         4,290
1976/77         934         16,680          482           61o       1,092        450       642          4, 930
1977/78         9s69        17,310          500           630       1,130       145        680         5,610
1978/79       1,0o6         17,960          519           650       1,169       450        719         6,330
1979/80       1,0414        18,,640         53°           680       1,219       450        769         7,100
1/  Figures for 1964/65- 1968/69 actual; 1969/70 estimate; 1970/71 - 1979/80 projections.
Projections are based on 3.8R annual increase in enrollment, student-teacher ratio 56,
and 3% p.a. teacher replacement needs.
* -t present enrollment and existing capacity.
Aa-st 17, 1970                                                                                                                <



DOMITNICAN REPJBLIC - Basic Economic Data*
(in million TJS dollars and RD pesos)
Annual
increase
1964      1965       1966      1967       1968      1969       1970       1966-69    1974*
GDP (at market current prices)    1,102.5    953.2    1,062.6   1,104.1   1,188.2   1,263.1                     5.9%      1,740
GDP (at 1962 market prices)           988.4    859.o       965.9     997.9   1,028.8   1,107.8                  4.7%
GNP (at market current prices)    1,083.7    941.2    1,044.2   1,084.4   1,169.2   1,248.0                     5.9%      1,720
GNP (at 1962 market prices)           989.3    842.1       953.3      978.5   1,022.1   1,089.5                 4.6%
Government Revenue                    186.2    116.9       161.1     173.5      189.4      213.4    230.2       9.8%        310
Government Expenditure: Total         214.1    149.2       194.3      201.5     208.3      235.3    247.6       6.6%
Current     185.5    140.1       157.0      153.9     158.1      174.9    179.3        3.7%
Capital      28.6       9.1        37.3      47.6       50.2      60.4      68.3     17.4%
Government Revenue as % of GTNP       17.2%    12.4%       15.4%      16.o%     16.2%      17.2%                          18%
Public Expenditure on Education
as a % of Gmrernment Revenue                               17.9%      16.6%     16.1%      16.9%    18.3%
Public Expenditure on Education
as a % of' Government Expenditure                          1h.8%      14.3%     14.6'    IL5.3%    17.1%
* 1964-68 actual; 1969 estimates; 1970 budget appropriations; 1974 projections at 1969 prices.
Source: Banco Central, Boletin Mensual, February 1970; First National Development Plan 1970-74 (draft),
and locally available data.
August 17, 1970



DOMINICA  REPUBLIC - Education Erenditures-
'in mi-llion US dollars and UD Desos)
Annual
increase
1966     1967     1968      1969     1970    1966-70         1M7h
M.!inistry of Education                   25.9      23.3     29.1     30.7      40.'4    11.7%          52
Primnary Education                      12.5     13.9      13.2    l1.n       16.4      7.1l          21
Secondary Education                      3.4      3.5       4.6      4.7       7.6     22.3%          12
Universities                             5.D      5.0       5.0      5.0      7.6      11.1%           9
Subsidies to Private Inst.               1.6      1,5       1.6      1.8       1.7      1.5d           2
Other Programs                           1.6      1.9       2.0      2.1       2.9     16.0%           3
Genieral Administration                  1.8      2.5       2.7      3.1       .2      23.6%           5
O1ther IublicAgencies                      2.9      0.5       1.3      5.3       1.8                     2
Total Public Exp. on Education            28.8     28.8      30.IL    36.0      42.2     10%            54
Recurrent                               27.8      27.6     28.8     30.8      39.3      9%            48
Capital                                  1.0      1.2       1.6      5.2       2.9     30%             6
:stimated Fees                                                        9.7
Total E. on Education                                                 45. 7
-1o960-63  ctual; 1,969 estimates; 1970 budget appropriations; 1974 projections at 1969 prices.
Sowrce:  Secretario Technico de la Presidencia, Resunen del Presupuesto, 1970
and locally available data.
August 17, 1970



DOT-TTA:,' T-EP1)-3Ll - Project School Details
Gross Area per
NJumber                      Dration                                  Student Place (m2)
of        Educational         of     Total                Pupil-    Academic
Tnsti-       Level           Colurse    Enroll-    Annual  t2eacher      and                 JtiliLation
Type of Institution    tutions        .^-rades'       (Years)   ment         0 Qut 0   atio CtoImwiual    Total    actor
Lower Secondary             6         7 - 9 or 10    3 or 4    5,360           -       30          5.0        5.02
'uhltllateral               6        10 cr 11 - 12   2 or 3    )t73'C        1,59C    2L           6.3        6.3         33>
General                   6              11 - 12      2          960450
Practical Courses         6              10 - 12      3        3,600       i,1k0
Teachei  Training           5              11 - 12      2        2,000         950    22           6.5      10.5
*As a percentage of max-mLm utilization.
August 17, 1970



DQMINIC AN REPUTJLIC - Conrthk, nc i   Allowances
(in thousand USS$ and R.D. Pesos)
Site                                                               Professional       Technical  i/
Develotx.3nt       BuIlding          Furniture         Eq,aipmrentt     Services         Assistance
Local  F~e~g  LTocal  Forei;'n  Local  Fore          Loca   LOri L         l  Fo        Local  FoeTotal
Allowance for -
Urforeseen Factors*       10%      10%      0iD       10%      5%     5%        5%       5%      10%       10%      5%       5%
Allowance for
Pr'ce Increases            8%       8%        8%       8%      8%      8%       8%       8%       8%        8%      _        _
Tota',.              18%     193       18%      18%     13%   1i3         13       13%     185f       18%     5%       5%
Total Cost before
Contingencies         3418.5   196.0   2,372.2 1,334.4 215.8   218.8   155.1  1,396.4  212.1   53.0    212.8   330.2   7,048.3
Contingencies:
- Unforeseen Factors   34.8    19.6         237.2   133.4  10.9    10.9        7.8      69.8   21.2    5.3        10,7    16.5       578.1
- Pricae -ncreaas        27.9    15.7       189.8   106.8  17.5    17.6    12.!i    111.7   17.0    4.2                 -      -    520.6
Total               62.7    35.3      427,0   20.2  28.!1    28.5    20.2    181,5   38.2    9.5             10.7    16.5   l,098.7*
Total Cost Including
-ontingencies         421,2   231.3   2,799.? 1s574.6 247.2   247.3   175.3  1577.9  250.3   62.5    223.5   346.7
..~~~~~~~~ J.                              t-.3  
1/ Incluling project.> ainistration.
-4  Such as extra soil tests &ad earth-moxing and alternative designs and specifications.
4Pk Total cc.itIage.ncie6 account for 13% of total project cost (7% for unforeseen factors, 6% for priee increases),
Augustv 17, 1970



-2)TT3LTC 7--   aital - it "asts in Iew 2ro 'c t Cnstitttions (s)
in .   and RD 7esos;
Sn te
JDeveloo-   Build-   Furni-   Equip-                  Similar 3ank Group
Category                                 :Tnit       ment                  Ture     ment      Total      Financed Institutions
1. fcademic     omnilnal FacUAties
3 tudent
Lower Secondary Schools               Place                    332                 83        i95       347 (Ecuador)
`52 (Trinidad)
Miultilateral Secondary Schools         "            3         t420       2       168 6                59 5!4 (Guatemala)
8 2 (Trinidad)
Teacher Training Colleges              6!            4                   4 3     169         15 '98 (licaragua)
(7 (Gayana)
2. 3oarding Bacilities
3oarding
Teacher Training Colleges             Place                    35        31        -        L52       712 (Guyana)
3. Staff Housing
Living
Teacher Training  Tolleges            Tnit         80?       5,325       _        -       6,l25    6,559 (Spain)
Ji) Professional fees and contingencies are not included.
August 17, 1970



ANNEX 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in thousands of US$ and RD Pesos)
Accumulated       Undisbursed
Quarter *     Disbursements      Disbursements      Balance
1                                                   4,000
2                                                   49000
3                 9                  9              3,991
4                  9                18              3,982
5                 9                 27              3,973
6               151                178              3,822
7               152                330              3,670
8               190                520              3,480
9               630              1,150              2,853
10               630              1,780              2,220
11               920              2,700              1,300
12               500              3,200                800
13               500              3,700                300
14                 68             3,768                232
15                68              3,836                164
16                52              3,888                112
17                52              3,940                 60
18                30              3,970                 30
19                 30             4,000                  0
* Beginning from credit agreement signing.
Souirce: Chart 5
August 17, 1970






DOMINICAN  REPUB LIC
ORGANIZATION OF THE
SECRETARIAT FOR EDUCATION, FINE ARTS AND RELIGION
NATIONALSERTY
COUNCIL FOR                                                SECRETARY
ED UCAT 10 N
r~~~
UNDER                                     PLANNING &                  FINE ARTS                 UNDER
SECRETARY                                 BDESSECRETARY
STAT ISTICS_        PLANS &       -
PROGRAMS
TECHNICAL                                                                                       ADMINISRATIVE
SERVICES                                                                                        SERVICES
INSTITUT  FOR     PHYSICAL                      TEACHER                                                        SCHOOL                     STUDENT
PEDAGOGICAL       EDUCATION                     TRAINING                                                       CONSTRUCTION               WELFARE
STUDIES
PRIMARY      SECONDARY  [TECHNICAL    AUTIES~F
EDUCATION    EDUCATION           IN    EUA  O
DUSTIAL  l~ES     HOME I   GIULTR
IBRD -5030






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 1969-1970
TYPE OF
EDUCATION
X 4  -      PRIMARY             *    LOWER SECONDARY-    C4-UPPER SECONDARY-04           - POST SECONDARY & UNIVERSITY         -
I  |_ _7_._            5     SPECIAL UNIVERSITY PROGRAMS
GENERAL                                                           r    ACAEMI         r
AND      3   4   5  6                  3  4                  5   6            1   2 423  NURSING, SOCIAL WORK
TEACHER                                                    PRIMARY TEACHER COLLEGES
TRAINING                                                                                  1  23_-4 EDUCATION AND GENERAL FACULTIES
4 is- Mutltra   i^6 3-                  [                MEDICINE
5i 6             1 HOME ECONOMICS TEACHER TRAINING -
WOMEN'S POLYTECHNIC
_ 2   3  4  AGRICULTURE
1  2   3  4  5 VETERINARY SCIENCE
AGRICDJIE             6            1 HIGHER AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTE
AGR IC ULTURE
5- 6[$}<-        12 LOYOLA POLYTECHNICAL INSTITUTE
ARICULTURE SCHOOL
AGRICUILiUERE SCHOO L 
I  1   2   3        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
BUSINESS                                                                               _      INSTITUTE FOR HIGHER STUDIES
5l  6            1-  ~ WOMEN'S POLYTECHNICS
1     i 2   3  4ENGINEERING
5       _ 6      1WOMEN'S POLYTECHNICS                          LEGEND
_5  6            1NATIONAL TRADE SCHOOL
,.PROJECT SCHOOLS
INDUSTRIAL                                                             5  6             1  LOYOLA POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE
AND                                      SALESIAN TRADE SCHOOL                                                                      0 EXAMINATIONS
OTHER                                        2                         5
VOCATIONAL                               TRADE TPINGCTE
GRADE      I  2   3  4   5  6              7   8  9   10                11 12            13  14  IS 16  17  18
AGE  6   7   8   9  10  11 12          13  14  15  16                17  18           19  20  21  22  23 24
IBRD - 5029






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
ENROLLMENT AND POPULATION PYRAMIDS* 1968-1969
EDUCATION
LEVEL - GRADES                                                                                                                                      ENROLLMENT
TOTALS
HIGHER                                                                                                                                           (BOTH SEXES)
5.5 %           2.8 %                                                                  12,2
4.1%
UPPER SECONDARY
12                                                                  8.3%       8.83%                                                                    16.4
ll l  | POPULATION  11.3%          113%         POPULATION                                                9.8%
LOWER SECONDARY
10                                                               15.8%I  . '16.4%
19.0% [50 20.0%                                                                          70
8                                                             20.2%     :21.4%                                                                            3
7                                                           24.0%      ^   ,          25.2 %
PRIMARY
6                                                       333 3% [            -;:. v137.7%
5                                                  43.3 %                                       49.1%
4                                         62.4%                                                          68.7%                                         686.4
103.2%I
3                                   95.1%                                                                       100.0%
2                 | 0124.5%                  -      :ENROLENT                       NROLLMENT                                126.3/
1   231.8%                                                                                                                          284
70     60      50      40      30     20      10      0       10      20     30      40      50      60      70
BOYS                     (IN THOUSANDS)                      GIRLS
PERCENTAGES SHOW THE ENROLLMENT / AGE GROUP RATIO.
IBRD - 5028






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ENROLLMENTS
26% OF
1300                                                           _13 -  18
6300      |  
AGE GROUP,E
1200
1100                                                                                   01St| 
SECONDARY
100017                    F
900
^    ACTU AGE GROUOJPTD                                                          
IBR - 12 3
0
<800AGGR
0
J700
z
600
500
400               AEGOJ
300
200
100
1964/65  65/66   66/67   67/68  68/69  69/70   70/71  71/72  72/73  73/74  74/75  75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80
-~------ACTUAL  -                                           PROJECTED 
IBRD - 5031






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC -PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(IN THOUSANDS OF US $ AND RD PESOS)
YEAR                                                2                          3                         4                   5
IMPLEMENTATION*    QUARTER                 1   2    1       4      5      6     7         8  9      10          7 512   13    14    15   116    17   1 8
SURVEY AND PREPARATION                                                                                        7,537                     8,060        8,1747
OF SITES .                           ---                I
ADMINISTRATION AND                                      I    I
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.________
PROGRAMMING AND
ARCHITECTS BRIEF.
PRELIMINARY                                   __ 
DESIGN.                    l                                                  |                            CUMULATIVE TOTAL COST
DESIGN DEVELOPMENT.
PREPARATION OF FURNITURE                                                                       4                                         ,81400
AND EQUIPMENT LISTS.                                                                         4f3,738
WORKING DRAWINGS AND                                                                                               I
CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS .2
URNI UR  N  EUPEN CUMULATIVE FOREIGN  EXCHANGt COST
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT                                                               4
BID DOCUMENTS.                                                                      4
TENDER AND AWARD
CONTRACT.
CONSTRUCTION, FURNISHING                                                                    1,166
AND EQUIPPING. 
DEFECTS AND LIABILITY                                                                                        -        - |                -
PERIOD.                                                    13612#
TOTAL COST:                 8,147.5    0    45.4 1 45 4   45.4  424.91424.81495.1 I1273,9 1,273.9 1,627.8 937 0 937.0 156.8  156 9  107.7 107.7  43 9  43.9
FOREIGN EXCHANGE:          4,040.4    0    9.0   9 0   9.2  1 i56 6 1564 1191 7 634,4 634.3  924.3 506 4 506.7 68.2  68 1  52.6  52.7  30.4  30.4 |
LOCAL CURRENCY:             4,107.1   0    36.41 36 4  36.2 1268 31268 41303 41639 5 639.6 703.5 430.6 430 3 88.6  88 8  551 55.0  13.5  13.5    >
* IMPLEMENTATION STARTS FROM CREDIT AGREEMENT SIGNING.
IBRD - 5040 (2R)






-  7lr  6o-                           DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                    O
lnternotionol boundaries         POPULATION                      PROJECT SCHOOLS
---Provinciol boundaries                     600,000 persons    Lower Secondary_ Shools
Monte Clisti                                                                                                     0   National capital           A      NUNew:
MonteGsto Po                                    *   Provincial capitals                                           Santo Domingo
*  Town                                                           Barohonra
15TI                                             '; * > -\Z V-Main roaods                                                              00,000 persons        Boaom
~ Resgun nrOE *         A- *                                         -.7Railwaoys                                                    [ 3Equipment ankd fwniture:
*  ---Rivers                                    20,00p.son             Santiago
'One dot e_uals 2,000 p               La Rorana
e   7                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Puerto Plato
- s5\*    BE5PA /Z A                                                                                           Multilateral pper Seconcdary Schools
DNjabon                                                                                    MA. Ra-   -  *- avd  )  .  . .                                                 N-F7A.A/ani  a  O*w
~~Wey al Meldi~~~~~~~~~'~~~.  TRINIDAD- ~~~~~~~Santo Domingo
~SD)IJAE~O/'h  Santiagod RadriguANezH                                                                                                                                  SantIago
>   dz   \_            f BQrshono                                   tS              S      .'t \~~~~~~~mti  f                                                                    aRoan
S A N.T/,4 G0                 *SarTranciscodeMacarls ~~~~~~Ngua,Barahona
Restgvrocoo                                ..l..           ..              .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  I-                  j                                Puerto Plato
X~~~~~6N I        "N                           l   n. .soza~~
%                                                     A M*A NA BAmR.AgHONA,_UhlTEO STt4                   iaM
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o JuCriaeaneaJ    G 
San~~~~~r~~tdSqI  DOMINGO  *         p~~~~~~~~~~~fr     La I ~        Sato omanag
H   grt                                                                                                                                                 _ L Exg.fXres ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Exesin
t   Oviedo /               a,       Ip       2,a      3p      49       so       6p              . l                  tLs>i    Caribbeete Ste                 '^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on edr deMocri
?                                                                                 KtLOAETERU LI                                                            CSTt S
72'   f\Z  7>1'                                                 70'                                                         Pacific Ocerz      i^<COLOMBIt '-n          r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ffnf,  O#a
JUff of70                          1Dic   301
Coariben    eaMEIcri
14ZUA                    NA                                                                         e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* eSIA
A'OR Uc                                                                                                                                 AZTIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILSCLnty w  CIAU
A             rIlA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aii   can                                                                M   OORA-
IND F                            h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6D31
JUNE1970~ ~~ls                   AUNTE  TAE



