CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 235 DO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 18, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 235 DO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 18, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated  February  18,   1971, between    DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of
Section 5.01 thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Unit" means the project unit referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Development Credit Agreement;
(b)   "Ciclo Bdsico " means the first four years of secondary education, as
provided in Ordenanza No. 1/70 of the Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n
of the Borrower, dated October 16, 1970;
(c) "Ciclo Superior " means the lasL two years of secondary education,
as provided in Ordenanza No. 1/70 of the Consejo Nacional de
Educaci6n of the Borrower, dated October 16, 1970; and
(d)   "Escuelas Normales " means secondary schools exclusively engaged in
the training of primary school teachers.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement and to be financed under
this Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank
(other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1975, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 1981 and ending October 1, 2020,
each installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 1990 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain and operate in the Ministry of Education a Project Unit with such
responsibilities and powers as are specified in Schedule 4 to this Development Credit
Agreement, under the authority of a Project Director responsible directly to the
Minister of Education and with the assistance of an architect, both to be employed
on a full-time basis and to be acceptable to the Association; and shall provide
such Project Unit promptly as needed with such qualified and experienced
supporting staff (including a full-time accountant and a procurement officer),
facilities and other resources as shall be required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of plans
and specifications for, and the supervision of construction of, Part A of the Project,
and in the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
architectural and educational consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall promptly take all requisite steps to (i)
enable its architectural consultants to have access to such land as shall be required
for the educational institutions included in the Project and (ii) acquire the
ownership of such land prior to the beginning of construction of such educational
institutions, the selection of such land to be subject to the prior approval of the
Association.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
its Secretaria de Estado de Educaci6n, Bellas Artes y Cultos to employ contractors
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the


﻿6
acquisition, tranAsportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contracts, work schedules and
master lists of instructional equipment and furniture required for the Project, and
any material modifications or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.08. Not later than September 1, 1972, the Borrower shall start
and then carry out in one of the Facultades de Educaci6n of any university
operating within the territories of the Borrower a one-year program, satisfactory
to the Association, to train not less than forty industrial-subject teachers for the
educational institutions included in the Project.
Section 3.09. Within one year from   the date of this Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall, with due regard to its social and economic needs,
initiate the preparation of a long-range comprehensive education development plan;
and shall, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, complete the preparation
of such plan not later than three years after the date of this Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting


﻿7
practices the operations, administration and financial condition, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) adequately maintain the buildings,
furniture and equipment of the educational institutions included in the Project
and make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof in accordance with sound
technical and administrative practices; and (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such maintenance, repairs
and renewals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall increase the number of scholarships for
the Escuelas Normales of the Borrower to not less than 600 for boarders and
to not less than 300 for day-students by the 197 1-72 academic year, and to not
less than 900 and 800, respectively, by the 1973-1974 academic year.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall operate the educational institutions included
in the Project in accordance with sound administrative and educational policies
and practices and with due regard to economy, and shall provide such institutions
with qualified teachers and administrators in adequate numbers and on a full-time
basis.
*0                                         ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including the balance of payments


﻿8
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations, administration and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,


﻿*                                           9
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in this Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date May 18, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretario de Estado de Educaci6n, Bellas Artes y Cultos
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretarfa de Estado de Educaci6n,
Bellas Artes y Cultos
Avenida Mdximo G6n'ez
Santo Domingo
Dominican Republic
Cable address:
Secretaria de Estado oe Educaci6n,
Bellas Artes y Cultos
Santo Domingo


﻿10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By /s / Lic. S. Salvador Ortiz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿*                                11
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in            % of Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
I.   Civil works and                1,580,000          35% of total expendi-
professional                                      tures (representing
services                                          the estimated foreign
expenditures compo-
nent)
II.   Furniture                      220,000           50% of total expendi-
tures (representing
the estimated foreign
expenditures compo-
nent)
III.  Instructional equip-          1,390,000           100% of foreign
ment and books                                    expenditures
IV.  Technical assistance            300,000            100% of foreign
and fellowships                                   expenditures
V.    Unallocated                    510,000
TOTAL        4,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;


﻿12
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and local expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Development Credit Agreement;
and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentages set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any of the Categories I
through IV shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category
and no longer required therefor shall be reallocated by the Association to
Category V;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any of the Categories I
through IV shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the
table in paragraph I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to
the amount of such increase, and a corresponding amount shall be reallocated by
the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from Category
V, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories I or
II shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit shall be available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:
(1)   Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i)         three new Ciclo Bdsico secondary schools;
(ii)       six new multilateral Ciclo Superior secondary schools; and
(iii)      two new Escuelas Normales.
(2)   Construction of extensions to, improvement of, and supplementary
furnishing and equipping of, three existing primary teacher training
colleges; and
(3)   Supplementary equipping of three existing lower secondary schools.
The specific educational institutions to be included in Part A of the Project,
the location and the planned total enrollment, boarding places and staff housing
capacities thereof, shall be as specified in Exhibit A to this Schedule, subject to
modification by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Part B:
Establishment of an educational development planning group within the
Ministry of Education of the Borrower, including the provision of technical
assistance and the granting of overseas fellowships, as set forth in Exhibit B to
this Schedule, subject to modification by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1975.


﻿14
EXHIBIT A TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Educational Institutions
Location         Student Places      Boarding Places      Staff Housing
Part A (1) (i) of the Project
Santo Domingo         840
Barahona              840
Bonao                 840
Part A (1) (ii) of the Project
Santo Domingo         760                     -                  -
Santiago              760                     -                  -
La Romana             760                     -                  -
Puerto Plata          760                     -                  -
Bonao                 760                     -                  -
Barahona              760                     -                  -
Part A (1) (iii) of the Project
San Juan de la
Maguana          400                  250                  4
Santo Domingo         400                     -                 1
Part A (2) of the Project
San Crist6bal         200*                                      2*
San Pedro de
Macoris          170*                   -                  4*
Licey al Medio        180*                  90*                 1*
Part A (3) of the Project
Santiago                                      -
La Romana
Puerto Plata
*    Increment resulting from the Project only


﻿15
EXHIBIT B TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance
1.   Educational Development Planning Group
Education Planner (chief of group):           One for     2     years
Educational Economist:                        One for     1.5   years
Education Administration Specialist:          One for     1.5   years
Total                  5     man/years
2.    Project Implementation Specialists
School Administrator (chief of group):        One for     1.5   years
Industrial (mechanical) Educator:             One for     1     year
Industrial (electrical) Educator:             One for     1     year
Business Educator:                            One for     1     year
Home Economics:                               One for     1     year
Industrial Teacher Training:                  One for     1     year
Total                  6.5   man/years
3.    Specialist in Organization and
Administration of Escuelas
Normales                                 One for     1.5  years
Total                  1.5   man/years
II.   Fellowships
Vice-Principals (technical) for
educational institutions
included in Part A (1) (ii)
of the Project:                          Six for    1     year
Principals for educational
institutions included in
Part A (1) (iii) of the
Project:                                Two for     1     year
Total                  8     man/years


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Contractors shall be pre-qualified in accordance with paragraph 1.3 of the
Guidelines referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement.
2.    Before pre-qualification is invited, the Borrower shall inform the Association
in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The proposed list
of pre-qualified contractors, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for pre-qualification, shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions or deletions from the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
4.    The documents referred to in paragraph A.3 above shall at least include the
following:
(a)   list of all proposed civil works bid packages, indicating the estimated
value of each such bid package and the forecast timetable for award. The
educational institutions included in the Project shall be grouped in such bid packages
as shall encourage international competitive bidding;
(b)   description of the proposed international advertising coverage to ensure
international competitive bidding;
(c)   draft bidding documents, draft invitations to bid and draft contracts.
The invitations to bid shall, inter alia, specify that the bidder may submit bids
in respect of each educational institution included in a given bid package or of
all of them, or any combination thereof, all bids for such bid package to be opened
simultaneously. The Borrower shall have the option of awarding to one contractor


﻿17
a single contract in respect of the entire bid package, or separate contracts to
different contractors in respect of the several such institutions included in such
bid package or any combination thereof.
5.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Project Unit
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the said Project
Unit's recommendations for award, and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to
the intended award, and shall state the reasons for any such objection it may
have.
6.    If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection, or if its
terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be financed
out of the proceeds o the Credit.
7.    Promptly after a contract has been executed between the Secretaria de Estado
de Educaci6n, Bellas Artes y Cultos of the Borrower and a contractor, and before
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in
respect of such contract, a certified copy thereof shall be sent to the Association.
8.    The Borrower shall request the Association's prior approval for any proposed
change in a contract involving a price increase of 10% of the original contract
price or more than US$25,000 equivalent, whichever is less, together with an
explanation of the proposed change.
B.    Contracts for Instructional EquipMent, Books and Furniture
1.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for its
approval the following:
(a)   lists of all items of instructional equipment, books and furniture
required for the Project showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total
price of each item. Items will be indexed, coded and numbered for identification
regarding the respective educational institution and the spaces for which they are
required. The items to be purchased will be grouped so as to permit bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical and procurement practices.
Insofar as practicable, contracts for such items will be for not less than $40,000
equivalent. Amendments of such lists which may be made from time to time will
also be submitted to the Association for approval; and


﻿18
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
description of the method to be used for obtaining bids on an international basis.
2.    Pursuant to paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines for Procurement referred to
in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, the Association agrees that
where bids are submitted by manufacturers or suppliers, established in the territories
of the Borrower, of goods manufactured or processed to a substantial extent within
the territories of the Borrower (Local Bids), the following rules shall be observed
for the purpose of comparing any Local Bid to any other competing bid (Foreign
Bids):
(a)   All taxes on the importation of the goods offered shall first be excluded
from the total of any Foreign Bid.
(b)   The portion of any Foreign Bid representing the c.i.f. landed price
of such goods shall then be increased by 15% thereof or the applicable amount
of such taxes as they generally apply to non-exempt purchasers importing such
goods in the territories of the Borrower, whichever is lower.
(c)   The figure resulting from  (b) above plus the portion of the same
Foreign Bid representing inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to their site of use or installation, as designated in the specifications,
shall be deemed to be the price of such Foreign Bid for purposes of comparison
with the Local Bids.
(d)   If the price of the goods delivered to such site offered by the lowest
evaluated Local Bid is equal to or lower than the comparison price of the lowest
evaluated Foreign Bid arrived at under (b) and (c) above, then such Local Bid
may be considered the lowest evaluated bid for purposes of paragraph 3.9 of the
said Guidelines for Procurement.
(e)   In cases where it is recommended to award a contract to a Local Bid,
the bid analysis shall state the amount of the taxes referred to in (b) above and
the proportion of the c.i.f. landed price of goods offered under the lowest evaluated
Foreign Bid represented by such amount.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Project Unit
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the said Project
Unit's recommendations for award, and the reasons for the intended award. The


﻿19
Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to
the intended award, and shall state the reasons for any such objection it may
have.
4.    If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection, or if its
terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Promptly after a contract has been executed between the Secretaria de Estado
de Educacin, Bellas Artes y Cultos of the Borrower and a contractor, and before
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in
respect of such contract, a certified copy thereof shall be sent to the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall request the Association's prior approval for any proposed
change in a contract involving a price increase of 10% of the original contract
price or more than US$25,000 equivalent, whichever is less, together with an
explanation of the proposed change.
C.    Technical Assistance and Fellowships
The award of technical assistance contracts and fellowships for study abroad,
provided under Category IV of Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agreement,
shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association. In requesting approval,
the Borrower shall submit the names and curricula vitae of specialists to be recruited
under such contracts and of the trainees to receive such fellowships. In the case
of fellowships, the Borrower shall also provide information about the proposed
program and place of the training and the estimated cost involved.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit shall be responsible for the execution of the Project. It
shall have, inter alia, the necessary powers to:
(a)   select the architectural consultants, approve their terms of reference
and administer their contracts;
(b)   prepare a comprehensive Project implementation chart based on the
Critical Path Method or other similar method, setting down the planned timetable
of coordinated activities and responsibilities on which the carrying out of all aspects
of the Project will be based. Such chart shall be prepared as the first step in
implementing the Project, and the Association shall be given reasonable opportunity
to comment on the planned timetable before it is put into effect;
(c)   prepare briefs for the architectural consultants relating educational
specifications to realistic costing and functional design, and providing information
to the architectural consultants;
(d)   request the review by, and obtain the approval of, the appropriate
authorities of the Borrower of plans, reports, specifications and other material
submitted by the architectural consultants;
(e)   review the architectural drawings to ensure that space provisions and
educational specifications are interpreted correctly so as to minimize changes during
construction and after acceptance and approval of bids;
(f)   prepare detailed reports on the evaluation and comparison of bids
received and make recommendations for the award of contracts for which such
bids have been received;
(g)   expedite the prompt award of contracts relating to the Project;
(h)   prepare, with the help of appropriate agencies of the Borrower, lists
of all instructional equipment, books and furniture required by the educational
institutions included in the Project, together with specifications and the estimated
unit price and total cost of each item;


﻿21
(i)   ensure that all instructional equipment, books and furniture meet
prescribed specifications;
(j)   prepare and administer, in consultation with the appropriate authorities
of the Borrower, the programs and activities of the educational consultants to be
utilized in carrying out Part B of the Project;
(k)   provide liaison with the Association and with all appropriate authorities
of the Borrower in matters relating to the implementation of the Project;
(1)   set up an accounting system, keep Project accounts and prepare interim
financial statements, as required to comply with the provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement;
(m) prepare applications for withdrawals from the Credit Account; and
(n)   evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare quarterly progress
reports to the Association.


