RESTRI CTED
FIlE     COPY                   Report No. P-858
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
September 2, 1970



INTER1ATIONAL DEVT7OP1EJT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECO10IDATION Oj' THE PRESIDMIT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR3 ON A PROPOSED DEVELOP-
1ENTT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
S3COND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the follo7%ling report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to US$4 million for a second technical assistance
project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        On December 27, 1968 the Association made a Development Credit
of US$2 million to Indonesia to help meet the costs of high priority
studies and other projects of technical assistance for which finance from
other sources would not be readily available. The bulk of these funds
has now been committed, or will be committed shortly and the proposed
credit is requested to enable the Government, in cooperation with the
Bank's Resident Staff,, to meet the increasing demand for technical
assistance.
3.        The provisions of the proposed Development Credit are substan-
tially the same as those of the previous Technical Assistance Credit and
were approved by the Government after discussions in Djakarta with the
Bank's Resident Staff.
4.        If approved, the Second Technical Assistance Credit would be
the eleventh Development Credit to Indonesia. The following is a summary
statement of Development Credits to Indonesia to date, with disbursements
as of July 31, 1970:
$million
Undis-
Credit No.  Year  Borrower   Purpose                      ount    bursed
127       1968  Indonesia  Irrigation Rehab.              5.0      2.6
135       1968  Indonesia  Technical Assistance           2.0      1.6
15h       1969  Indonesia  Highways                      28.0     28.0
155       1969  Indonesia  Agricultural Estates         16.0      15.2
165       1969  Indonesia  Electricity Distrib.         15.0      15.0
193       1970  Indonesia  PUSRI Fertilizer Expansion    30.0     30.0 a/
194       1970  Indonesia  Second Agricultural Estates  17.0      17.0 a/
195       1970  Indonesia  Second Irrigation Rehabili-
tation     18.5     18.5 a/
210       1970  Indonesia Telecommunications Expansion 12.8      12.8 a/
211       1970  Indonesia  Fisheries                     3.5       3.5 a/
147.8    144.2
a/ Not yet effective



-2-
5.        Under Credit 154-IND, $61,000 has now boon disbursod on consultant
services. Bids for workshop equipment, and for highway equipment and spares
have been issued;  and it is expected that about $12.8 million of the credit
will be disbursed in fiscal 1971. Under Credit 15{-ID $762,200 has been
disbursed mostly on procurement of fertilizer. Consultants for manage-
ment advisory services have nov assumed their duties, and disbursements
are expected to begin on the other items. Credit 165-IND was declared
effective only on June 1, 1970; management consultants are now in the
field and disbursements are expected to commence shortly.
6.        During the next few months I expect to present to the Executive
Directors proposed credits for a technical education project, for a third
irrigation rehabilitation project, and later in fiscal 1971, credits for
projects for the production and distribution of rice seeds, for tea estates
and for a second highway project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:    Various Governrment departments, agencies and
enterprises.
Amount:           Various currencies equivalent to US$4 million.
Purpose:          The carrying out of high priority studies
and other projects of technical assistance
(subproeects) to assist the Borrower in the
planning and implementation of the rehabili-
tation and development of its econonT. The
purpose and scope of each subproject would be
determined by agreement between the Borrotier
and the Association.
Amortization:     In 50 years, viith a ten year period of grace
through semi-annual instalnlents commencing
October 1, 1980 and ending April 1, 2020.
Each installment up to and including papyent
due April 1, 1990, to be 1/2 of 1 per cent,
and each instalment thereafter to be 1 1/2
per cent.
Service Charge:   3/4 of 1 per cent per annum.



- 3-
PA RT III - TITF PROJECT
8.        The purpose of the Project is to help provide financing for
consulting and engineering services for feasibility, pre-investment and
other studies and activities, for which finance from other sources is not
readily available to help the Governmernt carry out its program of rehabili-
tation and economic development. The project would thus continue the
assistance provided by the first Technical Assistance Credit. Conmnitments
made so far and expected in the near future under this Credit are described
below:
Project                     IDA Contribution
US$  equivalent
(i) Detailed engineering of Djatiluhur
Irrigation Project                               356,000
(ii)  Feasibility study of two partially
established sugar projects                        55,000
(iii)  Seeds Industry Project Preparation                  67,000
(iv)  National Fertilizer Study                          530,000
(v) Ground&ater Project Preparation                      30,000
a1,038,000
Up to now $420,000 has been disbursed.
In addition, commitments are expected to be made soon for an evaluation
of the rice intensification program, requiring approximately $300,000,
and for an inventory of irrigation facilities, estimated to cost approxi-
mately $200,000. Furthermore, it has been agreed in principle that if
UNDP should decline to finance a planned study of the sugar industry of
Indonesia, then Credit 135 would be used.for the purpose. The cost of
the sugar study is estimated at approximately $500,000.  If, as now appears
likely, UNDP should finance that study, the balance left in the present
Credit would be applied towxards subprojects described in paragraphs 11 and 12
below.
9.        The engineering studies for Djatiluhur greatly accelerated the
making of the $18.5 million second Irrigation Rehabilitation Credit
(No. 195 IND). The study of two sugar projects has been completed and
provides the basis for discussion by the Goverrment wlith possible lenders
with respect to further action on the projects.  As mentioned above, I
expect to recommend during the current fiscal year a credit for rice
seeds production and distribution based in part on the study financed by
Credit 135 IND. The National Fertilizer Study is an essential complement
to the PUJSRI Fertilizer Project (Credit No. 193 IND) and will provide the



Government with a basis for further action w4ith respect to fertilizer
production, distribution and use. The groundwater project preparation
study will provide the basis for judging wjhether a groundwater develop-
ment project should be considered for financing in the near future. The
other studies presently contemplated are expected either to prepare
specific investment projects or to provide the basis for policy and
program formulation.
10.       The technical assistance available under the proposed credit,
because it can be used for a broad spectrum of activities and can
be made available quickly and can draw upon expertise available on an
international basis, is particularly valuable to Indonesia. Experience
has indicated also that bilateral aid-givers are willing to finance pro-
jects identified or preared under Bank or IDA auspices even though they
are often reluctant to finance projects developed under other bilateral
auspices.
11.       The proposed credit would continue to finance, but to a larger
extent than hitherto, the final engineering of projects which are specifi-
cally intended for Bank/IDA financing where the use of those funds would
substantially reduce the leadtime between project identification and
appraisal and between approval and disbursement.   There is one immediate
project which requires detailed engineering as a basis for appraisal
and where no assistance from sources other than the Association can be
obtained. This is the highuay project in Sumatra, identified on the
basis of a UNDP-financed feasibility study referred to in paragraph6
above. Because of the severe shortage of budgetary funds for development
purposes the Government has asked that the foreign exchange cost of the
detailed engineering be financed from the proposed technical assistance
credit rather than reimbursed to it from the eventual credit for the
project.  This sub-project alone is likely to absorb about $2.5 million.
The credit for the project itself, assuming it is made, would of course, be
smaller to that extent.
12.       Other contemplated studies are in agriculture (beef cattle
industry in the Eastern islands, crop pest investigation) transport,
industry (iron and steel, industrial estates, pulp and paper, timber
processing), and in power for an engineering feasibility study of
additional thermal power generating capacity in lWlest Java. This feasi-
bility study is estimated to cost about $,500,000.  It is expected that some
studies planned by the Resident Staff will, as in the past, be financed
from other sources; it is therefore not possible at this time to specify
the use of all of the credit funds. But since more than $3 million of the
new funds requested can be expected to be promptly committed as indicated
above, a credit of $4 million appears justified. As indicated earlier,
4h60,000 of the first Technical Assistance Credit do not have a use
immediately in sight, so that a total of $1.5 million for purposes still
to be specified over the next 18 months to twJo years remains available.



13.       The proposed credit would in all essential respects follow
the pattern used in the first credit. The Government of Indonesia would
contribute to the financing of the various technical assistance activities
not less than 15 per cent of the cost of the services concerned, including
contributions in kind. In subprojects committed so far, the Government's
contribution has always exceeded 15 per cent. Standard IDA terms will
apply to the credit since refinancing from a project credit, on which
the normal ten year term of technical assistance credits is based, would
be difficult to accomplish, because the credit is to finance various
studies, related to various projects, some of which may be financed from
other sources. The Director of the Bank's Resident Staff would continue
to act for the Association in dealing with all matters related to the
selection and execution of all subprojects.
14.       Before proceeding with the proposed credit, the availability
of technical assistance from other sources, and other ways of providing
it from IDA have been reviewed. For a number of technical assistance
projects identified or prepared by the Resident Staff, grant financing
has been obtained or is expected -- from UNDP (for the Bali Tourism
and Sugar Industries Studies) and from bilateral aid-givers (for studies
in the fields of transport, agriculture, industry and power).   Efforts
will continue to be made by the Government in cooperation with the Resident
Staff in each instance to obtain grant financing from these sources but as
in the past there wiill be cases where such alternative financing cannot be
arranged at all or on an appropriate basis.    Although considerahle
technical assistance is available from UIJD? and from bilateral aid sources,
substantial additional technical assistance is required for both planning
and execution of programs and projects for which funds would be available
once they had been prepared. The Bank Group's usual procedure of providing
funds for such assistance as part of a project-credit in the same field,
has so far had little application in Indonesia because the need for such
technical assistance could not always be clearly enough identified ijhen
a credit wTas made and because new fields of economic activity are con-
sidered for Bank Group lending as the rehabilitation and development of
Indonesia's economy proceeds.  !Jhile ue would expect to make increasing
use of project credits to finance studies related to future lending in
the respective fields there is still presently, and will continue to be
in the foreseeable future,a pressing need for the funding of technical
activities which the credit would provide.
PERT IV - Legal Instruments and Authority
15.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia end the Association, the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed
Credit are being distributed to the 3xecutive Directors separately.
The text of the Development Credit Agreement follows closely that of
the Development Credit Agreement for the First Technical Assistance Project.



- 6 -
PART V  - TIHE  0ONOIN
16.       The last f'ull economic report on the position and prospects of
Indonesia (FWAP-l0a) uwas issued on November l1, 1969, and has since been
supplemented by a special report, "Current Investment Activity in Indonesia"
(EAP-lba) dated ]'arch 27, 1970.
17.       Ind'onesia's recent economic performance has been satisfactory.
Inflation has been kept under control and, given the neii condition of
relatlve stability, a good start has been made on programs of rehabilitation
and development.  In April 1970, a basic ex:change reform was introduced,
including the unification of the exchange rate (except for a special rate
for program aid); the foreign exchange inarlrets have since been in balance,
and internal price changes have not been si-gnificant. Also in Anril 1970,
agreement i.ias reached betwveen Indonesia and the "Paris Club" countries
(the uestern creditors and Japan) for the re-scheduling of their share of
Indonesia's pre-1967 external debt. The settlement accounts for about
36 per cent of this debt amounting to some $,2.1 billion.
18.       The 1970/71 developrm,ent program is larger than last year's,
and more of it is being financed from Indonesia's oTm resources.  The
effort to expand the hitherto very loj levels of public saving and foreign
and private domestic investment has been impressive; domestic revenues
increased 36 per cent in 1969/70, and a similar increase is expected for
the current year (1970/71).  Development expenditures are still relatively
loiw, hovever, and the very considerable amount of project aid committed in
recent years by the member countries of the Inter-Governmental Group for
Indonesia and by international agencies, including IDA, is only now-1 begin-
ning to flow into Indonesia in sirglnificant quantities.
19.       Pledges of aid for 1970/71 by the IGGI approached the $600 million
requested by the Indonesian Government. This figure included a request for
project aid of $260 million, primarlly for projects requiring an estimated
$150 million in foreign exchange ready for coimitment at the end of 1969 but
also for other projects expected to be ready during the 1970/71 fiscal year.
Commitments of this order are likely to be needed in future years if the
investment requirements of Indonesia are to be met.  Any delay in undertaking
and completing the pre-investment studies and technical assistance required
to bring projects to the stage at uhich commitments are appropriate, could
reduce potential project aid belov development needs.
20.       Th.e immediate development prospects depend largely on the rate
at which the economic and institutional damage caused by past mismanagement
can be repaired. The efforts of the Governrment in this respect are, in
some ways, already becoming eLfective.  However, the aciinistrative frame-
work required for the effective implementation of development projects has
yet to be firmly established. If this is done, and if present economic
policies continue and the flow of technical and financial aid is maintained,
the prospects of growth appear good.



- 7 -
PART VI - COiMPLIANCE '111TH A-RTICLES 02 AGRMIENT
21.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
iwith the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECO1',1JINDATION
22.       I recormend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. hcNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
September 2, 1970



