CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 216 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Technical Assistance Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 15, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 216 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Technical Assistance Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 15, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 1970, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Special Definition
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions),
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following term,
wherever used in the Development Credit Agreement, has the following meaning:
"sub-project" means a particular study or project of technical assistance to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred
to, a development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to four
million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account in the name
of the Borrower and shall credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Agreement and the General Conditions and in accordance with the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit agreed between the Borrower and the Association
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿4
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account an amount equal to such percentage or percentages as shall be agreed
from time to time between the Borrower and the Association, of such amounts
as shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, as shall be required
to meet payments to be made) after the date of this Agreement for the reasonable
cost of goods required to carry out sub-projects, provided, however, that total
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall not exceed 85% of the aggregate of
such costs.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and
October 1 commencing October 1, 1980 and ending April 1, 2020, each
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 1990 to be
one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of Project; Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Project for which the Credit is granted consists in the
carrying out of high-priority studies and other projects of technical assistance,
designed to assist the Borrower in the planning and implementation of its programs
of economic development and rehabilitation and selected by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. The purposes and scope of each sub-project, the methods for
implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto of proceeds of the Credit
shall be determined by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement exclusively to expenditures on
the Project.


﻿5
Section 3.04. Contracts made by the Borrower for consultants' services and
for the purchase of equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.05. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
to be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause each sub-project to be carried out
with due diligence and efficiency and shall make available, promptly as needed,
all funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out each sub-project, the
Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association, to the extent required, and oi, terms and conditions,
including terms of reference, approved by the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   In  respect  of  sub-projects there shall be maintained     steering
*        committees, each consisting of a representative of the Borrower as Chairman, a
representative of the Association and, if the Borrower and the Association shall
so agree, additional members or representatives of other entities concerned with
particular sub-projects.
(c)   The steering committee maintained for each sub-project shall be
responsible for selecting services, equipment and supplies and directing their use
for such sub-project, supervising and directing the work of the consultants employed
therefor, and recommending modifications of their terms of reference or other
terms and conditions of their employment, and reviewing the reports and
recommendations of such consultants.
(d)   The Borrower shall cooperate fully with the consultants in the
performance of their services for the Project and make available to them all
information relevant to the Project.
(e)   The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms and conditions
of employment of the consultants employed for any sub-project, or grant any
material extension of time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications
thereof, or substitution of personnel of such consultants, or suspend payments
under, or terminate, any contract with such consultants without the prior agreement


﻿6
of the Association, acting through the steering committee concerned with the
sub-project.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause consultants employed for the
Project promptly to furnish the Association copies of the documents prepared by
them for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, in such number as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views with respect to the evaluation and implementation of the recommendations
and other conclusions contained in the documents referred to in the foregoing
paragraph (a).
(c)   The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to show the use of the proceeds of the Credit, and to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof); shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect any records and documents relevant to the Project,
including records and documents which the consultants employed by the Borrower
shall be required to keep for the purposes of the Project; and shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or
the maintenance of the service thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿7
Section 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.06. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in
its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance therof,
the Association, at its option, may declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges
thereon, and upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in the Development Credit
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that a default shall have occurred
in the performance of any obligation on the part of the Borrower under the
development    credit  agreement    (Technical   Assistance  Project)  dated
December 27, 1968, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The date of November 30, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1973 or such other
date as may from time to time be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿8
Section 7.02. The Minister of Finance of thc Borrower is designated for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Alternative address for cables:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through        their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Soedjatmoko
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. Shoaib
Vice President


