Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15204
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1607-BUR)
DECEMBER 27, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(09/30/95)
Currency Unit          =       CFA franc'
US$1                   =       495 CFA franc
SDR I                  =       US$1.40
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAMEG                         Essential Generic Drugs Purchasing Agency
CMA                           Medical Center with Surgical Unit
CSPS                          Health and Social Development Center
DENW                          Directorate for Equipment, Materiel, and Maintenance
DEPSS, later DEP              Health Studies, Planning and Statistics Directorate
DFP                           Professional Training Directorate
DGED                          General Directorate for Hospitals
DHC                           Directorate of Hospitals and Clinics
DSEV                          Directorate of Epidemiological Surveillance and Vaccinations
DSPH                          Directorate of Pharmaceutical Services
DSPS                          Provincial Directorates of Public Health
EPI                           Expanded Program of Immunization
FEER                          Water and Rural Equipment Fund (Fonds de 1 'eau et d 'equipement rural)
GOBF                          Government of Burkina Faso
GTZ                           German Technical Cooperation Agency (Deutsche Gesellschaftfir Technische
Zusammenarbeit)
MCH                           Maternal and Child Health
MOH                           Ministry of Health
OCP                           Onchocerciasis Control Program
PMU                           Project Management Unit
SONAPHARM                     National Pharmaceutical Supply Company
UNFPA                         United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF                        United Nations International Children's Fund
USAID                         United States Agency for International Development
WHO                           World Health Organization
The exchange rate for the CFA franc is fixed at a ratio of 100:1 with the French franc, which is a free-
floating currency.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................... 
PART I:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
I.           INTRODUCTION                                                       1
A.  Macroeconomic Setting                     .I
B.  Bank's Role in the Sector                  .2
H.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                   . . 2
A. Project Objectives                       .2
B.    Project Description and Components                          3
C.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreement          .4
D.    Evaluation of Project Objectives                            5
m.           IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS..     8
A.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability          8
B.    Summary of Financing Arrangements and Costs                11
C.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives .12
D.    Assessment of the Bank's and the Borrower's Performance  . 12
E.    Assessment of Project's Outcome .13
IV.          FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED    13
A.    Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience .  13
B.    Future Operations and Sustainability .14
C.    Lessons for Future Projects in the Population and Health Sectors
in Burkina Faso .14
PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .15
APPENDIXES
A.    BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
B.    MAP IBRD
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.  |






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1607-B UR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health Services
Development Project in Burkina Faso, for which Credit 1607-BUR was approved on May
20, 1985, in the amount of SDR 26.9 million (US$26.6 million equivalent in 1985) and
which became effective on January 16, 1986. The Credit was closed on December 31,
1994, 42 months behind schedule. It was disbursed up to an amount of SDR 26.3 million
(US$35.5 million equivalent in 1995). The undisbursed amount of SDR 0.6 million
(US$0.8 million equivalent in 1995) was canceled.
The initial ICR was prepared by Jean George Dehasse, consultant under the
supervision of Bruna Vitagliano (task manager, AF4PH). It was redrafted and finalized by
Bruna Vitagliano and Ross Pfile (AF4PH), reviewed by Whitney Foster (AF4CO), Ian
Porter, Division Chief (AF4PH) and Franz Kaps, Operations Adviser (AF4DR). The
Borrower submitted its input to the ICR in a report dated December 12, 1994. The
Borrower's acceptance of the ICR was provided during a supervision mission of the
follow-up Health and Nutrition Project (Cr. 2595-BUR) which took place November 7-
19, 1995 and was recorded in the aide-memoire of this mission.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in April 1995. It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and other
relevant records.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1607-BUR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Bank's Role in the Country and Sector. Burkina Faso is one of the world's
poorest countries, with a GNP per capita estimated at US$185 in 1994, and low social
indicators in primary school enrollment, adult literacy, access to health services, and life
expectancy (para. 1.1). Faced with growing fiscal and current account deficits, in 1991
the Government adopted a structural adjustment program which was supported by the
IMF and the Bank. This program helped the Government manage public resources more
effectively and supported critical actions needed to alleviate long-term constraints on
economic growth and social development, with a focus on health, population, and
education. In January 1994, the Government decided, together with other countries of the
CFA franc zone, to devalue its currency by 50 percent in foreign exchange terms. IDA
supported this action through an Economic Recovery Credit. Despite the progress made
to date, much remains to be done in all sectors to overcome Burkina Faso's very poor
national resource endowment, and the legacy of the country's past policies (paras 1.2 and
1.3).
2.    The Bank's involvement in Burkina Faso's health sector started with the Regional
Onchocerciasis Control Program (OCP), which succeeded in freeing about 17 percent of
Burkina Faso's land from the debilitating riverblindness. The Health Services
Development Project was the first IDA operation focused on revitalizing Burkina Faso's
health services delivery system.
3.    Project Objectives. The main objectives of the Health Services Development
Project were to (a) strengthen basic health and family planning services; (b) help formulate
national health and population policies and promote their application; and (c) strengthen
the Ministry of Health's (MOH) institutional capacity in planning, evaluation, and project
implementation and monitoring.
4.    Project Description and Components.  Under objective (a), the following
components were included: (i) extension of the immunization program and establishment
of a national malaria treatment program; (ii) development of an in-service training
program in primary health care at the provincial level; (iii) construction and upgrading of
142 health centers (CSPS), and six referral centers (surgical antennae); and (iv) feasibility
studies to improve the maintenance of health facilities and equipment and to improve
hospital sector management. Under objective (b), the national health policy and program
development included: (i) testing cost recovery, drug distribution, and extension of village
health and nutrition systems; (ii) implementation of the test results, feasibility and pilot
studies; and (iii) establishment of a population program and provision of family planning



ii
services through the public and private sectors. Under objective (c) the following
components were included: (i) the establishment of eight Provincial Directorates of Public
Health, and the provision of two mobile epidemiological surveillance units; and (iii)
strengthening of health planning and project implementation services, including
preparation of future health projects.
5.    Credit Covenants and Special Arrangements. During credit negotiations, the
following agreements were reached: (a) establish a revolving fund to support primary
health care services, including the replenishment of chloroquine for the anti-malaria
treatment program; (b) an annual review of all investments in the health sector; (c) by
March 31, 1988 present to IDA the results of operational field testing of drug distribution,
cost recovery, village health and nutrition activities, and the financial requirements of a
primary health care system; and finalize studies to improve MCH and family planning
services, maintenance of health facilities and hospital management; and (d) by April 1,
1989 implement the results of above studies for which a fund of US$5 million was
earmarked under the Credit. With regard to its drug policy, the Borrower committed itself
to present to IDA by December 31, 1985: (a) plans for strengthening national drug
procurement and distribution; (b) an official drug distribution list in conformity with
WHO's essential drug guidelines; (c) adopt such list and review it annually; and (d)
publish a drug formulary based on such list and create a pharmaceutical information
service capable of providing information to prescribers and the public on essential generic
drugs.
6.    In addition to the above, the following conditions of credit effectiveness were
agreed upon: (a) establishment of a Project Management Unit, including appointment of
staff, (b) establishment of an adequate project accounting system: and (c) the opening of a
special account. These conditions were complied with by the Government to the
satisfaction of IDA and the Credit was declared effective on January 16, 1986.
7.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project's objectives were clear and
consistent with the Government's primary health care strategy and the sector's needs. Yet,
in the absence of an implementation plan and a strong Government commitment, a number
of these objectives turned out to be ambitious and difficult to implement. The 1988
project mid-term review (MTR) showed achievements in the immunization, malaria, in-
service training, and construction programs, but little or no progress in the area of policy
reforms. Inadequate supervision by IDA in the first years of project implementation, poor
policy dialogue, and the Government's reluctance to use IDA funds for the social sector
are largely responsible for the uneven project success prior to the MTR. Budgetary
constraints and concerns about the increasing cost of providing health care services, as
well as awareness of the macroeconomic consequences of a rapid population growth led
to, at the end of the 1980s, a change in Government's attitude toward policy reforms and
encouraged a more intensified policy dialogue with IDA and other donors. This dialogue
led to a 1990 decision by the Government to decentralize the health system at the district
level, launch a more effective essential drug program and a well-targeted family planning
program. The project was restructured to assist the Government in implementing these
reforms. Project performance improved considerably as a result of the restructuring,



iii
particularly in the areas of essential drugs and decentralization of the health system. At
the time of its closing the project's impact on the development of the health sector in
Burkina Faso was quite substantial.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE, SUSTAINABILITY, AND RESULTS
8.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. The main objectives of the
projects were met: (a) basic health services and family planning programs were
strengthened through (i) the decentralization of the health system at the district level, the
elimination of vertical programs, and the integration of services at the various levels of the
health care system; and (ii) the expansion of the malaria treatment and immunization
programs; (b) important health and population policies were formulated and implemented
during the life of the project; and (c) the MOH's capability in planning, evaluation, and
project implementation was strengthened through technical assistance and training.
9.    The following factors are likely to sustain the project's outcome: (a) streamlining
and rationalization of the health system; elimination of expensive vertical programs and
integration of services at the various levels of the health care system; (b) greater national
participation in the design of project activities following its restructuring; (c) introduction
of more affordable essential generic drugs; and (d) more emphasis on community
participation in the management of health facilities.
10.   Financing Arrangements and Costs. Project financing arrangements included an
IDA credit of SDR 26.9 million (US$26.6 million), and a Government contribution for
local costs of US$1.4 million equivalent. Because the construction program became
considerably larger than envisaged at appraisal as a result of project restructuring, costs
increased from  US$28.0 million to US$36.8 million.   This amount could be
accommodated under the original credit amount due to a substantial appreciation of the
SDR vis-a-vis the US dollar during the life of the project.
11.   Project Timetable. The credit was approved by the Board on June 11, 1985,
signed on June 17, 1985, and became effective on January 3, 1986. The project closing
date, initially scheduled for July 31, 1991, was extended four times to December 31, 1994.
The project was executed over a nine year period compared to a projected five and a half
year period. Final disbursements took place on April 30, 1995, and an amount of
US$800,000 was canceled.
12.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. The reorientation of the
project after the MTR was key in helping the project achieve its objectives. The intense
policy dialogue established between the Government and the donor community on major
health sector policy issues and the participation of the Burkinabe in the restructuring of the
project contributed to assuring a greater ownership of the revised operation. During the
Sankara regime (1983-87), very limited disbursement took place under the Credit, as the
Government did not want to use borrowed funds for the social sector. This attitude,
however, disappeared over the years, as grants financing from other donors was reduced.



iv
In recent years, IDA has become Burkina Faso's main donor in the health sector. The
health reform program introduced in the early 1990s received the support of the 1991 First
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) and of the 1994 Economic Recovery Program
(ERAC), which helped accelerate it. A more explicit linking of health with the budgetary
projections contained in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) also contributed to ensuring
better budgetary allocation to the sector.
13.   Assessment of the Bank's and the Borrower's Performance.  The Health
Services Development Project was the first comprehensive intervention of the Bank in the
health sector in Burkina Faso. Both the Bank's and the Borrower's attitude evolved
during the long period of project implementation adjusting to experience and reflecting (in
the case of the Bank) the increased emphasis being given to thorough supervision of
operations. The much stronger policy dialogue in which the Bank and the Borrower
engaged in the early 1990s brought many new ideas and concepts into play and generated
a debate which led to a complete overhaul of the existing health system. IDA showed
flexibility by adapting the project design to Burkina Faso's changed circumstances and
needs.
14.   Despite early delays in project implementation, the Borrower's performance was
satisfactory, particularly in the areas of essential generic drugs and the restructuring of the
health system. While the Project Management Unit (PMU) appeared to fulfill its
responsibilities, the lack of a monitoring system and of monitorable indicators makes it
particularly difficult to measure project impact.
15.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. As a result of the restructuring that followed
the MTR, the project was able to make considerable progress in helping the Borrower
improve the effectiveness of the health care delivery system. The project also contributed
in making essential drugs more accessible and affordable in Burkina Faso. By introducing
cost recovery and promoting the financial autonomy of peripheral health facilities it has
ensured that these facilities have the means to cover some of their operating expenses. In
view of above achievements the project's outcome can be rated as satisfactory.
16.   Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience. The improved
relationship between the Government and the Bank midway through the project, greater
Burkinabe involvement in the restructuring of the project, the more intensive policy
dialogue between the Government, IDA, and other donors on reforms for the health and
population sectors, had a major beneficial effect on project implementation.
17.   The introduction of some important, politically sensitive reforms, such as the
adoption of the district approach, would have benefited from a national debate early in the
process, to build consensus. Donors also underestimated the limited capacities of the local
authorities to carry out the reform program, which took longer to implement than
expected.
18.   With the Bank assuming a leadership role in the health sector, it would have been
advisable to strengthen the capacity of the Resident Mission to deal with the many policy



v
issues addressed under the project and ensure a continuous dialogue on them with the
Borrower and the donor community.
19.   Future Operations and Sustainability. IDA's operations in the sector continue
to place emphasis on improving quality, coverage, and affordability of health services to
increase their utilization and enhance the health status of the population. With regard to
population policies, IDA's current operation in this sector emphasizes improving the
demand and the supply of family planning services integrated into maternal and child
health care.
20.   The two new operations currently being implemented in the population and health
sectors support private sector and NGO participation in these sectors as well as
mobilization of grassroots participation in the management of health and population
services.
21.   Lessons for Future projects in the Population and Health Sectors in Burkina
Faso. A first important lesson is that policy reforms should be in place prior to starting
project investments. A second lesson is that a detailed implementation plan, which also
incorporates a monitoring system and appropriate monitorable indicators, is absolutely
essential to keep track of project progress. A third lesson is that stakeholder participation
throughout the project cycle is essential to ensure a better sense of ownership and build
commitment. A fourth lesson is that future projects would need to dramatically expand
public education programs on health and population issues, in order to increase acceptance
rates. A fifth lesson is that adequate emphasis needs to be given to institution
strengthening and human resource development. A sixth lesson is that projects in the
health and population sectors cannot be solely supervised by Headquarters. It is important
to have the Resident Mission actively involved in the policy dialogue and in project
supervision.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1607-BUR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
A.   Macroeconomic Setting
1.1   Burkina Faso is a resource-poor, landlocked country in a transitional zone between
the Sudano-Guinean regions and the Sahel. Although fragile, soils are comparatively
fertile. The majority of Burkina Faso's population of roughly 10 million (nearly 90 percent
rural), depends mainly on agriculture and livestock raising. Population growth, at about 3
percent per annum, is creating severe pressure on arable land. Burkina Faso remains one
of the world's poorest countries, with a GNP per capita estimated at US$185 in 1994, and
with low social indicators in primary school enrollment (estimated at 36 percent in 1994),
adult literacy (13 percent in 1993), access to health services, and life expectancy (43
years).
1.2   In spite of the handicaps constraining its economic performance, in the 1980s
Burkina Faso recorded a growth rate that was sufficient to slightly raise per capita income
and consumption, as real GDP grew by 3.5 percent per year between 1980 and 1993.
Year-to-year variations in growth were significant and depended mostly on the weather
and related agricultural and livestock production developments. Because 1991 was a
good agricultural year and the private sector started to respond to reforms in the incentive
framework, the expansion of GDP in real terms reached 6 percent. In contrast, economic
developments in 1992 and 1993 were, on the whole, disappointing, as external factors and
weak external demand combined with uneven rainfall slowed the growth of domestic
output and income, worsened the public finance situation, and weakened the external
position.
1.3   The Government adopted a Structural Adjustment Program in 1991 (Cr. 2281-
BUR) supported by IDA and the IMF. The corrective measures implemented under the
program, which initially focused on internal adjustment policies, have contributed to a
narrowing of the overall fiscal deficit and to the containment of the current account deficit.
Taking into account changes in the external environment, as well as economic and
financial development in Burkina Faso, the Government recognized both the limitations of
the purely internal adjustment strategy to achieve the necessary depreciation of the real
effective exchange rate and the need to strengthen the ongoing structural reform program.
Thus, the Government decided, together with the other countries of the CFA franc zone,
to devalue the CFA franc by 50 percent in foreign currency terms effective January 12,
1994, and it adopted an updated medium-term structural adjustment program (supported
by the IMF and IDA). Developments since the devaluation are broadly satisfactory.



2
Inflation appears to have been contained within the projected range, and, as expected, the
Government was able to lift the price controls that had been reimposed after the
devaluation. There is also strong evidence of a rebound in export and import substitution
sectors, such as textiles, soap, and cycles. Despite the progress made to date, much
remains to be done to overcome the severe structural and institutional problems left as a
legacy of the country's past policies.
B.    Bank's Role in the Sector
1.4   Following the 1978 Alma Ata Conference on Health for All by Year 2000, the
Government of Burkina Faso adopted a health strategy that emphasized primary health
care, prevention, and greater accessibility of services to the population. Primary health
care was to be provided by a network of health services consisting of several clusters of
village health posts, each of these clusters supervised by a health center (Centre de Sante
et Promotion Social - CSPS). Run by local volunteers (the village community health
workers and the traditional birth attendants), village health posts had the important task
of stimulating grass-roots efforts for improving health conditions through village self-
help. The public health system, in particular the health post as the first echelon of this
system, was to provide the backing the village health post network needed to operate
effectively. To carry out this strategy, in the 1980s the Government embarked on a
massive program of setting up health posts in most of the country's villages and of
upgrading rural dispensaries to become health centers.
1.5   The Health Services Development Project (Cr. 1607-BUR), IDA's second
intervention in the health sector after the successful Regional Onchocerciasis Control
Program (OCP), was designed to help the Government carry out its primary health care
strategy. The project was meant to be dynamic in its approach and keep health and
population policy dialogue alive throughout the project's life. It intended to provide,
through operational research and testing, the opportunity to improve upon health and
family planning policies and practices.
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.    Project Objectives
2.1   The main objectives of the project were to:
(a)   strengthen basic health and family planning services, with initial emphasis
on the control of communicable diseases and the treatment of malaria;
(b)   help formulate national health and population policies and promote their
application; and
(c)   strengthen the Ministry of Health's (MOH) institutional capability in
planning, evaluation, and project implementation and monitoring.



3
B.   Project Description and Components
2.2   The project consisted of the following components: (a) strengthening basic
health and family planning services including:  (i) extension of the immunization
program to 15 provinces, rehabilitation of 20 mobile teams and 30 urban vaccination
centers, and construction of a national malaria treatment program; (ii) development of an
in-service training program in primary health care at the provincial level; (iii) construction
and upgrading of about 142 Centers for Health and Social Promotion (CSPS) and
establishment of six referral centers (surgical antennae); and (iv) execution of feasibility
studies to improve maintenance of health facilities and equipment at the provincial level
and to improve management of the hospital network; (b) development of National
Health and Population Policies and Program including: (i) testing cost recovery, drug
distribution and extension of village health and nutrition systems; (ii) implementation of
the results of tests, feasibility and pilot studies related to objectives (a) (iv) and (b) (i)
above; and (iii) establishment of a Population program, including demographic analysis
and population policy development, information, training, and the provision of family
planning services through the public and private sectors and voluntary associations; (c)
strengthening of the Ministry of Health including: (i) the establishment of about eight
Provincial Directorates of Public Health (DSPS), and provision of two mobile
epidemiological surveillance units; and (ii) strengthening health planning and project
implementation services, including preparation of future health projects.
2.3   Implementation was carried out by the various directorates of the Ministry of
Health which were to incorporate the inputs of the project into their regular flow of
activities. MOH directorates involved in project implementation included, in particular:
(a)   the Health Studies, Planning and Statistics Directorate (DEPSS, later DEP)
charged with undertaking special studies in the province of Boulgou,
including drug distribution and cost recovery;
(b)   the Professional Training Directorate (DFP), in charge of planning and
coordinating the in-service training to be carried out at the provincial level
by a team of national trainers. Under the project, the unit was responsible
for preparing training modules on six subject matters: organization and
management of primary health care; expanded program of immunization
(EPI); maternal and child health (MCH) and family planning; detection and
treatment of malnutrition; sanitation and the control of parasitic diseases;
and prescription and use of essential drugs.
(c)   the Epidemiological Surveillance and Vaccinations Directorate  (DSEV)
charged with carrying out and supervising the cold chain, training and the
immunization and malaria components of the project; and
(d)   the Pharmaceutical Services Directorate (DSPH), in charge of developing
the national pharmaceutical policy, preparing the drug formulary in



4
conformity with the policy, planning of procurement, and educating the
prescribers and the public about the Government's essential drug policy.
2.4   A small Project Management Unit (PMU) was attached to the Office of the
General Secretary to coordinate all parties involved in project implementation at central
and provincial levels. The PMU was also given the role of scheduling and monitoring
program activities
C.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreement
2.5   During credit negotiations, the following agreements were reached, namely, that
the Borrower will: (a) establish an account as a revolving fund to support primary health
care services, including the replenishment of chloroquine for the anti-malaria program.
Chloroquine will be sold at prices that will allow the program to be self-supporting as of
the third year of project implementation; (b) consult with IDA if further studies indicate
the need for reorientation of the national health policy; (c) hold annual meetings of donor
agencies to monitor progress in program implementation; (d) annually review all
investments made in the health sector in the previous year and which are expected to be
made during the upcoming year, including recurrent cost implications; (e) by March 31,
1988, present to IDA the results of operational field testing of drug distribution, cost
recovery, village health and nutrition activities, and the financial requirements of a national
primary health care system; and finalize feasibility studies to improve MCH and family
planning services, maintenance of health facilities and hospital management; and (f) by
April 1, 1989, implement the results of above studies, for which a fund of US$5 million
had been earmarked under the credit. With regard to its drug policy, the Borrower
committed itself to taking the following actions: (a) by December 31, 1985, present to
IDA: (i) a plan for strengthening national drug procurement and distribution; and (ii) an
official list of pharmaceutical products authorized for importation, such list being
presented by the generic and specialty brand names equivalent in conforrnity with WHO's
essential drug guidelines; (b) adopt such list and review it annually; (c) by June 30, 1986,
publish a new drug formulary based on said list and create in the MOH a pharmaceutical
information service capable of providing information to prescribers and the public on
essential drugs; and (d) carry out a program to inform the public about essential drugs.
Finally, the Borrower and IDA agreed that they will jointly assess, on an annual basis, the
performance of SONAPHARM, a newly created drug importation agency with mixed
capital (51 percent Government, 49 percent private pharmacies) and determine the need
for allowing greater competition in drug procurement.
2.6   In addition to the above, the following conditions of credit effectiveness were also
agreed upon: (a) the establishment of an appropriate project accounting system; (b)
establishment of a Project Management Unit, including appointment of staff, and (c) the
opening of the project special account. Furthermore, the Borrower agreed not to make
withdrawals for: (a) the purchase of chloroquine, until IDA has satisfied itself that
adequate arrangements have been made for the procurement, distribution and cost
recovery of chloroquine; and (b) the CSPS construction component, prior to (i) the
adoption of an agreement between the MOH, the Ministry of Finance on the one hand,



5
and the Fonds de 'Eau et d'Equipement Rural (FEER), on the other; and (ii) the
appointment of an engineer, an accountant and two initial site supervisors to the FEER.
D.   Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.7   Project's objectives were clear and consistent with both the Government declared
primary health care strategy and the sector's needs. However, in the absence of an
implementation plan and a strong Government commitment, a number of these objectives
turned out to be too ambitious and difficult to implement. Because of the Government
preference to use grant funds for the social sector, very little disbursement took place
under the project in the first two years of its implementation. The October 1988 mid-term
review showed achievements in some areas, but little or no progress in others. The
Government immunization and chloroquine programs improved considerably as a
result of the project (paras 3.1-3.2 ). With regard to in-service training, about 2,300
health workers had received the first cycle of training in the six selected subject matters
and a second cycle was being carried out (para. 3.3). In the area of construction, 15
instead of 8 provincial Directorates of Public Health were constructed (para. 3.10). The
rehabilitation and construction program of CSPS, managed by the parastatal FEER and
expected to be carried out with villagers' participation, was considerably behind schedule
in 1988, but improved rapidly when the decision was made to have the progran completed
by local private construction firms (para. 3.5).
2.8   By the project's mid-term review, the poorest results were achieved in the
following areas. (a) Essential drugs. Half way through the project, the Government had
yet to adopt a list of essential drugs authorized for import and distribution in the country,
in conformity with WHO essential drug guidelines. The quantity of generic drugs
imported in the country was very small, although these drugs were, on average, about
seven times cheaper than their correspondent brand names and SONAPHARM had yet to
perform its social role of facilitating the import of more affordable drugs in the country.
(b) Cost recovery. Progress in this area was hampered by the Government's reluctance to
institutionalize cost recovery in the health sector and give financial autonomy to peripheral
health facilities. The Boulgou cost recovery pilot operation, designed to test appropriate
cost recovery mechanisms at each level of services, was experiencing considerable delays.
(c) Feasibility and pilot studies, in the areas of family planning, drug distribution, village
health and nutrition systems, to test: (i) new innovative approaches to family planning
services; (ii) the organizational and management requirements of the CSPS with regard to
outreach supervision and referral; and (iii) what kind of health and nutrition services could
be provided by the villagers themselves with the support of the CSPS. Only one study on
family planning had been undertaken at the time of the mid-term review and no use had
been made of the US$5 million fund for new projects in above areas.  (d) The
development of a more effective population policy. Little commitment on the
Government's side to embark on a stronger population program, prevented any progress
in this area. The project's main contribution in this area consisted of the preparation of a
family planning program, which focused on the training of health workers in six provinces
that still lacked family planning services.



6
2.9   Most disappointing of all, however, was the recognition that the project was not
contributing to improving the credibility of the health care system vis-a-vis the population,
which continued to desert it. Utilization rates of public health services were below 30
percent on average and were decreasing.
2.10  A number of factors contributed to the above poor results. In the absence of an
upfront agreement on major policy issues, successful project implementation depended on
the maintenance of a continuous strong dialogue as well as a good communications policy
on these issues and this did not happen in the early stages of the project. The behavior of
the Bank during this period clearly reflects the predominant Bank culture at that time,
more interested in preparing new projects than in ensuring the successful implementation
of those that had been approved. Supervision missions were less frequent, and often
addressed only a portion of the activities the project was intended to support. The
Burkinabe Government did not show much enthusiasm about IDA's involvement in the
social sector, for which it preferred to obtain financing in grant form. This attitude made it
particularly difficult for IDA to impose upfront conditionalities.  The Government's
reluctance to borrow funds for the social sector was also a major factor in the very slow
disbursement rate of this credit, as the Government continued to look for grants also for
those activities for which funding was provided by the IDA credit.
2.11  The "one village, one health post" strategy did not work because communities
were not adequately mobilized and sensitized. Furthermore, health posts never received
the backing of an adequate health care system, an essential element in a strategy that
emphasizes village level health care. Of the over 6,000 health posts established in village
communities in the 1980s, only about 2,000 are still operational, mainly because they
receive the support of NGOs and bilateral donors. CSPS had too limited human and
material resources to carry out any meaningful outreach program. The referral system was
very ineffective, with medical centers (CM) and hospitals operating more as large
dispensaries rather than providers of more specialized care.  Urban-based hospitals
continued to employ a large majority of the trained health personnel and absorb a
disproportionate share of the health budget. Health activities continued to be carried out
as separate vertical programs, heavily financed by external donors, each with its own
coordinator and logistics and with a highly centralized administration. Overlapping of
efforts and waste of human resources were thus very common.
2.12  Faced with increasing budgetary constraints, in 1990 the Government abandoned
its reluctance to introduce cost recovery in the health system. It also became increasingly
concerned about the macroeconomic consequences of a rapidly growing population.
These changes in the policy environment encouraged IDA to undertake an intensive policy
dialogue with the Burkinabe authorities on the need to restructure tne health system,
introduce a more effective drug policy, and address population issues more aggressively.
The dialogue was carried out for over a year during frequent and long supervision
missions. It led, in the area of health, to a decision by the Government to decentralize the
health system so that services could be brought closer to the rural area where most of the
population lives. A national working group formed by the Directors of the most relevant
Directorates in the Ministry of Health and their staff worked very closely with IDA's



7
supervision rnissions in devising a more effective approach. The Government decided to
adopt the health district as the new basic operational unit for health care delivery. The
district consists of a CM upgraded to provide emergency operations (Centre Medical avec
Antenne Chirurgicale-CMA), serving a population of about 180,000, and health centers
(CSPS), usually 15-20, within its zone of responsibility. The Government decided to
establish 53 districts in the country's 30 provinces, with larger provinces having two or
three districts. The new structure allowed for a rationalization of the health system so that
services could be improved without imposing a heavy burden on the budget. Training and
supervision were to be organized and managed at the district level.  Community
participation in the management of health centers became a crucial element of the new
decentralized policy.
2.13  The project was restructured to assist the Government in putting in place the new
health system. By the time the IDA credit closed on December 31, 1994, three and one
half years later than the original closing date of July 31, 1991, considerable progress had
been made in the areas of both pharmaceutical policy and decentralization of the health
system. The pharmaceutical legislation was revised and, following the Government
decision to privatize SONAPHARM, c. new non-profit institution (CAMEG) was
established in 1992 to purchase and supply essential generic drugs to the public health
facilities and to the private non-profit sector. The price of brand names has been
liberalized, while the retail price of about 120 essential generic drugs is set yearly by the
Government and is applied to both the public and the private sector. A growing number
of private pharmacists currently sell generic drugs in Burkina Faso. The project also
financed training programs for district doctors in emergency surgery and district
management. By credit closing date, 14 health districts had been established by the
project, while donors established 7 additional ones. The dialogue on policy reforms is
now carried on in the context of the follow up Health and Nutrition (Cr. 2592-BUR) and
Population and AIDS Projects (Cr. 2619-BUJR). The first will complete the establishment
of the health district network and will also address issues identified by the Health Services
Development Project, such as maintenance of health facilities and the development of an
appropriate hospital strategy. The second project is assisting the Government in the
implementation of its population policy and in the fight against AIDS. The reform
program launched in the context of the Health Services Development Project places
Burkina Faso in a much better position to address its numerous health problems. The
project development objectives have thus been substantially met.
HI. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability
Strengthening of Basic Health and Family Planning Services
3.1   Expanding the immunization program  and establishing a malaria treatment
program: The project originally envisaged to extend the immunization program to 15
provinces. This target was reduced to 9 provinces soon after credit effectiveness because



8
of an expansion of UNICEF's immunization program in the country. However, when this
agency started to experience financial difficulties in 1990 and could no longer maintain its
commitments, the project again expanded its support to the program covering three
additional provinces. Through the combined IDA/UNICEF operation the immunization
coverage of infants increased considerably in the country from 2 percent in the early 1980s
to an estimated 50 percent on average in 1994. While in the early stages of the program,
the Government relied mainly on vertically managed mass vaccination campaigns, starting
1990 it increasingly integrated immunization activities into the regular services of the
health facilities, an essential step to ensure the sustainability of the program. Vaccinations
are now offered by all the 600 CSPS. While the 1994 results represent an important
achievement, vaccination coverage is still considerably below the 90 percent target set by
the Government for 1997. A beneficiary assessment conducted in 1992 on the utilization
of health services in Burkina Faso showed that the immunization program is still more
supply than demand-driven and that a greater effort needs to be made to sensitize the
population and local leaders as to the reasons for and the benefits of vaccination.
3.2   Malaria:  The MOH  decided to abandon its earlier emphasis on malaria
prevention, promoting instead treatment of malaria with chloroquine.  The project
supported this approach by making chloroquine available in sufficient quantity to all levels
of the health care system. Chloroquine tablets were to be sold at prices that would have
allowed the program to become self-supporting as of the third year of its implementation.
This result was achieved. Chloroquine is now available in most of the 600 CSPS at prices
varying between 200 and 250 CFA franc for a normal dose and the program is self
supporting as planned. The chloroquine revolving fund, originally managed by the PMU,
has now been taken over by CAMEG. However, in spite of greater chloroquine
availability, malaria continues to be a major source of morbidity and mortality in the
country. In 1992, it accounted for 23 percent of all cases of disease, 17 percent of all
cases of hospitalization, and for about 50 percent of the mortality cases. To encourage a
greater use of chloroquine, the Center for Malaria Control, established by the Italian
Cooperation, is now selling chloroquine tablets at a subsidized price.  Cost is not,
however, the only factor preventing a greater consumption of chloroquine. Studies on the
health behavior of the population have shown that the causes of malaria are not well
understood by the population and that there is a need to conduct intensive education
campaigns.
3.3   Development of an in-service training program in primary health care at the
provincial level. The objective of the project was to provide, by September 1988, two
cycles of practical in-service training to all CSPS and CM health workers. Training was to
be provided by training units established at the provincial level. By mid-1988, 128
provincial trainers had been trained and 2,367 health workers had completed the first cycle
of training and were undergoing the second one. The impact of this training is, however,
very difficult to assess because of infrequent follow-up supervisions and the high turnover
of health personnel. The in-service training program of the project was interrupted in
1990 to be replaced by the training program in health district management for district
doctors. Under the new decentralized health system, district doctors will be responsible



9
for training and supervising the staff operating in their districts. This measure should
improve both training and supervision and make these activities more sustainable.
3.4   Beginning in 1990, the project also financed unplanned long-term training for
about 20 doctors in public health and surgery.
3.5   Construction and upgrading of about 142 centers for health and social promotion
(CSPS) and establishment of 6 new referral centers   The project financed the
construction of 158 CSPS, 16 more than originally planned. By the end of the project,
the total number of CSPS was 600, each covering, on average, about 13,000 people
(down from an average coverage of about 19,000 people in 1982). The project also
upgraded 14 medical centers (CM) by adding a unit for emergency surgery. Originally,
only 6 surgical antennae had been planned. Other donors upgraded additional 7 CM
bringing the total number of CMA to 21. The CSPS construction program experienced
considerable delays in the beginning of the project because of poor management by the
FEER and the project's inability to mobilize villagers to participate in the construction
program. The latter improved rapidly when the decision was made to have it carried out
by local private entrepreneurs.
3.6   Execution of feasibility studies to improve maintenance of health facilities and
equipment at the provincial level and to improve management of the hospital network.
The study on maintenance of health facilities was carried out through a joint effort of the
German GTZ and the project and its recommendations will be implemented under the
follow up Health and Nutrition Project. The French Cooperation became involved in the
maintenance of the two national hospitals but in the end did not carry out any
comprehensive study of the hospital sector. Such a study was recently completed as part
of the activities of the ongoing project with financing provided under the Danish Trust
Fund. Its recommendations will be implemented under the new project. To underline its
growing interest in these two issues, the MOH has recently created a new General
Directorate for Hospitals (DGES divided into two directorates: the Directorate of
Hospitals and Clinics (DHC) and the Directorate for equipment materiel and maintenance
(DEMM).
Development of National Health and Population Policies and Programs
3.7   Testing cost recovery, drug distribution and extension of village health and
nutrition systems. The purpose of these tests was to assist the Government in further
refining its national health policies and making them more explicit particularly with respect
to drug distribution, cost recovery (and associated affordability and replicability issues ),
and the extension of basic health services to villages. The Government had also agreed to
organize annual meetings with donors to review the experience in the above areas.
Although in the area of drugs, only the Boulgou cost recovery pilot operation was carried
out, considerable progress was made under the project with respect to the formulation
and implementation of national policies for cost recovery, drug distribution, and financial
autonomy of peripheral health facilities. This was largely the result of the more active
policy dialogue established between IDA and the Government in 1990. Other donors



10
increasingly participated in this dialogue and collaboration among them became very close
on these issues. The dialogue with IDA was conducted both in the context of the
supervision of the Health Services Development Project and of the preparation of the
follow up project. The two operations became closely intertwined in 1993-1994 and a
number of policy issues raised under the first project became conditionalities for the
processing of the new operation.
3.8    Village-level Health and Nutrition Activities. Field tests conducted in this area
were expected to help develop better outreach services and a supervision system linked to
the promotion of village-level health and nutrition activities. Only one pilot operation was
conducted in 1993 with respect to village nutrition services. The operation was carried out
in a number of villages in four provinces of the country and involved nutrition activities for
weaning-age children and pregnant and lactating mothers. Carried out under the
supervision of health center personnel, this operation was generally well received but
remained isolated and did not have an immediate follow-up. The Government did not
have, at that time, a comprehensive national nutrition strategy, which it elaborated only
one year later as part of the preparation of the new project. Lately, the Government also
established a national nutrition center (CNN) entrusted with carrying out the strategy and
coordinating all nutrition interventions in the country. It is expected that the results of the
1993 pilot nutrition operation will be reexamined in the context of the implementation of
the national nutrition strategy and action plan.
3.9   Establishment of a fund of US$5 million to finance the implementation of the
results of tests, feasibility and pilot studies. Inactive for a long time, the Fund was, in the
last four years of project implementation, utilized to finance, in addition to famnily planning
and village nutrition extension programs, new activities that originated from the
reorientation of the project, namely: the first year of CAMEG's operating expenses, the
technical assistance for the district doctors' training program, and the preparation of the
new Health and Nutrition and Population and AIDS Control Projects
3.10  Establishment of a Population program.  This program included demographic
analysis and population policy development, information, training, and the provision of
family planning services through the public and private sectors and voluntary associations.
The Government's reluctance to address population issues during the first years of the
project prevented the execution of any meaningful dialogue in this area and the
implementation of population-related activities. Family planning programs were also very
low key during those years. The Government's attitude vis-a-vis population issues
changed in 1990 when it became more concerned about the macroeconomic consequences
of a rapid population growth. The project's family planning program implemented in six
provinces of the country (para. 2.8) was successfully completed in 1993. IDA initiated an
important policy dialogue on population issues, which was mostly carried out in the
context of the preparation of the new Population and AIDS Control project. Important
population activities are being carried out under the new project, including a family
planning program that envisages increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate from 17
percent to 32 percent in urban areas and from 1.5 percent to 9 percent in rural areas by



11
year 1999. The project is also supporting the involvement of NGOs and private sector
organizations in the implementation of family planning programs particularly in urban
areas.
Strengthening of the Ministry of Public Health
3.11 Establishment of about 8 Provincial Directorates of Public Health (DPS); and
provision of 2 mobile epidemiological units. These targets were exceeded by the project
as 16 DPS were established.  The two epidemiological units have carried out
epidemiological surveillance in the areas of onchocerciasis, trypanosomiasis,
schistosomiasis, and meningitis, all diseases which posed a considerable threat in
numerous provinces. Lessons learned from these units are being used for expanding the
surveillance network to other diseases, including AIDS.
3.12 Strengthening health planning and project implementation services, including
preparation offuture health projects. The Government reduced the project's intervention
in this area because it preferred to use USAID's assistance under a grant fund. The
project's assistance mostly consisted of the financing of long- and short-term training for
the staff of the Planning and Studies Directorate (DEP), while USAID financed long-term
technical assistance. Largely as a result of the joint USAID/IDA support, the DEP has
become the nursing ground of MOH's cadres and leaders. The DEP played an important
role in the preparation of the Government's decentralized health strategy, which is now
being carried out by the new decentralization unit of the Directorate of Public Health
(CADSS). Strengthening of the DEP will continue under the new Health and Nutrition
Project.
B.    Summary of Financing Arrangements and Costs
3.13  Financing Arrangements and Costs. Project financing arrangements included an
IDA credit of SDR 26.9 million (US$26.6 million) and a Government contribution for
local costs of US$1.4 million equivalent.  Because the construction program was
considerably expanded as a result of project restructuring, costs increased from US$28.0
million to US$31.6 million. This amount could be accommodated under the original credit
amount due to a substantial appreciation of the SDR vis-a-vis the US dollar during the life
of the project.
3.14 Project Timetable: The credit was approved by the Board on May 20, 1985, was
signed on June 17, 1985, and became effective on January 16, 1986. The project closing
date, initially scheduled for July 31, 1991, was extended four times to December 31, 1994.
The project was executed over a nine year period compared to a projected five and a half
year period. An amount of US$800,000 was canceled. Final disbursements took place on
April 30, 1995.



12
C.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives
3.15  The reorientation of the project after the MTR was key in helping the project
achieve its objectives. The intense policy dialogue established between the Government
and the donor community on major health sector policy issues and the participation of the
Burkinabe in the design of the project's new interventions contributed to assuring a
greater ownership of the revised operation. The Government's preference for grant funds
to finance activities in the social sector, a major cause for the very slow implementation at
the beginning of the project, gave way over the years to a greater reliance on IDA
financing mainly because of a reduction in grant financing from other donors.
D.    Assessment of the Bank's and the Borrower's Performance
3.17  Through the Health Services Development Project, the Bank has made a positive
contribution to the development of the primary health care system in Burkina Faso. Both
the Government's and the Bank's attitude evolved through the implementation of the
project as more experience was acquired and the Bank, which originally had not
sufficiently focused on project implementation, started to address more vigoroulsy crucial
policy issues and pay more attention to obtaining results. The implementation period was
very long. However, one has to take into account that very little activity was carried out
under the project in the first two years of its implementation. Also, credit disbursements
were slowed considerably in 1991 as the health system was being overhauled and new
activities put in place. Following the overhaul, Credit disbursements resumed strongly and
the project remained very active until its closure.
3.18  Despite early delays in project implementation, the Borrower's performance was
satisfactory, particularly in the areas of essential generic drugs and the restructuring of the
health system. The PMU appeared to generally fulfill its responsibilities. However, in the
absence of a monitoring system under the project (there are no indicators for measuring
project performance), it is difficult to estimate the adequacy of PMU's project monitoring
activities as well as to measure the project's impact.
E.    Assessment of Project's Outcome
3.19  As a result of the restructuring that followed the MTR, the project made
considerable progress in helping the Borrower in rationalizing and improving the
effectiveness of the health care delivery system. The project also contributed to making
drugs more accessible and affordable in Burkina Faso. By promoting the financial
autonomy of peripheral health facilities it has ensured that these facilities have the means
to cover some of their operating expenses. The Health Services Development Project can
thus be classified as satisfactory in its effort to make health services more accessible to the
population.



13
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS,
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A.   Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience
4.1   The Government's increased experience in the health and population sectors and a
more intensified policy dialogue with IDA and other donors on major reforms for these
sectors had a major effect on the implementation of the project. The Government became
very concerned about the cost and the sustainability of the vertical programs supported by
its donors. It realized that it needed to depart from the existing highly centralized
structure and vertically run health programs, and to rationalize its health system both to
reduce costs and improve the quality of health services and make them more responsive to
the health needs of the population.
4.2   The introduction of some important, politically sensitive reforms (such as the
adoption of the district approach) would have benefited from a national debate in the early
stages of the process, which would have facilitated consensus building. The donors also
underestimated the limited implementation capacities of the local authorities and the need
to pace the reform process to take into account these constraints. The two units entrusted
with carrying out the decentralization process, MOH's Planning and Studies Directorate
and Decentralization Unit, were too poorly staffed to properly handle such a huge job.
Strengthening of the two units is now a priority of the Ministry and is supported by IDA
through the follow up Health and Nutrition Project.
4.3.  MOH's considerable human resources constraints prevented much quicker project
implementation. The many health sector reforms introduced in Burkina Faso in recent
years, in particular the pace of these reforms, have pushed MOH's absorptive capacity to
its limits. Considerable efforts are now being made under the new operations to strengthen
institutional capacity and the development of human resources.
4.4   With the Bank assuming a leadership role in the health sector, it would have been
advisable to strengthen the capacity of the Resident Mission to deal with the many health
sector issues and to ensure a continuous dialogue on them with the Borrower and the
donor community. While donor coordination was in general good, it experienced, at times,
some damaging breakdowns which should be avoided in the future.
B.    Future Operations and Sustainability
4.5   The Health Services Development Project supported the Government's Primary
Health Care Strategy aimed at improving the quality and accessibility of health services
particularly to the rural and urban poor. Because the disease burden is still high and a
large percentage of the Burkinabe population still has no access to modern health services,
IDA's operations in the sector continue to place emphasis on improving quality,
coverage, and affordability of health services to increase their utilization and enhance the
health status of the population. In the area of population, IDA's operations will emphasize



14
improving the quality of, and access to, family planning services integrated into maternal
and child health care, promoting IEC campaigns in health and family planning, and
encouraging private sector and NGO participation in population, family planning, and
health prograrns.
4.6   The new operations are also supporting increased efforts to mobilize grassroots
participation in the management of the health care system. They are encouraging the
Government to work with NGOs to increase civic consciousness and popular
participation. The community co-management system would need to be assessed
periodically to determine the impact of the approach in improving the quality of services
and whether beneficiaries have gained a sense of ownership of the projects.
C.    Lessons for Future projects in the Population and Health Sectors
in Burkina Faso
4.7   A first important lesson is that policy reforms should be in place prior to starting
project investments. A second lesson is that a detailed implementation plan, which also
incorporates a monitoring system and appropriate monitorable indicators, is absolutely
essential to keep track of project progress. A third lesson is that stakeholder participation
throughout the project cycle is essential to ensure a better sense of ownership and build
commitment. A fourth lesson is that future projects would need to dramatically expand
public education programs on health and population issues, in order to increase acceptance
rates.  A fifth lesson is that adequate emphasis needs to be given to institution
strengthening and human resource development. A sixth lesson is that projects in the
health and population sectors cannot be solely supervised by Headquarters. It is important
to have the Resident Mission actively involved in the policy dialogue and in project
supervision.



15
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



16
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial          NLgligibJe      NQLaaPkablk
Macro Policies                                        C-7f
Sector Policies                                                         Li                 L
Financial Objectives                                                                      E li
Institutional Development            []               Ei a]
Physical Objectives                  Ez                G                 O 
Poverty Reduction                                     Li                Li
Gender Issues                        L                                                    ri
Other Social Objectives              Li               [                 [ i
Environmental Objectives             C1               Li                 ni
Public Sector Management             Fi                                                    Li
Private Sector Developmeni           FI                                                   Ii]
Other (specify)                     Fn                n1
B. Proiect ustainabili                  Likel1y                   Unkli_ey                  Uncertain
0                         L                           Li 
Highly
C. Bank Performance                      Satisfactora           SatisfactQry                 Dt fient
Identification                       L1                                                      i 0
Preparation Assistance               L                                                     Li1
Appraisal                            Li                                                    Li
Supervision                          E]                                                    Li
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  && cient
Identification                         i                       [zI                         L
Preparation Assistance                 i                       E3                          L
Appraisal                            Li                                                    LI
Supervision                          [                                                     La



17
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit            Purpose                                        Year of Approval   Status
Preceding Operations
Cr. 1482-BUR      Perk-oa Mining Exploration & Tech. Asst.             1984         Closed
Cr. 1293-UV       K oudougou Agriculture Development                   1982         Closed
Cr. 1285-UV      | Haut- Bassins Agriculture Development               1982         Closed
Following Operations
Cr. 2728-BUR      Urban IIl                                            1995         Ongoing
Cr. 20671-BUR    Llrban II (Supplemental)                              1994         Ongoing
Cr. 2619-BUJR     Poponation4AO1DS                                     1994         Ongoing
Cr. 2592-BUR      Hea!tl & Nutritior|                                  1994         Ongoing
Cr. 2590-J3UR   I Ecc.nomic RKlcovery C'redit                          1994         Ongoing
Cr. 2519-BUR      Egingeering 'Credit                                  1 993        Ongoing
Cr. 2422-BIUR     Private Sector Assistance                            1993         Ongoing
Cr. 2414-BUR      Food Secur TN                                        1993         Ongoing
Cr. 238 1-BUR     Agricoultre SECAL                                    1992         Ongoing
Cr. 2378-BUR      Publ:;: Institution                                  1992         Ongoing
Cr. 2332-BUR      Fransport SECAL                                      1992         Ongoing
Table 3: Project lTimetable
Steps in Protect CyCle            l    Date Planned             Actual Date
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~___________ --=___________________    ____________,________
Identification (Executivc Projc  Summary)                              August 1982
Preparation                                     j                      August 1982-May 1984
_~~~~~~~-          -  - -   .    1    _ _ _ _   1                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
.                                               ~~~~~~~      ~     ~ ~~~~Mav 1984I
Appralsal                                                              M
Negotiations                                                           March 1985
Boar Preentati'on                                                   June 11, 1985
Board._   ____ _._.-_ __                         __ _ _ __ _       _    j,n l,,   1 985 OC  
Signing                                        l  .                               E,
Effes.Iiveness                                   October 1985          Januarv 3, 1986
Credit Closini Ju- 31. 1991                                            December 31, 1994



18
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
.______________   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89  FY90   FY91   FY92  FY93   FY94   FY95
Appraisal estimate        2.39    3.73    5.32    5.85   5.59    3.72
Actual                    1.61    0.78    3.44    3.36   6.66    1.97    5.65   2.35    5.54    4.12
Actual as % of estimated    67.4   20.9   64.7   57.4   117.4  50.3        ==
Date of final disbursement                                April 30, 1995



TABLE :1: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
SUBJECT                                                   PROGRAM                                                 ACHIEVEMENTS
A. Strengthening Basic Hlealth and FP        (a) Rehabilitation of 20 mobile teams:                                   (a) Implemented
services                                     (b) Rehabilitation of 30 Urban Vaccination Centers                       (b) Implemented
A.]. Immunization and Malaria               (c) Provide vaccines, cold chain equipment and storage facilities and   (c) Implemented
Programs                                     operating cost in 15 provinces
I. Immunization                     (a) provide adequate amount of chloroquine for two year period. Tablets to  (a) Implemented, self supporting program now
be sold at a price sufficient to establish a 3clf supporting program    taken over by CAMEG
2. Malaria programs
A.2 In-service rraining                     (a) establishing a core unit responsib. For planning and coordinaling and    (a) Core unit installed, provincial trainers
to train 30 teams of provincial trainers;                               trained
(b) TA to assist the core unit in hand-out materials and develop six courses
(organization and management Of primary health care. 1. maternal and    (h) Materials developed h  DFP
child hcalth and 1:1 sanita(ion; detection and treatment of malnutrition/
control of infectious and parasitic diseases; prescription and use of essential
drugs);
(c) 1000 paramedicals to be trained over the life of the project. i.e. 2  (c) 2367 workers trained by 1990
complete cycle in each province:                                        Program interrupted in 1990 because of
restructuring or training program at the district
level.
A.3. Upgrading of Dispensaries to CSPi    (a) Renovate 54 health facilities and replace or enlarge 88 facilities, all  (a) 158 CSPS build or restored and equipped
Facilities                                   provided with year round water facilities (boring of wells of boreholes)  Total was of 602 in 1992
equipped with a refrigerator and a motorhike for supervision, plus housilig
for the head nirse:
(b) Build 6 referral centers (antennae with emergency surgery capabilities)  (b) 14 referral centers build and fully equipped



SUBJECT                                                 PROGRAM                                               ACHIEVEMENTS
A.4. Feasibility studies                   (a) 4 PM of TA to conduct feasibility study and proposals to improve the  (a) Impiemented under follow-up projet.
management of the hospital network;
(b) 4 PM of TA to conduct feasibility study to improve maintenance of  (b) Implemented under follow-up projet.
health facilities
B. Development of National Health and      (a) 24 PM of TA needs assessments, and policy formulation, procurement    (a) Implemented
Population Policies and Programs            planning, training in stock management. preparation of a drug formulary,
study the role of the private sector, test alternative mechanisms for
B.I. Operational Field Research           improved delivery, etc..
(b) 6 PM of TA for a program to inform the public about the Government   (b) Implemented
1. Drug Distribution               essential drug policy; and
(c) TA to provide to the DEP to help them undertake special studies in  (c) Implemented                                   o
drug distribution in lloulgou
2. Cost Recovery                   (a) Tests appropriate costs recovery mechanisms at each level,         (a) Implemented
(h) Assess the organi7ational and management requirements of partial cost-  (b) Implemented ulider the followt up protect.
recovery:
(c) Determine the cost of providing adequate primnary health care at CSI'S   (c) Impleimieinied under the follow up pro jcct.
ands reerral levels. and;
(d) P'rovide scenarios of the share of thie state budget, provincial hudgct  (d) Not ilpimiilented.
and the financial contribution of beneficiaries
3. Village Level I lealth and Nutritic n  (a) Tests the organizational and managerial requirements of the CSPS with  (a) Proposal of a nutrition survey by Prof
Activities                         regard to outreach and supervision and referral;                      Hlayward (1989).
(b) Promote what kinds of health and nutrition services could appropriately  (b) Four small nutrition programs in 4 provinces
be provided by villagers, setting up Health Committees, improving     conducted between 1993 and 1995.
preventive activities in the catchment area. Studies to be completed by
Year 2
p~~~~



ACHIEVEMENTS
SUBJECT                                                 PROGRAM
13.2. FUND to implement the results of
feasibility and operational field research,
including in Population and FP studies
B.3. Establishment of a Population          (a) 6 PM TA feasibility study to upgrade 8 maternity facilities in Ouaga and  (a) Study implemented but construction not
Program                                     Bobo                                                                  carried out following ic7tructuring.
(b) TA to training to the National Institute of Statistics and Demographics    (b) Not implementcd
to analyze national census data, disseminate demographic information and
do a survey of contraceptive practices
(c) I.E.C. component to test, evaluate and disseminate population related  (c) Not implemented
messages in local languages
(d) Training component training of trainYers in MCII and FP and 15 in-  (d) Implemented in the follow up project.
country seminars for nurses, midwives on FP methods/short-term training
of 15 physicians in fertility management/in-country training in
contraceptive commodities management and logistics:
(e) strengthening thie 2 nalional hospitals to become Fl' referral    (c) Impliemeniie
centers/assistance to the development of a FP clinic at AB3LEF/provision of
FP commodities (all this compiementary to the USAID program)
Strengthening the Ministry of llealth      (a) provide facilities to house the staff and in-service training in 8 provinces  (a) Implemented
C. 1. Construction
(b) provide two mobile units for epidemiological surveillance in the Comoe  (b) Implemented
and Blulkiemde provinces
(.2. Strengthening the DEPSS              (a) entrusting the DEPSS with start-up activities and with organizing and
(complementary to USAIt) project)           evaluating pilot studies                                              (c) Partially implemented



22
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                    Purpose as defined at                       Status               Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Cost Recovery       Test the possibility of introducing cost        Completed              Study reinforced need to
recovery and willingness of the population                             introduce lower cost
to pay.                                                                drugs in the market.
Village Nutrition   Test village level appropriateness.             Completed              Impact not great because
Activities                                                                                 at that time there was no
national nutritional
l___________________   _____________________________________________J                        strateg y .



2 
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal                                           Actual/
Estimate                                            Latest
(US$M)                                              Estimate
l________    _________     (US$M )
Local       Foreign      Total         Local        Foreign      Total
Costs       Costs                     Costs         Costs
Civil Works                 9.6          9.6                        16.3        16.3
Furniture/                  5.6          5.6                       13.5         13.5
Equipment
Chloroquine                 0.2          0.2                       0.5          0.5
Operating      1.34         0.9          2.24         1.34         1.8          3.2
Costs
Technical                   1.8          1.8                       2.5          2.5
Assistance
PPF                        .82           0.82                      0.3          0.3
Sub-projects                5.0          5.0               .       0.5          0.5
Unallocatedl
Uaot          2.68         2.68                      0            0
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                             (US$M)
Source            Local      Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign       Total
_______ __  Costs   Costs                   Costs      Costs
IBRD/IDA                      9.6         17.0       26.6         1.0      34.5       35.5
Domestic
Contributions                 1.4                     1.4        1.3                    1.3
Total                        11.0J        17.0       28.0        2.3       34.5        36.8



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
SELECTION NO. OF                  COVENANT                    STATUSI:             COMMENTS                    ACTION TAKEN OR
CREDIT/LOAN                                               M=Met                                                  REQUIRED
AGREEMENT                                                NM=Met
P=Not Met
2.02                   Open and maintain in CFAF a special       M
account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions stisfactory to IDA
3.03                   Annually: (i) o-ganize a meeting of all   M                                         Review of IDA investments in the
aid agencies pErticipating in the                                                   health sector carried out in the
financing of th.- Borrower's primary                                                context of SAL I, the 1993 PER
care policy; (ii) review with IDA                                                   and PFP's
investments made in the health sector
during the pre% ious year and expected to
be made during the next year.
3.05                   Furnish quartet ly progress reports       M
3.06                   Establish revolving fund to support       M
primary care st:rvicqs, including
replenishment 3f the choroquine for
anti-malaria pragram.
4.01 (b)               Have consolidated accounts of PMU          M
separate accou its of FEER, special
account, local idvance account, audited
each fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA.
Schedule 3 (9)         FEER will obtain the full-time services   M        In spite of the compliance with the  Construction program move on
of an accountant and initially of 2                Credit Agreement covenant,       quickly after decision were taken
qualified site supervisors. The Ministry           FEER's performance was not very  to award contracts to private
of Equipment o make the services of a              satisfactory. Government decided   enterprises.
qualified engil eer or building technician         to turn remainder of construction
available to Fl.ER.                                program to private enterprises.



SELECTION NO. OF                   COVENANT                    STATUS                COMMENTS                     ACTION TAKEN OR
CREDIT/LOAN                                                M=Me(                                                    REQUIRED
AGREEMENT                                                 NM=Met
P=Not Met
Schedule 3 (10)        FEER to prep.re an annual work              M
program for It(A's review. Such
program will i iclude a report of
progress durin the previous year, the
status of site surveys and community
mobilization, ipdated cost estimates and
an account of Ihe relationship of the
annual prograw l to the master plan.
Schedule 3 (14)        The Borrower shall present the results of   M        A cost recovery study was         Implementation of a family
studies, experiments and tests referred to           completed in March 1991 and an    planning component based on the
in para. 13 an( in part A(4), to IDA by             evaluation report was produced in  recommandations of the feasibility
March 31, 19F8, for its review and                   August 1991. Feasibility study   study, started in early 1989.
comments; anc.                                      for strengthening delivery of     Nutrition Action plans for four
family planning services was     provinces were implemented by
completed in 1988. Studies on    the Provincial Healith Directorates
village-level health and nutrition    in 1992-94.
activities were completed in
November 1989.
Schedule 3 (15)        By Dec. 31, 1985, present (i) a plan for    M        Putting in place a more effective    Since 1991, action taken include:
strengthening national drug procurement              pharmaceutical policy started only  (i) revision of pharmaceutical
and distributicn; and (ii) an official list         in 1991.                          regulation (1992); (ii)
of pharmaceut cal products in                                                         establishment of central buying
conformity wi:h WHO's essential dnig                                                  agency for essential generic drugs
guidelines. B t June 30, 1986, (i)                                                    (1992); (iii) allowing peripheral
publish a new national drug formalary                                                 health facilities to retain the
based on such list; (ii) create a                                                     revenues from the sale of drugs
pharmaceutical information service in                                                 (1993).
the Ministry cf Health; and (iii) carry
out a program to inform the public about
essential drug policy.



26
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of          Actual Staff
Project Cycle          Weeks
Preparation to appraisal      30
Appraisal                     4
Negotiation through           8
Board approval
Supervision                  149
Completion                    7
TOTAL                       198



27
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
rating
Stage of                 Nmber  Days  Spcialized
project        Month}' of          in     staff skills         Impl.    Dev.
cycle          Year    persns   field  reprsented             status     obj.   Types of Problems
Supervision    11/85        2        5    TM                   I
4/86        2        15    TM                  I          I
8-9/86      2        16    TM                  I          1
7/87         1       3    TM                              I      Dela% s in construction works
9-10/87      1       16    TM                  I
2/88         1       5    TM                   I          I
Mid Term       9-10/        4       14    TM; Pub. Hlth.
Evaluation     88                         Spec.: Pharm.
Spec.
11/89       1        5    TM                   2         2       High turnover/ Resistance to generic
drugs policy
4-5/90       1       12    TM                  2          2      Turover of MSPAS personnel/
Resistance to Generic drugs
10-         4       20    TM; Consult. (2:    2           2
11/90                      Hlth. Spec..
Pharm. Spec.):
AFTPH (1)
5/91        3        14    TM                  3          3      Lack of essential drug policy/ lack of
Consult. (2: Hlth.                    training
Spec.. Pharm.
_______ __  Spec.)
11/91       3        14    TM:                 2         2       Generic drugs, cost recovery
Consult. (2: Hith.
Spec.. Pharm.
Spec.)
Supervision    3-4/92       4       24    TM: Oncho           2          2      Generic drugs, District health
Preparation                               Coordinator                           system. Cost recovery
of 2 other                                Consult. (2: Hlth.
projects                                  Spec.. Pharm.
Spec.)
Supervision    5-6/92       4       18    TM: Consult. (3:    2          2      CAMEG, District Health system
(2 Hlth. Spec..
Pharm. Spec)
Supervision    9-10/92      1       12    TM                  2          2      Turnover at MS.AS, resistance to
Preparation                                                                     generic drugs policy,
of 2 other                                                                      Decentralization
pro jects
_~ ~ .  . _                                              =        = .-             






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1607-BUR)
SUMMARY OF THE GOVERNMENT'S REPORT
1.   In its report the Government emphasizes its lack of experience in implementing a
large-scale project and its concern that the country's financial constraints may hinder its
ability to obtain the financial resources needed to cover the recurrent costs of the facilities
and services introduced by the project. In the absence of pre-established monitorable
indicators, the Government decided to use the expected project outputs, as specified in the
Staff Appraisal Report, as proxy for these indicators. The Government estimated that
objective No.1, strengthening of the basic health care system, was 95 percent achieved,
while objective No. 2, development of policies and programs for health and population,
was only 50 percent achieved. Objective No. 3, strengthening of the Ministry of Health,
was fully achieved as a result of IDA and USAID intervention. On the whole, the
Government feels that the project attained 81 percent of its objectives.
2.    The report lists a number of originally unplanned activities, which were executed
under the project, including the construction of the training center for district doctors, the
extension of the Public Health School; the equipping of four regional hospitals, and the
digging of 75 wells in rural health facilities.
3.    Among the constraints that have contributed to impeding project implementation,
the report mentions cumbersome procurement procedures, the considerable role initially
played by the FEER in the project's construction program, cumbersome IDA procedures
for financing the project and replenishing the Special Account, delays in the provision of
Government counterpart funds, delays by executing agencies in carrying out their
activities, and contradictory advice provided by IDA.
4.    The report indicates that IDA provided continuous and satisfactory assistance to
the project throughout its implementation. With regard to the Government's performance,
the monitoring and coordinating activities of the project's management unit were
negatively affected by a lack of coordination among the different executing agencies, poor
understanding of expectations placed upon them, FEER's inadequate procurement
procedures, and the inadequate amount of subsistence paid to Ministry staff while on
training and supervision (a strong disincentive in the report's view).
5.    While the report does not discuss the project's restructuring process in order to
better achieve project objectives, it mentions as activities for the future: the completion of
the ongoing decentralization of the health system, the need to elaborate a hospital sector
strategy, and the need to implement population and nutrition interventions integrating the
participation of both the public and private sectors.  The report emphasizes that all
activities are being carried out in the context of the follow up Health and Nutrition
Project.



MINISTERE DE LA SANTE                                BURKINA FASO
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
PROJET DEVELOPPEMENT DES SERVICES
DE SANTE BP.7062 TEL. 30.86.11
RAPPORT DE FIN DE PROJET
-emD"-.obj du 26/LZ/1994



TABLE DES MATIERES
I.   RESUME DU PROJET
Paces
1.1  - Objectifs et composantes   .               . . . . .   1
1.2  - B&nifices attendus   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
1.3    -  Risques  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
II.  ETAT DE REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS
2.1  - Crit&res d'appr&ciation  . . . . ..3
2.2  - Etat d'atteinte des Objectifs  . . . . . . . . . . .  4
2.3    -  Commentaires  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   10
III. MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
3.1  - Cadre General  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
3.2  - Facteurs favorisants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
3.3 - Contraintes ..11
3.4  - Performances de la Banque Mondiale . . . . . . . .   11
3.5  - Performances du Gouvernement   . . . . . . . . . . . 12
IV.  CONCLUSION
4.1  - Evaluation des resultats   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
4.2  - Perpectives d'avenir.              .13
aatiwc.obj du '612f 1994



CGP       =    Cellule de Gestion du Projet
CSPS            Centre de Sante et de Promotion Sociale
CHR             Centre Hospitalier R&gional
DAAF      =    Direction  des   Affaires   Administratives   et
financieres
DEP       =    Direction des Etudes et de la Planification
DFP       =    Direction de la Formation Professionnelle
DGAHC           Direction Generale de 1'Architecture, de 1'Habitat
et de la Construction
DMP             Direction de la M&decine Preventive
DPS       =    Direction Provinciale de la Sante
DSF       =    Direction de la Sant6 de la Famille
DSPh      =    Direction des Services pharmaceutiques
ENSP      =    Ecole Nationale de Sante Publique
FEER      =    Fonds de l'Eau et de l'Equipement Rural
IDA       =    Association-Internationale de Developpement
ONMP      =    Office National des Marches Publics
PEV       =    Programme Elargi de Vaccination
PDSN      =    Projet de Developpement Sant& et Nutrition
PDSS      =    Projet Developpement des Services de Sante



T.   RESUME DU CREDIT ET DU PROJET DEVELOPPEMENT DES SERVICES
DE SANTE
Sign& le 17 Juin 1985, l'accord de cr6dit pour le
financement du Projet Developpement des Services de Sante (PDSS)
& 6t6 mis en vigueur le 16 Janvier 1986 sous le numero 1607 BUR.
EMPRUNTEUR      : BURKINA FASO
BENEFICIAIRE   : Ministere de la Sant6
MONTANT         : 26,9 Millions de DTS (somme 6quivalente A
28 Millions de Dollars).
1.1 - OBJECTIFS ET COMPOSANTES DU PROJET  : Les principaux
objectifs visaient a :
a)   renforcer les  soins de sante de base et las
services de planification familiale, en mettant
tout d'abord l'accent sur le controle des maladies
transmissibles et le traitement du paludisme ;
b)   expliciter les politiques nationales en mati&re
de sante et de population et favoriser leur
r&alisation ;
C)   renforcer   la   capacit&   institutionnelle  du
Ministere de la sante en matiere de planification
et d'evaluation des op6rations, la mise en oeuvre
et la supervision des projets.
Les composantes du Projet. sont :
-    travaux de genie-civil
Construction et/ou renovation de Cent Quarante
Deux (142) CSPS avec leur 6quipement ;
Construction de Huit (8) Directions Provinciales
de la Sante
Construction de  six  (6) Centres de r6f6rence
(Antennes Chirurgicales) ;
-    Extension du Programme  Elargi de Vaccination dans
quinze (15) Provinces ;  -
= -;io     :,ou'r_ da"'-n  rogramme national AP traitement
du Paludisme par la chloroquinotherapie des acces aigus
palustres ;
-    Developpement au niveau provincial d'un programme de
recyclage centre sur les soins de sante primaires ;
Experimentation des syst&mes de recouvrement des coats
et mise en application des resultats d6coulant des
etudes de faisabilit6 ;
Etablissement   d'un   programme   de   planification
familiale,  de sante maternelle et infantile et de
nutrition ;



2
-    Mise en place de deux (2) equipes mobiles de lutte et
de surveillance de la trypanosomiase ;
-    Appui  a  la  nouvelle  politique  pharmaceutique  du
Ministere de la Sante.
1.2 - BENEFICES
Les beneffices attendus par le projet etaient les suivants:
-    amelioration de la qualite et de l'accessibilite des
services de sante et de planification familiale
destines a plus de 4 Millions de personnes (soit plus
de la moitie de la population totale du pays).
-    Protection effective de Soixante pour cent (60%)) des
enf ants de 0 a 4- ans qui seront effectivement proteges
contre les principales maladies transmissibles de
lenfance.
3    Amelioration  des  competences  et  des  performances
d'environ 1 000 agents de sante travaillant en zones
rurales.
Les perspectives du projet impliquent que les
medicaments   essentiels   seront   plus   largement
disponibles et a un moindre coi2t, dans l'ensemble du
pays, tandis qu'un systeme de recouvrement partiel des
coats sera etendu au secteur de la sante. Le programme
de planification familiale qui commence a se developper
sera consolide. Les ameliorations en matiere de
formulation d'une politique de sante, de planification
et de coordination des aides faisaient partie des
effets benefiques qui devaient decouler de ce projet.
1.3 - RISOUES :
Les risques identifies lors de l'&laboration du projet
6taient lies en grande partie au fait que le Ministere de
la Sante n'avait pas l'experience de la realisation d'un
y    t "Ae catt:. c-::rgur2e et   '-^-  i" i   rn. a la fin
du projet, les contraintes &conomiques du Burkina pourraient
mettre le Gouvernement dans l'impossibilite de supporter
entierement la charge des frais recurrents.
Pour minimiser ces risques, des mesures de limitation et de
recouvrement des couts devaient etre prises dans le cadre
de l'execution de ce projet. Par ailleurs, des consultations
frequentes entre l'IDA et le Gouvernement devaient
dfeterminer les demarches & entreprendre pour mobiliser des
ressources supplmentaires destinees au secteur de la sante,
afin d'aider le Gouvernement & faire face aux charges des
frais recurrents.



3
II. ETAT DE REALISATION DES OBJECTIPS
2.1 - CRITERES D'APPRECIATION
En l'absence de crit&res d'6valuation pr6-6tablis, lon peut
se ref6rer & certains indicateurs transparaissant dans la
description proprement dite du projet.
Les  tableaux  suivants  permettent  d'appr6cier  l'&tat
d'atteinte des objectifs initiaux.
2.2 - ETAT D'ATTEINTE DES OBJECTIFS
Les tableaux N1 A 4 r6capitulent l'etat d'atteinte des objectifs.



4
TABI.EAU N1. ETAT D'ATTEINTE DE L'OBJECTIF NO1
_ _ _ _ _ _
Objectif No.   : Renforcer les services de sante de base et de
planification familiale
COMPOSANTES  |OBJECTIFS       ETAT DES       TAUX DE    COMMENTAIRES
DU PROJET    SPECIFIQUES  REALISATIONS  REALISA-
TION
1) Extension du  Quinze (15)  Douze (12)                    Action menee par d'autres partenaires
Programme         provinces      provinces           80%    sur les 3 autres provinces
6largi de
vaccination
2) Lancement      A              Programme                  Deux appels d'offres ont permis
d'un programme   d6velopper   d6veloppe                     d'acqu6rir les stocks de chloroquine
national de                      avec systeme        100%   au profit de la DSPH.
traitement du                    de                         Chaque formation
paludisme par                    recouvrement               sanitaire s'approvisionnait aupres de
la chloroquine                   des coOts                  la DSPh et les recettes gen6rees par
la vente leur permettaient de
poursuivre 1loperation.
3) Recyclage en  6 themes 2   6 themes                      Une evaluation a ete faite par une
soins de sante   fois par an  d6veloppes                    equipe de l'ancienne Direction de la
primaires du                     au moins une               Formation Professionnelle (DFP).
personnel de                     fois par an
sante des                                                   Un fascicule de synthese de
provinces                                                   l'lvaluation est disponible



5
COMPOSANTES DU   OBJECTIFS       ETAT DES       TAUX DE
PROJET            SPECIFIQUES  REALISATIONS  REALISA-         COMMENTAIRES
TION
4) Construire    Cent            158                 111%   Confere contraintes
et/ou renover    Quarante        construits
et equiper des   Deux (142j   et 6quipes
CSPS              CSPS
5) Construire     Six (6)        14 centres         116%    reallocation des fonds du cr6dit
et equiper des   Centres de   de                            restant
centres de        r6ference:;   references
ref6rences                       developp6s
6) Etudes de      executer       Aucune              0%     aspects reportes a plusieurs reprises
faisabilite sur  les etudes                                 car absence de politiques'et
la  gestion,                                                strategies nationales en la matiere.
1'installation
du materiel et                                              La non decentralisation de la gestion
la gestion du                                               rendait ces aspects secondaires.
r6seau
hospitalier
En conclusion   I'atteinte de l'objectif NO 1 est estime a 95%.



6
TABLEAU NO 2 : ETAT D'ATTEINTE DE L'OBJECTIF N*2
Objectif No. :! : Developper des politiques et programmes de sante
et population.
COMPOSANTES      OBJECTIFS         ETAT DES REALISATIONS   TAUX DE
DU PROJET         SPECIFIQUES                                REALISATION    COMMENTAIRES
1) Systeme de    Experimenter      Initie et experimente          100%       Resultat utilise dans
recouvrement      le syst6me de   au Boulgou                                 la mise en oeuvre de
des coQts         recouvrement                                               l'initiative de
des cofts                                                  Bamako.
2) Systeme de    a experimenter  uniquement pour le                          Pour le volet
distribution de                    systeme de                                nutrition des
m6dicaments et                     distribution du                           documents ont 6te
d'extension des                    medicament dans le                        produits par des
programmes de                      Bou lgou                                  consultants mais ce
sante et                                                                     volet n'a pas 6te mis
nutrition                                                                    en oeuvre.
3) Resultats      a appliquer      Etudes sur le                             Les 6tudes de
des etudes de                      recouvrement des coOts                    faisabilite n'ayant
faisabilite                        et distribution Lie                       pas 6t6 developp6es
medicaments dans                         dans tous les
1'etude du Boulgou                       domaines,leurs
font partie des                          resultats ne peuvent
e16ments de ref6rences                   etre appliques.
pour la mise en oeuvre
de l'I.B.
4) Analyse        a mettre en      Debut d'ex6cution des                     les plans des
demographique    place             activites de formation                    activites ont ete
en matiere de                            elabores avec l'appui
population                              de consultants



7
COMPOSANTES       OBJECTII'S       ETAT DES REALISATIONS   TAUX DE
DU PROJET         SPECIFIQUES                                REALISATION    COMMENTAIRES
5) services de   a d6velopper    Uniquement au niveau                        Secteur priv6 n'a pas
planification                      du secteur public                         6te impliqu6 dans le
familiale.                                                                   financement du PDSS.
En conclusion   l'atteintE de l'objectif N02 est estim6 a 50%



8
'.ABLEAU N03 : ETAT D'ATTEINTE DE L'OBJECTIF N*3
Objectif No. 3 : Renforcement du Hinistere de la Sante.
COMPOSANTES        OBJEC"'IFS           ETAT DES             TAUX DE
DU PROJET          SPECII'IQUES         REALISATIONS         REALISATIONS        COMMENTAIRES
1) Construction   8 DPS pr6vues         16 construites            200%           CoOt pr6vu pour 8
des Directions                                                                   DPS a permis
Provinciales de                                                                   finalement d'en
la Sant6 (DPS)                                                                   r6aliser 16
2) Mise en place  02 Uni.tes            02 mises en place         100%
d'unit6s           6pid6rmiologiques
epid6miologiques  prescrites
3) Renforcement   DEP/S/.NTE            DEP equip6e en            100%           En collaboration
des services de                         mat6riel                                  avec l'USAID
planification                           informatique,                             (cofinancement)
sanitaire et                            logistique et
d'execution des                         frais de
projets                                 supervision de la
zone d'6tude
4) Assistance      PDSS coit fournir    N6ant                                    car Intervention
technique a        cette assistance                                              de l'USAID
fournir a la DEP  technJque
En conclusion   l'atteinta de 1lobjectif N03 est estime a 100%



9
TABLEAU N4 : ACTIVITES NON PREVUES ET REALIBEES
COMPOSANTES RAJOUTEES  ETAT DES REALISATIONS  TAUX DE                   COMMENTAIRES
REALISATION
1) Forages              75 Forages equip6s de                         Tous ces forages ont ete
pompes manuelles                             r6alis6s dans les Formations
Sanitaires afin d'assurer
leur approvisionnement en
eau potable.
2) Equipement de CHR   4 CHR equipes
.____________________________  __________ _ .Le PDSS a et6 prorog6 a 4
3)Construction du       En cours par FASO                             reprises et suite a la
centre de formation    BAARA                                          r6allocation des fonds du
des ni6decins de                                                      cr6dit restant par la Banque
districts                                                             Mondiale, ces nouveaux
volets non pr6vus
initialement ont 6te pris en
4) Construction de      achev6e                                       compte.
l'annexe de 1'ENSP



10
2.3. COMMENTAIRES
Il ressort des diff6rents tableaux que tous les volets n'ont
pas 6t5 rdalis&s en totalite sur fonds PDSS.
Le PDSS a respecte les activit6s ayant obtenu d'autres
financements par 1'intermediaire d'autres partenaires du
Ministere de la Sante.
1II. MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
3.1. *Cadre General
Les  organes d'execution du  PDSS  sont les   Directions
techniques du Ministere de la Sante sous la coordination de la
Cellule de Gestion du Projet (CGP).
La CGP est compose. de onze (11) membres ainsi repartis
- Direction    = 2 membres
- Comptabilite = 2
- Secretariat  = 2
- Chauffeurs   = 2
- Gardiens     = 2
- Planton      = 1.
Les organes d'execution sus-mentionn6s sont
- DSF = Volet SMI/PF/NUTRITION
- Service PEV de la DSF = Volet Vaccination
- DMP = Volet devolution e1argie
- DSPh = Volet appui a la politique pharmaceutique
- DEP = Volet formation longue duree et d6centralisation
- DAAF = Volet gestion du personnel, des infrastructures et
equipements
- Equipe des Formateurs Centraux = Volet formation des
Medec1ns ae alstricts en yeb.i
- FEER ET DGAHC = Volet Genie civil
- ONMP = Passation des marches.
La cl6ture du PDSS a 6t6 reportee A quatre reprises pour
voir son nouveau terme fixe au 31 decembre 1994. Ces reports
successifs avaient pour but de permettre l'utilisation du montant
restant du credit (1607 BUR).



De nombreux facteurs ont influence la mise en oeuvre du
projet dont nous ne citerons que quelques uns.
3.2. *Facteurs favorisants
-    stabilite du personnel de la Cellule de Gestion du
Projet (CGP) permettant de mieux comprendre les
procedures de la Banque Mondiale.
Ainsi en Neuf (9) ans, la CGP n'a connu que deux
Directeurs
et deux (2) Administrateurs. Les autres membres n'ont
pas change.
-    Existence de manuel de procedures des dossiers de la
Banque Mondiale
-    Supervisions regulieres des activites par les missions
de la Banque Mondiale.
-    Autonomie de fonctionnement accord6e par le Minist4re
de la Sante a la CGP
3.3. *Les contraintes
Lourdeurs des procedures de passation des Marches
II faut en g6n6ral douze (12) mois pour acquerir des
6quipements par appel d'offres international.
-    La procedure en regie utilisee au depart par le FEER
a occasionn6 de nombreuses malfagons ou des retards
importants.
-    La  lourdeur  des  procedures  de  financement  ou
reapprovisionnement du compte special.
-    Les retards de paiement de la contrepartie Nationale
par le tresor public.
-    Les reactions  tardives  ou incompletes de certains
organes d'execution.
-    Les frequentes contradictions de la Banque Mondiale
elle-meme sur des dossiers qu'elle a au prealable
approuves.
3.4. *Les performances de la Banque Mondiale
A compter de la phase initiale de preparation du projet,
puis de son evaluation et de la supervision, l'action
de la Banque Mondiale a ete permanente et satisfaisante.



12
3.5.*Performances du couvernement
Les organes d'ex6cution du PDSS n'ont pas toujours permis
d'atteindre  les  objectifs.   Quelques  raisons  peuvent
expliquer cet etat de fait
-    insuffisance de concertation A un certain moment entre
la CGP at les organes d'ex6cution
-    incompr6hension des tAches & accomplir par les organes
d'ex6cution
-    m6thodes de passation des Marches du FEER inadaptees
-    taux  de prise  en  charge  de  frais  de mission  a
l'interieur jug6 faible.
-__- _



13
VI. CONCLUSION
4.1) EVALUATION DES RESULTATS
En nous referant  aux  indicateurs 6tablis pour la
realisation des composantes, l'atteinte globale des
objectifs du PDSS en fin de projet est estim6e & 81%
et le taux de d6caissement a la meme p6riode de 96%
Ces  resultats  sont  tr&s  satisfaisants  et  ont
certainement contribu6 au renforcement du syst&me
national de sante.
4.2) PERPECTIVES D'AVENIR
A la lumiere des resultats du PDSS, certaines activit6s
doivent etre r&alisees pour renforcer les acquis du
Projet.
ces activit6s se regroupent en majeure partie dans les
composantes non executees qui font que les objectifs
ne pourront jamais etre atteints & 100%. Ce sont :
-    Les  etudes  de  faisabilite  sur  la  gestion  des
installations, du materI.el et du reseau hospitalier.
Ces actions meritent amplement d'etre d6velopp6es dans
un second projet.
-    La decentralisation de la gestion du systeme de sant6
publique au niveau des ressources humaines, financieres
et materielles.
Le developpement des politiques de population et de
nutrition par l'intermediaire des structures publiques
et privees.
La    d2.i;aaiOi  e 2 ces  trois  gran'c.  acti.n5s est
indispensable pour completer l'action du PDSS.
Un nouveau projet intitule Projet Developpement Sante
et Nutrition (PDSN), qui a pris amplement en compte
ces aspects sera bientot mis en vigueur.






4'                                   2'                                    Or                '                  2
BURKINA FASO                                                          ,                              i           K
Roads                                            * ~ '                 Gorom-Gorom o      \
*      Railroads                          ' ~          I                                            '
Rivers                                                 0 Dlibo
14'                                                                                                   O1-
0   Seleded Tons                                                                                                        NIGER
   National Capital                                                                     |
- - -International Boundaries      j             ah,gouya
J                    Toug                                    oa              
\   .,    J   Yakt         1> \      Bogande o               - 
r         g  9        i  5                     z     A          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fada N''Gaurrna             "  I
_   58u   KG   S   I '    ->(           Kombissiri 0   . L                      a                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DiapagaS  * 
No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
,,         .                          (                    C, 20        g .s>         Tenkodogo    .,r,,.,,,>            /"ououo  )U
ne~~~~~~~~~~b oOc                                                 AGADO             Ko la-                   /r
*                                                                                   F       N Goura
o               ~~~~~~~~COTE  DIIVeIRE           \   t2                                                  'S                                                 C
-12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5









--  !v.,                           Fl
r, r
I-I
'-- - '5 ;                         '1
!w 1_1f
f..r
Cr.r
=l



